RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth below (See—Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements prior to Item 1. Business). Risks Related to the Economy and Market Conditions Current difficult economic conditions and market turmoil may reduce demand for our products and increase credit risks. Current market turmoil and difficult economic conditions, including actual and potential job losses among many sectors of the economy, significant declines in real estate values, large losses to consumer retirement and investment accounts, increases in food and fuel prices and uncertainty regarding federal tax and economic policies have resulted in reduced consumer confidence and curtailed consumer spending. If these economic conditions persist or deteriorate further, we expect that convenience retail operators will experience continued weakness and further reductions in same store sales, which will adversely affect demand for our products and will result in reduced sales and pressures on margins. This may have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. These economic and market conditions, combined with continuing difficulties in the credit markets and the resulting pressures on liquidity may also place a number of our convenience retail customers under financial stress, which would increase our credit risk and potential bad debt exposure. Our business is sensitive to general economic conditions and, in particular, to gasoline prices and the labor market. Our operating results are also sensitive to, and may be adversely affected by, other factors, including inflation, competitive price pressures, severe weather conditions and unexpected increases in fuel or other transportation-related costs. Due to the low margins on the products we distribute, changes in general economic conditions could materially adversely affect our operating results. Two particular economic factors may have a significant impact on our sales, margins and costs. First, our retailers have reported to us that when gasoline prices increased they have experienced a decrease in the proportion of their customers’ expenditures on food/non-food products compared to customers’ expenditures on cigarettes. When gasoline prices undergo sustained increases and a similar shift in expenditures results, we experience pressure on our sales and gross margins since sales of food/non-food products result in higher margins than sales of cigarettes do. Second, our results are sensitive to the labor market. For example, the strength of the employment market in the transportation sector has led to a shortage of qualified drivers in some areas, increasing our costs as we are required to use more temporary drivers and increase wages for permanent drivers in the affected areas. Shortages of qualified warehouse and other employees could similarly increase our costs. Historically, we have been able to pass on a substantial portion of increases in our own fuel costs to our customers in the form of fuel surcharges, but our ability to continue to pass through price increases, either from manufacturers or costs incurred in the business, including labor and fuel costs, is not assured. 10 Table of Contents As a result of recent recessionary economic conditions and financial market turmoil, our pension plan is currently underfunded and we will be required to make cash payments to the plan, reducing the cash available for our business. We sponsored a qualified defined-benefit pension plan and a post-retirement benefit plan for employees hired before September 1986. We record a liability associated with these plans equal to the excess of the benefit obligation over the fair value of plan assets. The benefit liability recorded under the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158 “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans,” at December 31, 2008 was $34.9 million for the pension plan. Our pension plan’s underfunded status increased from approximately $4.0 million in 2007 to approximately $12.8 million in 2008. The primary reason for this increase in the underfunding status of the plan from 2007 to 2008 is due to a lower return than expected on invested plan assets as of December 31, 2008 compared to December 31, 2007 as a result of the recent economic downturn and financial market turmoil. The amount of the estimated contributions is expected to increase in 2010 due, in part, to the underperformance of the plan assets relative to our expectations given the overall market downturn during 2008. If the performance of the assets in the plan does not meet our expectations, or if other actuarial assumptions are modified, our future cash payments to the plan could be substantially higher than we expect. The pension plan is subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or ERISA. Under ERISA, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or PBGC, has the authority to terminate an underfunded pension plan under limited circumstances. In the event our pension plan is terminated for any reason while it is underfunded, we will incur a liability to the PBGC that may be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding in the pension plan. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We are dependent on the convenience retail industry for our revenues, and our results of operations would suffer if there is an overall decline in the convenience retail industry. The majority of our sales are made under purchase orders and short-term contracts with convenience retail which inherently involve significant risks. These risks include the uncertainty of general economic conditions in the convenience retail industry, credit exposure from our customers, termination of customer relationships without notice, consolidation of our customer base and consumer movement toward purchasing from club stores. Any of these factors could negatively affect the convenience retail industry which would negatively affect our results of operations. We face competition in our distribution markets and if we are unable to compete effectively in any distribution market, we may lose market share and suffer a decline in sales. Our distribution centers operate in highly competitive markets. We face competition from local, regional and national tobacco and consumable products distributors on the basis of service, price and variety of products offered, schedules and reliability of deliveries, and the range and quality of services provided. Some of our competitors, including a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., McLane Company, Inc., the largest convenience wholesale distributor in the United States, have substantial financial resources and long standing customer relationships. In addition, heightened competition among our existing competitors or by new entrants into the distribution market could create additional competitive pressures that may reduce our margins and adversely affect our business. If we fail to successfully respond to these competitive pressures or to implement our strategies effectively, we may lose market share and our results of operations could suffer. If we are not able to retain existing customers and attract new customers, our results of operations could suffer. Increasing the growth and profitability of our distribution business is particularly dependent upon our ability to retain existing customers and attract additional distribution customers. The ability to attract additional customers through our existing network of distribution centers is especially important because it enables us to 11 Table of Contents leverage our distribution centers and other fixed assets. Our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers is dependent upon our ability to provide industry-leading customer service, offer competitive products at low prices, maintain high levels of productivity and efficiency in distributing products to our customers while integrating new customers into our distribution system, and offer marketing, merchandising and ancillary services that provide value to our customers. If we are unable to execute these tasks effectively, we may not be able to attract a significant number of new customers and our existing customer base could decrease, either or both of which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. If the costs to us of the products we distribute increase and we cannot pass the increase on to our customers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our industry is characterized by a high volume of sales with relatively low profit margins. We experience increases in our cost of goods sold when manufacturers increase prices or reduce or eliminate discounts and incentive programs. If we cannot pass along such cost increases to our customers due to resistance to higher prices, our relatively narrow profit margins and earnings could be negatively affected. We rely on funding from manufacturer discount and incentive programs and cigarette excise stamping allowances, any material changes in these programs could adversely affect our results of operations. We receive payments from the manufacturers of the products we distribute for allowances, discounts, volume rebates, and other merchandising and incentive programs. These payments are a substantial benefit to us. The amount and timing of these payments are affected by changes in the programs by the manufacturers, our ability to sell specified volumes of a particular product, attaining specified levels of purchases by our customers, and the duration of carrying a specified product. In addition, we receive discounts from states in connection with the purchase of excise stamps for cigarettes. If the manufacturers or states change or discontinue these programs or change the timing of payments, or if we are unable to maintain the volume of our sales, our results of operations could be negatively affected. We depend on relatively few suppliers for a large portion of our products, and any interruptions in the supply of the products that we distribute could adversely affect our results of operations. We obtain the products we distribute from third party suppliers. At December 31, 2008, we had approximately 3,800 vendors, and during 2008 we purchased approximately 61% of our products from our top 20 suppliers, with our top two suppliers, Philip Morris and R. J. Reynolds, representing approximately 27% and 14% of our purchases, respectively. We do not have any long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to provide products to us. Although our purchasing volume can provide leverage when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the products we distribute in the quantities we request or on favorable terms. Since we do not control the actual production of the products we distribute, we are also subject to delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside our control. These conditions include job actions or strikes by employees of suppliers, inclement weather, transportation interruptions, and natural disasters or other catastrophic events. Our inability to obtain adequate supplies of the products we distribute as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise, could cause us to fail to meet our obligations to our customers and reduce the volume of our sales. We may lose business if cigarette or other manufacturers decide to engage in direct distribution of their products. In the past certain large manufacturers have elected to engage in direct distribution of their products and eliminate distributors such as Core-Mark. If other manufacturers make similar decisions in the future our revenues and profits would be adversely affected, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to take action to compensate for such losses. 12 Table of Contents Cigarette and consumable goods distribution is a low-margin business sensitive to economic conditions. We derive most of our revenues from the distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, candy, snacks, fast food, groceries, fresh products, dairy, non-alcoholic beverages, general merchandise and health and beauty care products. Our industry is characterized by a high volume of sales with relatively low profit margins. Our food/non-food sales are at prices that are based on the cost of the product plus a percentage markup. As a result, our profit levels may be negatively impacted during periods of cost deflation for these products, even though our gross profit as a percentage of the price of goods sold may remain relatively constant. Alternatively, periods of product cost inflation may also have a negative impact on our profit margins and earnings with respect to sales of cigarettes. Gross profit on cigarette sales are generally fixed on a cents per carton basis. Therefore, as cigarette prices increase, gross profit generally decreases as a percent of sales. In addition, if the cost of the cigarettes that we purchase increase due to manufacturer price increases or increases in applicable excise tax rates, our inventory costs and accounts receivable could rise. To the extent that product cost increases are not passed on to our customers due to their resistance to higher prices, our profit margins and earnings could be negatively impacted. Some of our distribution centers are dependent on a few relatively large customers, and our failure to maintain our relationships with these customers could substantially harm our business and prospects. Some of our distribution centers are dependent on relationships with a single customer or a few customers, and we expect our reliance on these relationships to continue for the foreseeable future. Any termination or non-renewal of customer relationships could severely and adversely affect the revenues generated by certain of our distribution centers. Any future termination, non-renewal or reduction in services that we provide to these select customers would cause our revenues to decline and our operating results would be harmed. We may be subject to product liability claims which could materially adversely affect our business, and our operations could be subject to disruptions as a result of manufacturer recalls of products. Core-Mark, as with other distributors of food and consumer products, faces the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products sold by us causes injury or illness. With respect to product liability claims, we believe that we have sufficient liability insurance coverage and indemnities from manufacturers. However, product liability insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost, or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. We generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying the products we distribute, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. If we do not have adequate insurance, if contractual indemnification is not available or if a party cannot fulfill its indemnification obligation, product liability relating to defective products could materially adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, we may be required to manage a recall of products on behalf of a manufacturer. Managing a recall could disrupt our operations as we might be required to devote substantial resources toward implementing the recall, which could materially adversely affect our ability to provide quality service to our customers. Our ability to operate effectively could be impaired by the risks and costs associated with the efforts to grow our business through acquisitions. Efforts to grow our distribution business may include acquisitions. Acquisitions entail various risks such as identifying suitable candidates, effecting acquisitions at acceptable rates of return, obtaining adequate financing and acceptable terms and conditions. Our success depends in a large part on factors such as our ability to successfully integrate such operations and personnel in a timely and efficient manner and retain the customer base of the acquired operations. If we cannot successfully integrate these operations and retain the customer base, we may experience material adverse consequences to our results of operations and financial condition. The 13 Table of Contents integration of separately managed businesses operating in different markets involves a number of risks, including the following: • demands on management related to the increase in our size after the acquisition of operations; • difficulties in the assimilation of different corporate cultures and business practices, such as those involving vendor promotions, and of geographically dispersed personnel and operations; • difficulties in the integration of departments, information technology systems, operating methods, technologies, books and records and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards and controls, including internal accounting controls, procedures and policies; and • expenses of any undisclosed liabilities, such as those involving environmental or legal matters. Successful integration of new operations will depend on our ability to manage those operations, fully assimilate the operations into our distribution network, realize opportunities for revenue growth presented by strengthened product offerings and expanded geographic market coverage, maintain the customer base and eliminate redundant and excess costs. We may not realize the anticipated benefits or savings from an acquisition to the extent or in the time frame anticipated, if at all, or such benefits and savings may include higher costs than anticipated. We may not be able to achieve the expected benefits from the implementation of new marketing initiatives. We are taking action to improve our competitive performance through a series of strategic marketing initiatives. The goal of this effort is to develop and implement a comprehensive and competitive business strategy, addressing the special needs of the distribution industry environment, increase our market position within the industry, and ultimately create increased shareholder value. We may not be able to successfully execute our new marketing initiatives and realize the intended synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects. Many of the risk factors previously mentioned, such as increased competition, may limit our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and expand our business. Our efforts to capitalize on business opportunities may not bring the intended result. Assumptions underlying estimates of expected revenue growth or overall cost savings may not be met or economic conditions may deteriorate. Customer acceptance of new distribution formats developed may not be as anticipated, hampering our ability to attract new customers or maintain our existing customer base. Additionally, our management may have its attention diverted from other important activities while trying to execute new marketing initiatives. If these or other factors limit our ability to execute our strategic initiatives, our expectations of future results of operations, including expected revenue growth and cost savings, may not be met. Our information technology systems may be subject to failure or disruptions, which could seriously harm our business. Our business is highly dependent on our Distribution Center Management System, or DCMS. The convenience retail industry does not have a standard information technology or IT platform. Therefore, actively integrating our customers into our IT platform is a priority, and our DCMS platform provides our distribution centers with the flexibility to adapt to our customers’ IT requirements. We also rely on DCMS and our internal information technology staff to maintain the information required to operate our distribution centers and to provide our customers with fast, efficient and reliable deliveries. While we have taken steps to increase redundancy in our IT systems, if our DCMS fails or is subject to disruptions, we may suffer disruptions in service to our customers and our results of operations could suffer. 14 Table of Contents We depend on our senior management and key personnel. We substantially depend on the continued services and performance of our senior management and other key personnel. Certain personnel such as our information technology, tax and procurement staff, among others, have significant proprietary or industry knowledge and skills specific to our business. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on these individuals, and we do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key employees could harm our business. We operate in a competitive labor market and a portion of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Our continued success will depend partly on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. We compete with other businesses in each of our markets with respect to attracting and retaining qualified employees. A shortage of qualified employees could require us to enhance our wage and benefits packages in order to compete effectively in the hiring and retention of qualified employees or to hire more expensive temporary employees. In addition, at December 31, 2008, 199, or 4.8%, of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements with labor organizations, which expire at various times over the course of the next year. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew our respective collective bargaining agreements on favorable terms, that employees at other facilities will not unionize, that our labor costs will not increase, that we will be able to recover any increases in labor costs through increased prices charged to customers or that we will not suffer business interruptions as a result of strikes or other work stoppages. If we fail to attract and retain qualified employees, to control our labor costs, or to recover any increased labor costs through increased prices charged to our customers or offsets by productivity gains, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Proposed federal legislation that would eliminate the secret ballot in union elections may make it easier for unions to organize our employees. This may result in more of our employees becoming subject to collective bargaining agreements and may negatively affect our labor relations and labor costs. Risks Related to the Distribution of Cigarettes Our sales volume is largely dependent upon the distribution of cigarette products, sales of which are declining. The distribution of cigarette and other tobacco products is currently a significant portion of our business. In 2008, approximately 68.2% of our revenues came from the distribution of cigarettes. During the same period, approximately 29.0% of our gross profit was generated from cigarettes. Due to increases in the prices of cigarettes and other tobacco products, restrictions on advertising and promotions by cigarette manufacturers, increases in cigarette regulation and excise taxes, health concerns, increased pressure from anti-tobacco groups and other factors, the United States and Canadian cigarette and tobacco market has generally been declining since 1980, and is expected to continue to decline. Prior to 2007 our cigarette sales had benefitted from a shift in sales to the convenience retail segment, and as a result of this shift, convenience store cigarette sales had not declined in proportion to the decline in overall consumption. However, our cigarette carton sales began to decline in 2007, and this decline continued in 2008. We believe this trend is driven principally by an increasing decline in overall consumption due to factors such as increasingly more legislative controls which regulate where the consumer may or may not smoke and the acceleration in the frequency and amount of excise tax increases which reduces demand. The shift in cigarette carton sales from other channels to the convenience retail segment may no longer be adequate to compensate for consumption declines. 15 Table of Contents Legislation and other matters are negatively affecting the cigarette and tobacco industry. The tobacco industry is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations regarding the advertising, sale, taxation and use of tobacco products imposed by local, state, federal and foreign governments. Various state and provincial governments have adopted or are considering legislation and regulations restricting displays and advertising of tobacco products, establishing fire safety standards for cigarettes, raising the minimum age to possess or purchase tobacco products, requiring the disclosure of ingredients used in the manufacture of tobacco products, imposing restrictions on public smoking, restricting the sale of tobacco products directly to consumers or other recipients over the Internet, and other tobacco product regulation. For example, the United States Supreme Court has recently determined that lawsuits may proceed against tobacco manufacturers based on alleged deceptive advertising in the marketing of so-called “light” cigarettes. In British Columbia, Canada, legislation was adopted authorizing the provincial government to seek recovery of tobacco-related health care costs from the tobacco industry and a lawsuit under such legislation is underway. The Supreme Court of Canada unanimously upheld the Province’s right to sue the tobacco industry and concluded the Tobacco Damages and Health Care Costs Recovery Act is constitutional. Other states and provinces may adopt similar legislation and initiate similar lawsuits. Furthermore, in Alberta, Canada, the Tobacco Reduction Act was passed in 2008 to prohibit the sale of all cigarette and tobacco products from all health-care facilities, public post-secondary campuses, pharmacies and stores containing a pharmacy effective January 1, 2009. In addition, cigarettes are subject to substantial excise taxes in the United States and Canada. Significant increases in cigarette-related taxes have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted within the United States and Canada. These tax increases are likely to continue to have an adverse impact on sales of cigarettes due to lower consumption levels and sales outside of legitimate channels. In the United States we purchase cigarettes primarily from manufacturers covered by the tobacco industry’s Master Settlement Agreement (MSA), which results in our facing certain potential liabilities and financial risks including competition from lower priced sales of cigarettes produced by manufacturers who do not participate in the MSA. In June 1994, the Mississippi attorney general brought an action against various tobacco industry members on behalf of the state to recover state funds paid for health-care costs related to tobacco use. Most other states sued the major United States cigarette manufacturers based on similar theories. The cigarette manufacturer defendants settled the first four of these cases with Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota by separate agreements. These states are referred to as non-MSA states. In November 1998, the major United States tobacco product manufacturers entered into the MSA with the other 46 states, the District of Columbia, and certain United States territories. The MSA and the other state settlement agreements settled health-care cost recovery actions and monetary claims relating to future conduct arising out of the use of, or exposure to, tobacco products, imposed a stream of future payment obligations on major United States cigarette manufacturers and placed significant restrictions on the ability to market and sell cigarettes. The payments required under the MSA result in the products sold by the participating manufacturers to be priced at higher levels than non-MSA manufacturers. In order to limit our potential tobacco related liabilities, we try to limit our purchases of cigarettes from non-MSA manufacturers for sale in MSA states. The benefits of liability limitations and indemnities we are entitled to under the MSA do not apply to sales of cigarettes manufactured by non-MSA manufacturers. From time to time we purchase a limited amount of cigarettes from non-MSA manufacturers when circumstances limit our ability to avoid doing so. For example, during a transition period while integrating distribution operations from an acquisition we may need to purchase and distribute cigarettes manufactured by non-MSA manufacturers to satisfy the demands of customers of the acquired business. With respect to sales of such non-MSA cigarettes, we could be subject to litigation that could expose us to liabilities for which we would not be indemnified. 16 Table of Contents If the tobacco industry’s Master Settlement Agreement is invalidated, or tobacco manufacturers cannot meet their obligations to indemnify us, we could be subject to substantial litigation liability. In connection with the MSA, we are indemnified by the tobacco product manufacturers from which we purchase cigarettes and other tobacco products for liabilities arising from our sale of the tobacco products that they supply to us. To date, litigation challenging the validity of the MSA, including claims that the MSA violates antitrust laws, has not been successful. However, if such litigation were to be successful and the MSA is invalidated, we could be subject to substantial litigation due to our sales of cigarettes and other tobacco products, and we may not be indemnified for such costs by the tobacco product manufacturers in the future. In addition, even if we continue to be indemnified by cigarette manufacturers that are parties to the MSA, future litigation awards against such cigarette manufacturers and our company could be so large as to eliminate the ability of the manufacturers to satisfy their indemnification obligations. We face competition from sales of deep-discount brands and illicit and other low priced sales of cigarettes. As a result of purchasing cigarettes for sale in MSA states primarily from manufacturers that are parties to the MSA, we are adversely impacted by sales of brands from non-MSA manufacturers and deep-discount brands manufactured by small manufacturers that are not original participants to the MSA. The cigarettes subject to the MSA that we sell have been negatively impacted by widening price gaps between those brands and deep-discount brands for the past several years. Growth in market share of deep-discount brands since the MSA was signed in 1998 has had an adverse impact on the volume of the cigarettes that we sell. We also face competition from the diversion into the United States market of cigarettes intended for sale outside the United States, the sale of counterfeit cigarettes by third parties, the sale of cigarettes in non-taxable jurisdictions, inter-state and international smuggling of cigarettes, increased imports of foreign low priced brands, the sale of cigarettes by third parties over the internet and by other means designed to avoid collection of applicable taxes. The competitive environment has been characterized by a continued influx of cheap products that challenge sales of higher priced and taxed cigarettes manufactured by parties to the MSA. Increased sales of counterfeit cigarettes, sales by third parties over the internet, or sales by means to avoid the collection of applicable taxes, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Cigarettes and other tobacco products are subject to substantial excise taxes and if these taxes are increased, our sales of cigarettes and other tobacco products could decline. Cigarettes and tobacco products are subject to substantial excise taxes in the United States and Canada. Significant increases in cigarette-related taxes and/or fees have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted within the United States and Canada. For example, several states passed ballot measures during 2007 and 2008 which will have the effect of increasing excise taxes on cigarettes and other tobacco products. In the United States, legislation was recently introduced to fund the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) by raising the federal cigarette excise tax from 39¢ to $1.01 per pack. This legislation was passed and signed into law in February 2009 and becomes effective April 1, 2009. These tax increases are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on sales of cigarettes due to lower consumption levels and a shift in sales from the premium to the non-premium or discount cigarette segments or to sales outside of legitimate channels. In addition, state and local governments may require us to prepay for excise tax stamps placed on packages of cigarettes and other tobacco products that we sell. If these excise taxes are substantially increased, it could have a negative impact on our liquidity. Accordingly, we may be required to obtain additional debt financing, which we may not be able to obtain on satisfactory terms or at all. Our inability to prepay the excise taxes may prevent or delay our purchase of cigarettes and other tobacco products, which could materially adversely affect our ability to supply our customers. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to Foreign Exchange and Financing Currency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our revenues and financial results. We generate a significant portion of our revenues in Canadian dollars, approximately 15% in 2008 and 14% in 2007. We also incur a significant portion of our expenses in Canadian dollars. To the extent that we are unable to match revenues received in Canadian dollars with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations in Canadian dollars could have an adverse effect on our revenues and financial results. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar (such as the second half of 2008), our reported sales and earnings from our Canadian operations will be reduced because the Canadian currency will be translated into fewer U.S. dollars. Conversely, during times of a weakening U.S. dollar (as occurred in 2007), our reported sales and earnings from our Canadian operations will be increased because the Canadian currency will be translated into more U.S. dollars. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) require that such foreign currency transaction gains or losses on intercompany transactions be recorded currently as gains or losses within the income statement. To the extent we incur losses on such transactions, our net income and earnings per share will be reduced. We may not be able to borrow additional capital to provide us with sufficient liquidity and capital resources necessary to meet our future financial obligations. During the current economic downturn, some companies have experienced difficulties in drawing on lines of credit, issuing debt and raising capital generally, which has had a material adverse effect on their liquidity. In addition, if banks from which companies expect to receive financing fail or become insolvent, the borrowing capacity of those companies may be reduced. We expect that our principal sources of funds will be cash generated from our operations and, if necessary, borrowings under our $250 million credit facility. While we believe our sources of liquidity are adequate, we cannot assure you that these sources will be available or continue to provide us with sufficient liquidity and capital resources required to meet our future financial obligations, or to provide funds for our working capital, capital expenditures and other needs. We may require additional equity or debt financing to meet our working capital requirements or to fund our capital expenditures. We may not be able to obtain financing on terms satisfactory to us, or at all. Our operating flexibility is limited in significant respects by the restrictive covenants in our Credit Facility. Our credit facility imposes restrictions on us that could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions by limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and industry. Specifically, these restrictions limit our ability, among other things, to: incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends and make distributions, issue stock of subsidiaries, make investments, repurchase stock, create liens, enter into transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate, or transfer and sell our assets. In addition, under our credit facility, under certain circumstances we are required to meet a fixed charge coverage ratio. Our ability to comply with this covenant may be affected by factors beyond our control and a breach of the covenant could result in an event of default under our credit facility, which would permit the lenders to declare all amounts incurred thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate their commitments to make further extensions of credit. Risks Related to Government Regulation and Environment We are subject to governmental regulation and if we are unable to comply with regulations that affect our business or if there are substantial changes in these regulations, our business could be adversely affected. As a distributor of food products, we are subject to regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration, Health Canada and similar regulatory authorities at the state, provincial and local levels. In addition, our employees operate tractor trailers, trucks, forklifts and various other powered material handling equipment and we are therefore subject to regulation by the U.S. and Canadian Departments of Transportation. 18 Table of Contents Our operations are also subject to regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Drug Enforcement Agency and other federal, state, provincial and local agencies. Each of these regulatory authorities has broad administrative powers with respect to our operations. If we fail to adequately comply with government regulations or regulations become more stringent, we could experience increased inspections, regulatory authorities could take remedial action including imposing fines or shutting down our operations or we could be subject to increased compliance costs. If any of these events were to occur, our results of operations would be adversely affected. Earthquake and natural disaster damage could have a material adverse affect on our business. We are headquartered and conduct a significant portion of our operations in California. Our operations in California are susceptible to damage from earthquakes. In addition, one of our data centers is located in Richmond, British Columbia, Canada which is susceptible to earthquakes, and one of our data centers is located in Plano, Texas which is susceptible to wind storms. We believe that we maintain adequate insurance to indemnify us for losses. However, significant earthquake and natural disaster damage could result in losses in excess of our insurance coverage which would materially adversely affect our results of operations. We also have operations in areas that have been affected by natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornados, flooding, ice and snow storms. While we maintain insurance to indemnify us for losses due to such occurrences, our insurance may not be sufficient or payments under our policies may not be received timely enough to prevent adverse impacts on our business. Our customers could also be affected by like events, adversely impacting our sales. ITEM 1.B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 19 Table of Contents 