ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business If we are unable to maintain our current customers on terms that are favorable to us, our business, financial condition and operating results may suffer a material adverse effect. We enter into contracts with our gaming establishment customers to provide our cash access products and related services. Our contracts have a term ranging from one to five years in duration and provide that we are the only provider of cash access products to these establishments during the term of the contract. However, some of our contracts are terminable upon 30 days advance notice and some of our contracts either become nonexclusive or terminable by our gaming establishment customers in the event that we fail to satisfy specific covenants set forth in the contracts, such as covenants related to our ongoing product development. We are typically required to renegotiate the terms of our customer contracts upon their expiration, and in some circumstances we may be forced to modify the terms of our contracts before they expire. When we have successfully renewed these contracts, these negotiations have in the past resulted in, and in the future may result in, financial and other terms that are less favorable to us than the terms of the expired contracts. In particular, we are often required to pay a higher commission rate to a gaming establishment than we previously paid in order to renew the relationship. Assuming constant transaction volume, increases in commissions or other incentives paid to gaming establishments would reduce our operating results. We may not succeed in renewing these contracts when they expire, which would result in a complete loss of revenue from that customer, either for an extended period of time or forever. As our contracts are often executed by one corporation for the provision of services at multiple gaming establishments, the loss of a single contract often results in the loss of multiple gaming establishments. If we are required to pay higher commission rates or agree to other less favorable terms to retain our customers or we are not able to renew our relationships with our customers upon the expiration of our contracts, our business, financial condition and operating results would be harmed. Competition in the market for cash access services is intense, which could result in higher commissions or loss of customers to our competitors. The market for cash access products and related services is intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase and intensify in the future. We compete with other providers of cash access products and services such as Certegy Gaming Services, Inc. (formerly known as Game Financial Corporation), a subsidiary of Fidelity National Information Services Inc. operating as GameCash; Global Payment Systems operating as Cash & Win; and Cash Systems, Inc. On February 28, 2008, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire all of the outstanding stock of Certegy Gaming Services, Inc. (“CGS”). We compete with financial institutions such as U.S. Bancorp and other regional and local banks that operate ATMs on the premises of gaming establishments. In markets outside North America, we encounter competition from banks and other financial service companies established in those markets. We face potential competition from gaming establishments that may choose to operate cash access systems on their own behalf rather than outsource to us. We may in the future also face competition from traditional transaction processors, such as First Data, that may choose to enter the gaming patron cash services market. In connection with our redemption of First Data’s interest in us, First Data agreed not to compete with us prior to March 10, 2007. Given its familiarity with our specific industry and business and operations as a result of being our majority owner from inception until March 10, 2004, First Data could be a significant competitive threat now that this covenant not to compete has expired. In addition, we may in the future face potential competition from new entrants into the market for cash access products and related services and, subject to certain covenants made by some of the banks that sponsor us into the card associations, competition from such banks during and after expiration of our contracts with such banks. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significant advantages over us, including greater name recognition, longer operating histories, pre-existing relationships with current or potential customers including pre-existing relationships relating to other financial services, significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources and more ready access to capital which allow them to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities. In addition, some providers of cash access products and services to gaming establishments have established cooperative relationships with financial institutions in order to expand their service offerings. Other providers of cash access products and services to gaming establishments have in the past increased, and may in the future continue to increase, the commissions or other incentives they pay to gaming establishments in order to win those gaming establishments as customers and to gain market share. To the extent that competitive pressures force us to increase commissions or other incentives to establish or maintain relationships with gaming establishments, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Under our agreements with NRT, Western Money Systems and Glory (U.S.A.) Inc. (“Glory”), these companies are subject to certain prohibitions related to providing their cash handling services on any device that provides cash access services of other providers. We may face competition from these companies or other providers of cash access services to the extent that NRT, Western Money Systems or Glory enters the market to provide these services or establishes cooperative relationships with other cash access service providers. 17 Table of Contents Because of significant concentration among our top customers, the loss of a top customer could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 40.6% and 40.2% of our revenues, respectively. Our largest customer accounted for 19.5% and 18.1% of our revenues in the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The loss of, or a substantial decrease in revenues from, any one of our top customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Consolidation among operators of gaming establishments may also result in the loss of a top customer to the extent that customers of ours are acquired by our competitors’ customers. We depend on key personnel and they would be difficult to replace. We depend upon the ability and experience of key members of management who have substantial experience with our operations and the gaming patron cash access industry. In 2007, certain key members of our management team, including our former Chief Executive Officer and former Chief Financial Officer, and a former member of our Board of Directors, left the Company voluntarily or were terminated. We relied heavily on these individuals for the operations and management of the Company. In October 2007, Scott Betts was employed by us in the roles of President and Chief Executive Officer. He also assumed the role of Chief Financial Officer on an interim basis. On February 25, 2008, we hired George Gresham as our Chief Financial Officer. While Mr. Gresham has a background in the payments processing industry, he may not be able to immediately understand our unique operations. During the transition of this role from Mr. Betts to Mr. Gresham, there could be significant inefficiencies in our operations and management. Mr. Gresham is in the process of familiarizing himself with the processes, systems and procedures that are necessary to understand our operations. Other than Mr. Betts, Mr. Gresham, Kathryn Lever, our General Counsel, Mari Ellis, our Senior Vice President, Technology and Development, and Udai Puramsetti, Executive Vice President, Operations, none of our executive officers have employment agreements with us. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract, train and retain key managers involved in the development, operation and marketing of our products and services to gaming establishments. We may need to increase the number of key managers as we further develop our products and services and as we enter new markets and expand in existing markets. Our ability to enter into contracts with gaming establishments depends in large part on the relationships that our key managers have formed with management-level personnel of gaming establishments. Competition for individuals with such relationships is intense, and we may not be successful in recruiting such personnel. Our employees are subject to certain noncompetition covenants following their departure from the Company, which noncompetition covenants could be rendered unenforceable in whole or in part. As such, we may not be able to retain such individuals as they may leave our Company and go to work for our competitors. Our sales efforts would be particularly hampered by the defection of personnel with long-standing relationships with management-level personnel of gaming establishments. We also suffered attrition in several non-management positions during 2007, which has placed an additional burden on our remaining personnel. This additional burden has made the retention of existing personnel and recruitment of additional personnel more difficult. If we are unable to attract or retain key personnel, our business, financial condition, operating results and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting may lead to our inability to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business, our reputation and the trading price of our stock. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as related rules and regulations implemented by the SEC, the New York Stock Exchange and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, have required changes in the corporate governance practices and financial reporting standards for public companies. These laws, rules and regulations, including compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”), have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made many activities more time-consuming and more burdensome. 18 Table of Contents The Company was required for the first time to comply with Section 404 in connection with our Annual Report filed on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. As a result of our internal reviews in connection with Section 404, we identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. The material weaknesses meant that there was a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements would not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As is described more fully in Item 9A of this Annual Report filed on Form 10-K, we have undertaken measures to remediate each of those material weaknesses. The remediation measures that we undertook may not have remediated the material weaknesses in full or permanently, and those material weaknesses or new material weaknesses may arise in the future. Any material weaknesses could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, cause a decline or volatility in our stock prices, cause a reduction in our credit ratings or tarnish our public perception. Also, increased expenses due to remediation costs and increased regulatory scrutiny are also possible. Moreover, we run the risk of further non-compliance by not successfully remediating the weaknesses in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Inadequate internal control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock and our reputation. We may be required to make payments to certain of our customers to resolve disputes over our calculation of commissions for certain types of transactions. As a result of inquiries made during the internal investigation announced on November 14, 2007, the Company reviewed and considered the application of contract clauses relating to the calculation of commissions payable to certain of the Company’s customers in connection with certain types of transactions. In reviewing the commission computation provisions of the customer contracts, the Company has identified issues with the payment of certain commissions to twenty-two of our customers during the period from 2005 through 2007. We believe that it is probable we will incur $2.9 million in costs to resolve any commission calculation for the relevant customers. To the extent that other customers dispute our commission calculations, or customers refuse to resolve their commission calculation disputes with us for the amounts we propose, we may be required to make payments in excess of $2.9 million to resolve such disputes. If we are unable to resolve these disputes, we may lose customers or become subject to costly litigation. We are subject to extensive rules and regulations of card associations, including MasterCard International, Visa International and Visa U.S.A., that are always subject to change, which may harm our business. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, a substantial portion of our revenues were derived from transactions subject to the extensive rules and regulations of the leading card associations, Visa International and Visa U.S.A. (collectively “VISA”), and MasterCard International (“MasterCard”). From time to time, we receive correspondence from these card associations regarding our compliance with their rules and regulations. In the ordinary course of our business, we engage in discussions with the card associations, and the banks that sponsor us into the card associations, regarding our compliance with their rules and regulations. The rules and regulations do not expressly address some of the contexts and settings in which we process cash access transactions, or do so in a manner subject to varying interpretations. For example, neither of the major card associations has determined that our ability to process credit card cash advance transactions using biometric technology at an unmanned machine and without cashier involvement through our ACM complies with its regulations. One association has allowed us to conduct these transactions as long as we assume chargeback liability for any transaction in which we do not obtain a contemporaneous cardholder signature. An increase in the level of chargebacks could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Therefore, patrons still must complete these transactions at the cashier, which is less convenient to patrons and prevents gaming establishments from realizing potential cashier labor cost savings. As another example, in 2003, one of the major card associations informed our sponsoring bank that authorization requests originating from our systems needed to be encoded to identify our transactions as gambling transactions, even though our services do not directly involve any gambling activity. This resulted in a large number of card issuing banks declining all transactions initiated through our services. We resolved this issue by encoding the authorization requests with an alternative non-gambling indicator that the card association agreed was applicable. As another example, we and certain of our providers must continue to comply with the PCI Data Security Standard. The failure by any of such providers to comply with such standards could result in our being fined or losing certain “safe harbor” protections. These examples only illustrate some of the ways in which the card association rules and regulations have affected us in the past or may affect us in the future; there are many other ways in which these rules and regulations may adversely affect us beyond the examples provided in this document. 19 Table of Contents The card associations’ rules and regulations are always subject to change, and the card associations may modify their rules and regulations from time to time. Given the recent ownership changes in the card associations, the possibility of such changes may increase. Our inability to anticipate changes in rules, regulations or the interpretation or application thereof may result in substantial disruption to our business. In the event that the card associations or our sponsoring banks determine that the manner in which we process certain types of card transactions is not in compliance with existing rules and regulations, or if the card associations adopt new rules or regulations that prohibit or restrict the manner in which we process certain types of card transactions, we may be forced to pay a fine, modify the manner in which we operate our business or stop processing certain types of cash access transactions altogether, any of which could have a material negative impact on our business and operating results. In both our credit card and POS debit card cash advance businesses, patrons are generally issued a negotiable instrument, which is surrendered to the gaming establishment in exchange for cash. These transactions are classified by the card associations as “quasi-cash” transactions, and are identified to the card associations as such by the use of a specific merchant processing code. These merchant processing codes are unique to the respective card associations and the issuing banks use these codes as one of the factors they consider in determining whether to authorize such transactions. EDITH is a product that we have developed to dispense a bar-coded slot ticket based on a POS debit authorization. It has not yet been determined whether the card associations will deem the slot ticket a negotiable instrument or not. If they do not, we may be required to route such transactions using a different merchant processing code, and the use of a different merchant processing code may result in lower approval rates and higher interchange expense than we experience with quasi-cash transactions. If approval rates for EDITH transactions are lower than approval rates for quasi-cash transactions, gaming establishment patrons may be dissuaded from using EDITH, resulting in the failure of our EDITH product to gain commercial acceptance. We also process transactions involving the use of the proprietary credit cards such as those offered by Discover Card and American Express as well as other regional card issues in certain international markets. The rules and regulations of the proprietary credit card networks that service these cards present risks to us that are similar to those posed by the rules and regulations of VISA and MasterCard. Changes in interchange rates and other fees may affect our cost of revenues (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) and net income. We pay credit card associations fees for services they provide in settling transactions routed through their networks, called interchange fees. In addition, we pay fees to participate in various ATM or POS debit card networks as well as processing fees to process our transactions. The amounts of these interchange fees are fixed by the card associations and networks in their sole discretion, and are subject to increase at any time. VISA and MasterCard both increased applicable interchange fees in April 2007. Also, in 2004, VISA’s Interlink network, through which we process a substantial portion of our POS debit card transactions, materially increased the interchange rates for those transactions. Since that date, the proportion of our POS debit card transactions that are routed on the Interlink network has increased, resulting in a decrease in profitability of our POS debit card business. Certain of our contracts enable us to pass through increases in interchange or processing fees to our customers, but competitive pressures might prevent us from passing all or some of these fees through to our customers in the future. To the extent that we are unable to pass through to our customers all or any portion of any increase in interchange or processing fees, our cost of revenues (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) would increase and our net income would decrease, assuming no change in transaction volumes. Any such decrease in net income could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Additionally, the transformation of the ownership structure of Visa and MasterCard from private associations of issuing banks to publicly traded corporations may negatively impact the manner in which these card associations manage and determine interchange rates. This could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We receive fees from the issuers of ATM cards that are used in our ATMs, called reverse interchange fees. The amounts of these reverse interchange fees are fixed by electronic funds transfer networks, and are subject to decrease in their discretion at any time. Our contracts with gaming operators do not enable us to pass through to our customers the amount of any decrease in reverse interchange fees. To the extent that reverse interchange fees are reduced, our net income would decrease, assuming no change in transaction volumes, which may result in a material adverse effect on our operating results. 20 Table of Contents Our indebtedness could materially adversely affect our operations and financial results and prevent us from obtaining additional financing, if necessary. As of December 31, 2007, we had total indebtedness of $263.5 million in principal amount (of which $152.8 million consisted of senior subordinated notes and $110.7 million consisted of senior secured debt). Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it: • makes it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to either our senior secured debt or our senior subordinated notes, which, if we fail to do, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt; • increases our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts and other general corporate purposes; • limits our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • restricts our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our common stock; • places us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • restricts our ability to acquire businesses or technologies that would benefit our business; • restricts our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates or create liens or guarantees; and • limits, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our other indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture for the Notes contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that we may believe to be in our long-term best interests. These financial covenants require, among other things, delivery of financial statements and the filing of periodic reports with the SEC, each on prescribed timeframes. These restrictive covenants include, among other things, limits on our ability to make investments, pay dividends, incur debt, sell assets, or merge with or acquire another entity. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. Certain matters may arise that require us to get waivers or modifications of these covenants. For example, as described more fully below, we may seek to obtain our own money transmitter licenses. These licenses may require us to provide letters of credit or surety bonds in excess of the amounts currently allowed under the credit facilities. We may address these risks by seeking modifications or waivers of our existing agreements, by refinancing those agreements, or both. If we are unable to get these matters waived, modified or refinanced, an event of default could occur, which if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. Our senior secured debt currently bears interest at a rate that is based on LIBOR, and is adjusted periodically to reflect changes in LIBOR. We are therefore exposed to the risk of increased interest expense in the event of any increase in LIBOR. The substantial amount of our senior secured debt magnifies this risk. To service our indebtedness we will require a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate cash flow depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to generate cash flow from operations depends on general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Due to these factors, it is possible that our business will not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to pay our indebtedness as it matures and to fund our other liquidity needs. This would cause us to have to borrow money to meet these needs and future borrowing may not be available to us at all or in an amount sufficient to satisfy these needs. In such events, we will need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We could have to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expenses and capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity or debt financing or joint venture partners. We may not be able to affect any of these financing strategies on satisfactory terms, if at all. Our failure to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms would have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness. The terms of our senior secured debt may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which will reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts and other general corporate purposes. Because of our dependence on a few providers, or in some cases one provider, for some of the financial services we offer to patrons, the loss of a provider could have a material adverse effect on our business or our financial performance. We depend on a few providers, or in some cases one provider, for some of the financial services that we offer to patrons. The loss of any of these providers could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. 21 Table of Contents Money Order Instruments. We currently rely on IPS to issue the negotiable instruments that are used to complete credit card cash advance and POS debit card transactions. Most states require a money transmitter license in order to issue the negotiable instruments that are used to complete credit card cash advance and POS debit card transactions. We do not hold any money transmitter licenses, but currently issue negotiable instruments as an agent of IPS, which holds the required money transmitter licenses. On November 27, 2006, we entered into an agreement with IPS for a term of approximately three years. Under terms of this agreement, subject to limited exceptions, IPS is our sole and exclusive provider of money order instruments. On February 22, 2007, IPS’ parent company, First Data, announced that it had decided to gradually exit the business of issuing money order instruments over the next two to three years. We have been advised that our agreement will be honored until the expiration of the agreement in accordance with its terms on December 31, 2009. Prior to such date we will either be required to enter in an agency relationship with another third-party that holds the required money transmitter licenses or obtain our own money transmitter licenses. We may not be able to enter into an agreement for such an agency relationship on terms that are favorable to us prior to the expiration of our agreement with IPS or at all. If we are unable to enter into such agreement, we may be unable to provide our cash advance services which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We are also considering obtaining our own money transmitter licenses. Many of the regulatory authorities that issue money transmitter licenses would require the posting of letters of credit or surety bonds to guaranty our obligations with respect to the negotiable instruments we would issue to gaming establishments to consummate credit card cash advance and POS debit card transactions. To post these letters of credit or surety bonds, we may need to obtain certain amendments or waivers of the terms of our senior secured credit facilities and we may need to partially secure our obligations under our senior subordinated notes. We may not be able to obtain our own money transmitter licenses. If we are unable to obtain such licenses prior to the expiration of our contract with IPS, we may be unable to complete credit card cash advance and POS debit card transactions, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Check Warranty Services. We rely on TeleCheck to provide many of the check warranty services that our gaming establishment customers contract with us to use when cashing patron checks. Unless extended pursuant to its terms, our contract with TeleCheck expires on June 30, 2008 and we are currently negotiating the terms of a new contract with TeleCheck. Unless we and TeleCheck mutually agree to a new contract, we will need to make alternative arrangements for the provision of check warranty services and we may not have any continuing interest in those contracts that are executed directly between the gaming establishments and TeleCheck, which may have a significant impact on revenues derived from check services. We may not be able to make such alternative arrangements on terms that are as favorable to us as the terms of our contract with TeleCheck, or on any terms at all. In addition, our Central Credit check warranty service, as currently deployed, uses risk analytics provided by third-party providers. Authorizations and Settlement. We rely on USA Payments and USA Payment Systems, each of which is affiliated with or controlled by Messrs. Maskatiya and Cucinotta, to obtain authorizations for credit card cash advances, POS debit card transactions, ATM cash withdrawal transactions and to provide settlement transaction files to card associations and Arriva for some of these transactions. Additionally, USA Payments and USA Payment Systems may in some cases be dependent upon a single access point to connect to the various transaction processing networks. Service outages experienced by these access points may inhibit the ability of USA Payments and USA Payment Systems to process our transactions, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance Card Association Sponsorship. We rely on Bank of America Merchant Services (“BAMS”), which is affiliated with Bank of America Corporation, for sponsorship into the Visa U.S.A. and MasterCard card associations for domestic transactions at no cost to us through September 2010. We also rely on a foreign bank in each foreign jurisdiction in which we operate, for example Banco Weng Hang in Macau SAR, to process transactions conducted in these jurisdictions through the Visa International and MasterCard card associations. ATM Cash Supply. We rely exclusively on Bank of America to supply cash for substantially all of our ATMs. Under our agreement, Bank of America is not obligated to supply us with more than $410 million in cash at any given time; however, to satisfy our ATM cash supply needs, Bank of America has regularly provided us with cash in excess of this limit. If Bank of America ever refuses to provide cash in excess of this $410 million limit, we would have an inadequate supply of cash for our ATMs. On February 28, 2008, we announced the execution of a definitive stock purchase agreement pursuant to which we will acquire all of the outstanding stock of Certegy Gaming Services, Inc. (“CGS”), formerly known as Game Financial Corporation, which is a division of Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. that operates as GameCash. CGS operates ATMs at gaming establishments and funds these ATMs out of cash reserves from their operations. If, after the close of this acquisition, the cash required to operate these ATMs is in excess of the available limits under our agreement with Bank of America and we are unable to obtain an increase to our limit we will be required to provide the cash to operate these ATMs from our existing sources of working capital. Our inability to increase the limit of amounts available to us under the agreement with Bank of America or the ability to obtain an adequate supply of cash from an alternate source would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. 22 Table of Contents Our agreement with Bank of America for the supply of ATM cash expires on December 19, 2010. Upon the expiration of this agreement we need to obtain an adequate supply of cash for our ATMs from Bank of America pursuant to a new agreement or from an alternate source. We may not be able to obtain such adequate supply of cash on terms that are favorable to us or at all. Our inability to obtain such adequate supply of cash from an alternate source would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Software Development and System Support. We generally rely on Infonox, which is controlled by family members of our director Karim Maskatiya, and USA Payments and USA Payment Systems, each of which is affiliated with or controlled by Messrs. Maskatiya and Cucinotta, for software development and system support. In addition, we rely on NRT, Western Money Systems and Glory for software development and system support related to their self-service slot ticket and player point redemption kiosks that incorporate our cash access services. Product Development. We rely on our joint venture partner and strategic partners for some of our product development. For example, we are developing cashless gaming products through IFT, our joint venture with IGT. With our strategic partners NRT, Western Money Systems and Glory, we have jointly developed and are marketing self-service slot ticket and player point redemption kiosks that incorporate our cash access services. These activities have risks resulting from unproven combinations of disparate products and services, reduced flexibility in making design changes in response to market changes, reduced control over product completion schedules and the risk of disputes with our joint venture partners and strategic partners. In addition, if our cashless gaming products are unsuccessful or do not receive necessary approvals for operation, we could lose our entire investment in IFT. Money Transfers. We rely on Western Union Financial Services, Inc. (“Western Union”) to facilitate money transfers. We have provided Western Union with notice of termination of our Amended and Restated Western Union North America Network Agency Agreement. In the event that we do not enter into a new agreement with Western Union or another entity to facilitate money transfers, we may not be able to continue the provision of money transfer services. Arriva Card. Although we have decided to discontinue offering the Arriva Card, until we dispose of our portfolio of cardholder accounts, we will continue to rely on CIT and Fiserv for the issuance, underwriting and processing of our private label credit card. Our contracts with these providers are for varying terms and provide early termination rights in the event of our breach of or the occurrence of an event of default under these contracts. Replacing any of these or other products and services we obtain from third parties could be materially disruptive to our operations. We may not be able to enter into contracts or arrangements with alternate providers on terms and conditions as beneficial to us as the contracts or arrangements with our current providers, or at all. A change in our business relationships with any of these third-party providers or the loss of their services or failed execution on their part could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The loss of our sponsorship into the Visa U.S.A., Visa International and MasterCard card associations would have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot provide cash access services involving VISA cards and MasterCard cards in the United States without sponsorship into the Visa U.S.A. and MasterCard card associations. BAMS currently sponsors us into the card associations at no cost to us. BAMS began this sponsorship of us into the card associations in 1998 when it held a significant ownership interest in us. When BAMS sold its interest in us in 2000, BAMS agreed to continue its sponsorship of us at no cost to us conditioned upon First Data’s continued indemnification of BAMS for any losses it may suffer as a result of such sponsorship. When we redeemed First Data’s ownership interest in us in 2004, First Data agreed to continue to indemnify BAMS for any losses it may suffer as a result of sponsoring us into the card associations through September 2010. First Data will have the right to terminate its indemnification obligations prior to September 2010 in the event that we breach indemnification obligations that we owe to First Data, in the event that we incur chargebacks in excess of specified levels, in the event that we are fined in excess of specified amounts for violating card associations’ operating rules, or in the event that we amend the sponsorship agreement without First Data’s consent. 23 Table of Contents In the event that First Data terminates its indemnification obligations and as a result we lose our sponsorship by BAMS into the card associations, we would need to obtain sponsorship into the card associations through another member of the card associations that is capable of supporting our transaction volume. We would not be able to obtain such alternate sponsorship on terms as favorable to us as the terms of our current sponsorship by BAMS, which is at no cost to us. We may not be able to obtain alternate sponsorship at all. Our inability to obtain alternate sponsorship on favorable terms or at all would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and liquidity. We cannot provide cash access services involving VISA cards and MasterCard cards outside of the United States without a processing agreement with or sponsorship into the Visa International and MasterCard card associations by a bank in each foreign jurisdiction in which we conduct cash access transactions. We are currently a party to processing agreements or sponsored into these card associations by foreign banks in each of the foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct cash access transactions. In the event that any foreign bank that currently is a party to such processing agreement or sponsors us into these card associations terminates such processing agreement or its sponsorship of us, we would need to obtain a processing agreement or sponsorship into the card associations through another foreign bank that is capable of supporting our transaction volume in the relevant jurisdiction. For example, in early 2005 we were notified that Bank of America is not authorized to sponsor us in some Caribbean markets. We paid a $25,000 fine to one of the card associations in connection with this non-compliant practice and entered into an alternate processing arrangement. We may not be able to obtain alternate sponsorship or processing arrangements in any region on terms as favorable to us as the terms of our current sponsorship by or processing arrangements with foreign banks, or at all. Our inability to obtain alternate sponsorship or processing arrangements on favorable terms or at all could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Changes by M&C International and First Data to certain of their tax returns may have an impact on the value of a component of our deferred tax asset. In addition, changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations may adversely affect our business. In connection with the Recapitalization and Private Equity Restructuring that occurred in 2004, we recorded a deferred tax asset of $247.0 million. In connection with this deferred tax asset, we expect to pay a significantly lower amount in United States federal income taxes than we provide for in our income statements. Our calculation of the starting balance of the deferred tax asset is based upon information we received from M&C International and First Data about the gains they recorded in the Recapitalization and the Private Equity Restructuring. If M&C International or First Data change their calculation of the gains and file amended tax returns, we may be required to recalculate the starting balance of the deferred tax asset and the annual amortization thereof. Unanticipated changes in applicable income tax rates or laws or changes in our tax position could adversely impact our future results of operations. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax asset as a result of an audit or otherwise. Additionally, changes in tax laws or interpretations of such laws by domestic and foreign tax authorities could affect our results of operations. Certain providers upon whom we are dependent are controlled by Karim Maskatiya and Robert Cucinotta, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on services provided by USA Payments and USA Payment Systems, each of which is controlled by or affiliated with Messrs. Maskatiya and Cucinotta, to provide many of the financial services that we offer to patrons. The interests of Messrs. Maskatiya and Cucinotta may not coincide with the interests of the holders of our common stock and Messrs. Maskatiya and Cucinotta may take action that benefits themselves or these entities to our detriment. For example, Messrs. Maskatiya and Cucinotta could cause any of these entities to take actions that impair the ability of these entities to provide us with the services they provide today or that reduce the importance of us to them in the future. Messrs. Maskatiya and Cucinotta could dispose of their interests in these entities at any time and the successor owner or owners of such interests may not cause such entities to treat us with the same importance as they treat us today. Any loss of the services of these entities could adversely impact our business. During the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, we incurred costs and expenses from USA Payments and USA Payment Systems of an aggregate of $4.4 million and $4.2 million, respectively. We also depend on services provided by Infonox, which is controlled by family members of our director Karim Maskatiya. These familial relationships may provide Mr. Maskatiya with influence over Infonox, presenting the same risks with respect to Infonox as those described above with respect to USA Payments and USA Payment Systems. 24 Table of Contents If we are unable to protect our intellectual property adequately, we may lose a valuable competitive advantage or be forced to incur costly litigation to protect our rights. Our success depends on developing and protecting our intellectual property. We have entered into license agreements with other parties for intellectual property that is critical to our business. We rely on the terms of these license agreements, as well as copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws to protect our intellectual property. We also rely on other confidentiality and contractual agreements and arrangements with our employees, affiliates, business partners and customers to establish and protect our intellectual property and similar proprietary rights. We hold two issued patents and have three patent applications pending. These patent applications may not become issued patents. If they do not become issued patents, our competitors would not be prevented from using these inventions. We have also entered into license agreements with other parties for the exclusive use of their technology and intellectual property rights in the gaming industry, such as our license to use portions of the software infrastructure upon which our systems operate from Infonox. We rely on these other parties to maintain and protect this technology and the related intellectual property rights. If our licensors fail to protect their intellectual property rights in material that we license and we are unable to protect such intellectual property rights, the value of our licenses may diminish significantly and our business could be significantly harmed. It is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without our authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights or intellectual property rights that we exclusively license. In addition, we may not be able to deter current and former employees, consultants, and other parties from breaching confidentiality agreements with us and misappropriating proprietary information from us or other parties. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property or our exclusively licensed rights, or if we are unable to continue to obtain or maintain licenses for proprietary technology from other parties, including in particular Infonox, it could have a material adverse effect on the value of our intellectual property, our reputation, our business and our operating results. We may have to rely on costly litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights and contractual rights. For example, from 2004 to 2006 we pursued a claim against competitors of ours alleging the infringement of the patented “3-in-1 rollover”. By pursuing this type of litigation, we become exposed to the risk that defendants will attempt to invalidate our right to the subject intellectual property or otherwise limit its scope. If litigation that we initiate is unsuccessful, we may not be able to protect the value of our intellectual property and our business could be adversely affected. In addition, in the litigation we do initiate, the defendants may assert various counterclaims that may subject us to liability. In addition to losing the ability to protect our intellectual property, we may also be liable for damages. We may also face difficulty enforcing our rights in the QuikCash trademark because of the timing and sequence of some of the assignment and renewal actions relating to the trademark. In addition, we may face claims of infringement that could interfere with our ability to use technology or other intellectual property rights that are material to our business operations. In the event a claim of infringement against us is successful, we may be required to pay royalties to use technology or other intellectual property rights that we had been using or we may be required to enter into a license agreement and pay license fees, or we may be required to stop using the technology or other intellectual property rights that we had been using. We may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable time. Any litigation of this type, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to us and diversions of our resources. We may make acquisitions or strategic investments, which involve numerous risks that we may not be able to address without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial problems. In order to obtain new customers in existing markets, expand our operations into new markets, or grow our business through the introduction of new products and services, we may consider acquiring additional businesses, technologies, products and intellectual property. For example, in February 2008, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire CGS; this acquisition has not yet been and may not be consummated. Additionally, we may consider acquiring or forming a bank or other financial services company for the purpose of, among other things, issuing our own credit cards and/or using that bank’s vault cash to supply cash to our ATMs. 25 Table of Contents Acquisitions and strategic investments involve various risks, such as: • difficulty integrating the technologies, operations and personnel from the acquired business; • overestimation of potential synergies or a delay in realizing those synergies; • disruption to our ongoing business, including the diversion of management’s attention and of resources from our principal business; • inability to obtain the desired financial and strategic benefits from the acquisition or investment; • loss of customers of an acquired business; • assumption of unanticipated liabilities; • loss of key employees of an acquired business; and • entering into new markets in which we have limited prior experience. Acquisitions and strategic investments could also result in substantial cash expenditures, the dilutive issuance of our equity securities, the incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities, and amortization expenses related to other intangible assets that could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Acquisitions and strategic investments may also be highly dependent upon the retention and performance of existing management and employees of acquired businesses for the day-to-day management and future operating results of these businesses. Our ability to consummate acquisitions may be impaired by a number of factors, including decreases in the trading price of our common stock, our inability to comply with covenants relating to our existing debt or our inability to incur additional debt that is required to consummate acquisitions or finance the post closing operation of acquired businesses. Our business depends on our ability to introduce new, commercially viable products and services in a timely manner. Our ability to maintain and grow our business will depend upon our ability to introduce successful new products and services in a timely manner. Our product development efforts are based upon a number of complex assumptions, including assumptions relating to gaming patron habits, changes in the popularity and prevalence of certain types of payment methods, anticipated transaction volumes, the costs and time required to bring new products and services to market, and the willingness and ability of both patrons and gaming establishment personnel to use new products and services and bear the economic costs of doing so. Our new products and services may not achieve market acceptance if any of our assumptions are wrong, or for other reasons. Our ability to introduce new products and services may also require regulatory approvals, which may significantly increase the costs associated with developing a new product or service and the time required to introduce a new product or service into the marketplace. In order to obtain these regulatory approvals we may need to modify our products and services which would increase our costs of development and may make our products or services less likely to achieve market acceptance. For example, the commercial success of EDITH depends upon the continued viability of the cashless gaming market segment. A curtailment in the prevalence of cashless gaming opportunities as a result of legislative action, responsible gaming pressures or other factors beyond our control would threaten the commercial success of our cashless gaming products and services. EDITH required extensive laboratory testing and certification and to-date, has only been approved for use in one gaming establishment. This product has been expressly disapproved for use in Nevada. Our ability to grow our business through the introduction of new products and services depends in part on our joint development activities with third parties over whom we have little or no control. We have engaged in joint development projects with third parties in the past and we expect to continue doing so in the future. Joint development can magnify several risks for us, including the loss of control over development of aspects of the jointly developed products and disputes with our joint venture partners. 26 Table of Contents We may suffer significant expense in our exit from the consumer credit business through the discontinuance of the Arriva Card. In 2006, through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Arriva, and together with CIT, a licensed banking institution, and Fiserv, a credit processing service organization, we entered the consumer credit business through the issuance of the Arriva Card, a private label credit card. We have entered into an agreement with CIT whereby it issues the card, extends the credit to the cardholder, and maintains a revolving credit account for the cardholder. When a customer uses the Arriva Card for a transaction, CIT extends credit to the patron for the face amount of transaction and the fee charged by the gaming establishment and acquires the receivable from the customer. Through Arriva, we are required to purchase the originated receivable from CIT three business days from the date the of the loan settlement from CIT. This means that we bear the credit risk of any cardholders’ non-payment. The rate of defaults in consumer credit is influenced by many factors, most of which are beyond our ability to control and some of which are beyond our ability to forecast. Changes in economic measures, including but not limited to unemployment rates, interest rates, exchange rates, real estate market performance, consumer confidence, and inflation may affect cardholders’ ability and willingness to repay amounts borrowed using the card. The fact that a consumer is or has been a creditworthy borrower in the past does not guarantee that he or she will continue to be so in the future. Cardholders who fail to repay their receivables could reduce the amounts we are able to collect through the discontinuance of the Arriva Card, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, cash flows or results of operations. By providing the Arriva Card to consumers, we also have become subject to a variety of state and federal laws governing collection practices, and such collection regulations may impede or even prevent our ability to collect amounts owed to us. These regulations include, but are not limited to, the Federal Truth in Lending Act (Regulation Z) and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (Regulation B). In addition, by providing the Arriva Card to consumers, we have become subject to an extensive array of federal and state statutes and regulations applicable to consumer lending including, but not limited to, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act. If our collection practices while we exit the consumer business are not deemed to be in violation of these rules and regulations we could be subject to fines and penalties which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, cash flows or results of operations. On February 28, 2008, we announced that we would discontinue offering the Arriva Card. As part of this discontinuance, we may experience significant losses from consumers who are unwilling or unable to pay their balances or from the loss we may experience from selling a portion or all of the receivable balance to another entity. We may experience increased delinquencies and credit losses from Arriva Card cardholders whose accounts we have purchased. Because Arriva is required to purchase the receivables three days from acquisition, we face the risk that customers who carry a balance on the Arriva Card will not repay their balances. Rising losses or leading indicators of rising losses (higher delinquencies or bankruptcy rates) may require us to increase our liability to repurchase accounts from CIT and our allowance for bad debt on the accounts we have purchased and may increase our operating losses from Arriva if we are unable to raise revenue or reduce costs to compensate for these higher losses. 27 Table of Contents In particular, we face the following risks in this area: • Missed Payments. We face the risk that customers will miss payments. Receivable charge-offs (including from bankruptcies) are generally preceded by missed payments or other indications of worsening financial condition. Customers may be more likely to miss payments in the event of an economic downturn. In addition, we face the risk that consumer behavior may change (i.e. an increased willingness to fail to repay debt), causing a long-term rise in delinquencies and charge-offs. • Estimates of future losses. We face the risk that we may underestimate our future losses and fail to hold a bad debt allowance sufficient to account for these losses. Incorrect assumptions could lead to material underestimates of future losses and inadequate allowance for bad debt. In addition, our estimate of future losses impacts the amount of reserves we build to account for those losses. The build or release of reserves impacts our current financial results. • Underwriting. We face the risk that our ability to assess the credit worthiness of our customers may diminish. If the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future charge-offs (due, for example, to changes in the competitive environment or in the economy), our credit losses and returns may deteriorate. • Industry practices. We face the risk that our charge-off and delinquency rates may be impacted by industry developments. Our products and services are complex, depend on a myriad of complex networks and technologies and may be subject to software or hardware errors or failures that could lead to an increase in our costs, reduce our revenues or damage our reputation. Our products and services, and the networks and third-party services upon which our products and services are based, are complex and may contain undetected errors or may suffer unexpected failures. We are exposed to the risk of failure of our proprietary computer systems, many of which are deployed, operated, monitored and supported by Infonox, which we do not control. We rely on Infonox to detect and respond to errors and failures in our proprietary computer systems. We rely on NRT, Western Money Systems and Glory for software development and system support of the self-service slot ticket and player point redemption kiosks that incorporate our cash access services. We are exposed to the risk of failure of the computer systems that are owned, operated and managed by USA Payments Systems, which we do not control. USA Payment Systems owns the data centers through which most of our transactions are processed, and we rely on USA Payment Systems to maintain the security and integrity of our transaction data, including backups thereof. We also are exposed to the risk of failure of card association and electronic funds transfer networks that are used to process and settle our transactions. These networks, which are owned and operated by others, are subject to planned and unplanned outages and may suffer degradations in performance during peak processing times. Finally, we are subject to the risk of disruption to, or failure of, the telecommunications infrastructure upon which the interfaces among these systems are based. All of these systems and networks, upon which we rely to provide our services, are potentially vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, natural disasters and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of data, public release of confidential data or the inability to complete patron transactions. The occurrence of these errors or failures, disruptions or unauthorized access could adversely affect our sales to customers, diminish the use of our cash access products and services by patrons, cause us to incur significant repair costs, result in our liability to gaming establishments or their patrons, divert the attention of our development personnel from product development efforts, and cause us to lose credibility with current or prospective customers or patrons. We may not successfully enter new markets, which could lead to an increase in our costs. If and as new and developing domestic markets develop, competition among providers of cash access products and services will intensify. If we attempt to enter these markets, we will have to expand our sales and marketing presence in these markets. In competitive bidding situations, we may not enjoy the advantage of being the incumbent provider of cash access products and services to gaming establishments in these new markets and developers and operators of gaming establishments in these new markets may have pre-existing relationships with our competitors. We may also face the uncertainty of compliance with new or developing regulatory regimes with which we are not currently familiar and oversight by regulators that are not familiar with us, or our business. Each of these risks could materially impair our ability to successfully expand our operations into these new and developing domestic markets. 28 Table of Contents Attempting to enter international markets in which we have not previously operated may expose us to political, economic, tax, legal and regulatory risks not faced by businesses that operate only in the United States. The legal and regulatory regimes of foreign markets and their ramifications on our business are less certain. Our international operations will be subject to a variety of risks, including different regulatory requirements and interpretations, trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, higher rates of fraud, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, difficulty in enforcing or interpreting contracts or legislation, political and economic instability and potentially adverse tax consequences. For example, our entry into Macau SAR was subject to receipt of approvals, licenses or waivers by or from the Monetary Authority of Macau, the Macau Gaming Commission and the Macau Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau, as applicable or deemed necessary by such authorities. If all of such approvals, licenses or waivers were not received, we would not have been able to undertake all of our operations in Macau SAR. Similar difficulties in obtaining approvals, licenses or waivers from the monetary and gaming authorities of other jurisdictions, in addition to other potential regulatory and quasi-regulatory issues that we have not yet ascertained, may arise in other international jurisdictions into which we attempt to enter. In these new markets, our operations will rely on an infrastructure of financial services and telecommunications facilities that may not be sufficient to support our business needs, such as the authorization and settlement services that are required to implement electronic payment transactions and the telecommunications facilities that would enable us to reliably connect our networks to our products at gaming establishments in these new markets. In these new markets, we may additionally provide services based upon interpretations of applicable law, which interpretation may be subject to regulatory or judicial review. These risks, among others, could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. In connection with our expansion into new international markets, we may forge strategic relationships with business partners to assist us. The success of our expansion into these markets therefore may depend in part upon the success of the business partners with whom we forge these strategic relationships. If we do not successfully form strategic relationships with the right business partners or if we are not able to overcome cultural differences or differences in business practices, our ability to penetrate these new international markets will suffer. We are also subject to the risk that the domestic or international markets that we attempt to enter or expand into may not develop as quickly as anticipated, or at all. The development of new gaming markets is subject to political, social, regulatory and economic forces beyond our control. The expansion of gaming activities in new markets can be very controversial and may depend heavily on the support and sponsorship of local government. Changes in government leadership, failure to obtain requisite voter support in referendums, failure of legislators to enact enabling legislation and limitations on the volume of gaming activity that is permitted in particular markets may inhibit the development of new markets. Our estimates of the potential future transaction volumes in new markets are based on a variety of assumptions, which may prove to be inaccurate. To the extent that we overestimate the potential of a new market, incorrectly gauge the timing of the development of a new market, or fail to anticipate the differences between a new market and our existing markets, we may fail in our strategy of growing our business by expanding into new markets. Moreover, if we are unable to meet the needs of our existing customers as they enter markets that we do not currently serve; our relationships with these customers could be harmed. We may encounter difficulties managing our growth, which could adversely affect our operating results. We will need to effectively manage the expansion of our operations in order to execute our growth strategy of entering into new markets, expanding in existing markets and introducing new products and services. Growth will strain our existing resources. It is possible that our management, employees, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to accommodate future growth. In this situation, we will have to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. If we are unable to effectively manage our growth, our operations, financial results and liquidity may be adversely affected. An unexpectedly high level of chargebacks, as the result of fraud or otherwise, could adversely affect our cash advance business. When patrons use our cash access services, we either dispense cash or produce a negotiable instrument that can be exchanged for cash. If a completed cash access transaction is subsequently disputed and if we are unsuccessful in establishing the validity of the transaction, we may not be able to collect payment for such transaction and such transaction becomes a chargeback. One of the major credit card associations has allowed us to complete credit card cash advance transactions at our ACMs so long as we assume chargeback liability for any transaction in which we do not obtain a contemporaneous cardholder signature, which may result in increased chargeback liability. An increased level of chargebacks could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Moreover, in the event that we incur chargebacks in excess of specified levels, First Data will have the right to terminate its indemnification obligations to BAMS, and we could lose our no-cost sponsorship into the card associations. In addition, in the event that we incur chargebacks in excess of specified levels, we could be censured by the card associations by way of fines or otherwise. 29 Table of Contents In certain foreign regions in which we currently operate or may operate in the future, new card security features have been developed as a fraud deterrent. An example of such feature is known as chip-and-pin, which requires merchant terminals to be capable of obtaining an authorization through a chip-and-pin entry mode in addition to traditional magnetic stripe and keyed entry modes. Currently, we are in the process of upgrading our devices in certain international jurisdictions to accept these new technologies. In the interim, we are exposed to potential additional chargeback risks arising from our inability to fully integrate these new card security features in certain of the international jurisdictions in which we operate. The card associations have mandated that in all jurisdictions other than the United States and Canada, chargeback liability for those transactions authorized through non-chip-and-pin entry modes where chip-and-pin should be supported will be borne by the applicable merchant, i.e. us, effective January 1, 2007. The card associations have similarly mandated that such chargeback liability for those transactions that occur in Canada will be borne by the applicable merchant, i.e. us, effective January 4, 2010. Additionally, we intend to provide our services in international markets in which we have not previously operated and have no experience as to chargebacks. Accordingly, we may be exposed to higher than anticipated chargeback liability, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, cash flows or results of operations. A material increase in market interest rates or changing regulations could adversely affect our ATM business. We obtain a supply of cash for our ATMs from Bank of America. Pursuant to our contract with Bank of America, we are obligated to pay a monthly fee that is based upon the amount of cash used to supply our ATMs and a market interest rate. Assuming no change in the amount of cash used to supply our ATMs, an increase in market interest rates will result in an increase in the monthly fee that we must pay to obtain this supply of cash, thereby increasing our ATM operating costs. Any increase in the amount of cash required to supply our ATMs would magnify the impact of an increase in market interest rates. An increase in interest rates may result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, we incurred approximately $15.9 million and $15.7 million, respectively, in aggregate fees to Bank of America for this supply of cash. Our ATM services are subject to the applicable state banking regulations in each jurisdiction in which we operate ATMs. Our ATM services may also be subject to local regulations relating to the imposition of daily limits on the amounts that may be withdrawn from ATMs, the location of ATMs and our ability to surcharge cardholders who use our ATMs. These regulations may impose significant burdens on our ability to operate ATMs profitably in some locations, or at all. Moreover, because these regulations are subject to change, we may be forced to modify our ATM operations in a manner inconsistent with the assumptions upon which we relied when entering into contracts to provide ATM services at gaming establishments. An unexpected increase in check warranty expenses could adversely affect our check warranty business. We currently rely on TeleCheck to provide check warranty services to many of our customers. When a gaming establishment obtains an authorization from TeleCheck pursuant to its check warranty service, TeleCheck warrants payment on the patron’s check. If the patron’s check is subsequently dishonored upon presentment for payment, TeleCheck purchases the dishonored check from the gaming establishment for its face amount. Pursuant to the terms of our contract with TeleCheck, we share a portion of the loss associated with these dishonored checks. Although this contract limits the loss percentage of the dishonored checks to which we are exposed, there is no limit on the aggregate dollar amount to which we are exposed, which is a function of the face amount of checks warranted. TeleCheck manages and mitigates these dishonored checks through the use of risk analytics and collection efforts, including the additional fees that it is entitled to collect from check writers of dishonored checks. During the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, our warranty expenses with respect to TeleCheck’s check warranty service were $5.7 million and $8.4 million, respectively. We have no control over TeleCheck’s decision to warrant payment on a particular check and we have limited visibility into TeleCheck’s collection activities. As a result, we may incur an unexpectedly high level of check warranty expenses at any time, and if we do, we may suffer a material adverse effect to our business or results of operations. As an alternative to TeleCheck’s check warranty service, we have developed our own Central Credit check warranty service that is based upon our own proprietary information, data from third-party databases, and third-party risk analytics and actuarial assumptions. If these risk analytics or actuarial assumptions are ineffective, we may incur an unexpectedly high level of check warranty expenses which may have a material adverse effect on our business or operating results. 30 Table of Contents We operate our business in regions subject to natural disasters, including hurricanes. We may suffer casualty losses as a result of a natural disaster, and any interruption to our business resulting from a natural disaster will adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We operate our business primarily through equipment, including CasinoCash Plus 3-in-1 ATMs, ACMs and QuikCash kiosks, which we install on the premises of gaming establishments and that patrons use to access cash for gaming. Accordingly, a substantial portion of our physical assets are located in locations beyond our direct control. Our business may be adversely affected by any damage to or loss of equipment that we install at gaming establishments or the cash contained therein resulting from theft, vandalism, terrorism, flood, fire or any other natural disaster. Any losses or damage that we suffer may not be subject to coverage under our insurance policies. In addition to these casualty losses, our business is exclusive to gaming establishments and is dependent on consumer demand for gaming. In the event of a natural disaster, the operations of gaming establishments could be negatively impacted or consumer demand for gaming could decline, or both, and as a result, our business could be disrupted. For example, we believe that our revenues and results of operations in Louisiana and Mississippi were reduced in 2006 from what we would otherwise have expected as a result of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and that reduction may continue in the future. Any interruption to our business resulting from a natural disaster will adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We do not carry any business interruption insurance. We may incur penalties in connection with the administration of our benefit plans. Certain of the health, welfare and retirement plans that we maintain for the benefit of our employees obligate us to file certain reports with the Department of Labor, Internal Revenue Service and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. Although we have filed the required reports for some of our benefit plans, we have not filed the required reports for others. As a result, we may incur penalties. Risks related to the industry Economic downturns, a decline in the popularity of gaming or changes in the demographic profile of gaming patrons could reduce the number of patrons that use our services or the amounts of cash that they access using our services. We provide our cash access products and related services exclusively to gaming establishments for the purpose of enabling their patrons to access cash. As a result, our business depends on consumer demand for gaming. Gaming is a discretionary leisure activity, and participation in discretionary leisure activities has in the past and may in the future decline during economic downturns because consumers have less disposable income. Therefore, during periods of economic contraction, our revenues may decrease while some of our costs remain fixed, resulting in decreased earnings. Gaming activity may also decline based on changes in consumer confidence related to general economic conditions or outlook, fears of war, future acts of terrorism, or other factors. A reduction in tourism could also result in a decline in gaming activity. Finally, a legislature or regulatory authority may prohibit or significantly restrict gaming activities in its jurisdiction. A decline in gaming activity as a result of these or any other factors would have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Changes in consumer preferences could also harm our business. Gaming competes with other leisure activities as a form of consumer entertainment and may lose popularity as new leisure activities arise or as other leisure activities become more popular. In addition, gaming in traditional gaming establishments competes with Internet-based gaming for gaming patrons, which is currently not lawful in the United States of America. The popularity and acceptance of gaming is also influenced by the prevailing social mores and changes in social mores could result in reduced acceptance of gaming as a leisure activity. To the extent that the popularity of gaming in traditional gaming establishments declines as a result of either of these factors, the demand for our cash access services may decline and our business may be harmed. Aside from the general popularity of gaming, the demographic profile of gaming patrons changes over time. The gaming habits and use of cash access services varies with the demographic profile of gaming patrons. For example, a local patron may visit a gaming establishment regularly but limit his or her play to the amount of cash that he or she brings to the gaming establishment. In contrast, a vacationing gaming patron that visits the gaming establishment infrequently may play much larger amounts and have a greater need to use cash access services. To the extent that the demographic profile of gaming patrons in the markets we serve either narrows or migrates towards patrons who use cash access services less frequently or for lesser amounts of cash, the demand for our cash access services may decline and our business may be harmed. 31 Table of Contents Changes in consumer willingness to pay a fee to access their funds could reduce the demand for our cash access products and services. Our business depends upon the willingness of patrons to pay a fee to access their own funds on the premises of a gaming establishment. In most retail environments, consumers typically do not pay an additional fee for using non-cash payment methods such as credit cards; POS debit cards, or checks. In order to access cash in a gaming establishment, however, patrons must pay service charges to access their funds. Gaming patrons could bring more cash with them to gaming establishments, or access cash outside of gaming establishments without paying a fee for the convenience of not having to leave the gaming establishment. To the extent that gaming patrons become unwilling to pay these fees for convenience or lower cost cash access alternatives become available, the demand for cash access services within gaming establishments will decline and our business could suffer. We are subject to extensive governmental gaming regulation, which may harm our business. We are subject to a variety of regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Most of the gaming regulators in jurisdictions in which we operate distinguish between gaming-related suppliers and vendors, such as manufacturers of slot machine or other gaming devices, and non-gaming suppliers and vendors, such as food and beverage purveyors, construction contractors and laundry and linen suppliers. In these jurisdictions, we are generally characterized as a non-gaming supplier or vendor and we must obtain a non-gaming supplier’s or vendor’s license, qualification or approval. The obtaining of these licenses, qualifications or approvals and the regulations imposed on non-gaming suppliers and vendors are typically less stringent than for gaming related suppliers and vendors. However, a few of the gaming regulators in jurisdictions in which we do business do not distinguish between gaming-related and non-gaming related suppliers and vendors, and in those jurisdictions we currently are subject to the same stringent licensing, qualification and approval requirements and regulations that are imposed upon vendors and suppliers that would be characterized as gaming-related in other jurisdictions. Such requirements include licensure or finding of suitability for some of our officers, directors and beneficial owners of our securities. If gaming regulatory authorities were to find any such officer, director or beneficial owner unsuitable, or if any such officer, director, or beneficial owner fails to comply with any licensure requirements, we would be required to sever our relationship with that person. Severing our relationship with a person may require such individual ceasing to provide services to us in any capacity, including as an officer, director, employee or consultant, such person divesting himself, herself or itself of all or substantially all of its equity interest in us, and we refraining from conducting any business or maintaining any business relationship with such person or any entity that such person is a director, officer or stockholder of or otherwise affiliated with. Any of the foregoing could be costly to the Company and materially disruptive of its management and operations. Any loss or denial of licensure or finding of unsuitability in any one jurisdiction would likely result in similar adverse regulatory actions in several other jurisdictions, resulting in a domino effect of adverse regulatory actions. The effects of the internal investigation that we announced on November 14, 2007 have resulted in heightened scrutiny from gaming regulators and an increased risk of regulatory intervention. Some public issuances of securities and other transactions by us also require the approval of regulatory authorities. If we must obtain a gaming-related supplier’s or vendor’s license, qualification or approval because of the introduction of new products (such as products related to cashless gaming) or services or because of a change in the laws or regulations, or interpretation thereof, our business could be materially adversely affected. This increased regulation over our business could include, but is not limited to: requiring the licensure or finding of suitability in many jurisdictions of any officer, director, key employee or beneficial owner of our securities; the termination or disassociation with any officer, director, key employee or beneficial owner of our securities that fails to file an application or to obtain a license or finding of suitability; the submission of detailed financial and operating reports; submission of reports of material loans, leases and financing; and, requiring regulatory approval of some commercial transactions such as the transfer or pledge of equity interests in us. Prior changes in our ownership, management and corporate structure, including the recapitalization of our ownership and our conversion from a limited liability company to a corporation in 2004, required us to notify many of the state and tribal gaming regulators under whose jurisdiction we operate. In many cases, those regulators have asked us for further information and explanation of these changes. To date, we have satisfied some of these inquiries, and are continuing to cooperate with those that are ongoing. Given the magnitude of the changes in our ownership that resulted from recapitalization, we were required to reapply for new permits or licenses in many jurisdictions but we were not required to discontinue our operation during the period of re-application. 32 Table of Contents Any new gaming license or related approval that may be required in the future may not be granted, and our existing licenses may be revoked, suspended, limited or may not be renewed. In some jurisdictions we are in the process of obtaining licenses and have yet to receive final approval of such licenses from the applicable regulatory authority. In these jurisdictions, we operate under temporary licenses or without a license. We may not be issued a license in these jurisdictions. Regulatory authorities at the federal, state, local and tribal levels have broad powers with respect to the licensing of gaming-related activities and may revoke, suspend, condition or limit our licenses, impose substantial fines and take other actions against us or the gaming establishments that are our customers, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Any new gaming license or related approval that may be required in the future may not be granted, and our existing licenses may not be renewed or may be revoked, suspended or limited. If additional gaming regulations are adopted in a jurisdiction in which we operate, such regulations could impose restrictions or costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business. From time to time, various proposals are introduced in the legislatures of some of the jurisdictions in which we have existing or planned operations that, if enacted, could adversely affect the tax, regulatory, operational or other aspects of the gaming industry or cash access in the gaming industry. Legislation of this type may be enacted in the future. In addition, some of the new products and services that we may develop cannot be offered in the absence of regulatory approval of the product or service or licensing of us, or both. For example, our EDITH cashless gaming product has to date only been approved by the gaming regulators for use at one gaming establishment and cannot be used at any other location unless and until we receive approval from the appropriate authority in such additional location. These approvals could require that we and our officers, directors or ultimate beneficial owners obtain a license or be found suitable and that the product or service be approved after testing and review. We may fail to obtain any such approvals in the future. When contracting with tribal owned or controlled gaming establishments, we become subject to tribal laws and regulations that may differ materially from the non-tribal laws and regulations under which we generally operate. In addition to tribal gaming regulations that may require us to provide disclosures or obtain licenses or permits to conduct our business on tribal lands, we may also become subject to tribal laws that govern our contracts. These tribal governing laws may not provide us with processes, procedures and remedies that enable us to enforce our rights as effectively and advantageously as the processes, procedures and remedies that would be afforded to us under non-tribal laws, or to enforce our rights at all. Many tribal laws permit redress to a tribal adjudicatory body to resolve disputes; however, such redress is largely untested in our experience. We may be precluded from enforcing our rights against a tribal body under the legal doctrine of sovereign immunity. A change in tribal laws and regulations or our inability to obtain required licenses or licenses to operate on tribal lands or enforce our contract rights under tribal law could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The cash access industry is subject to change, and we must keep pace with the changes to successfully compete. The demand for our products and services is affected by new and evolving technology and industry standards. Cash access services are based on existing financial services and payment methods, which are also continually evolving. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully anticipate, develop and introduce new cash access services based on emerging financial services and payment methods. Stored value cards, Internet-based payment methods and the use of portable consumer devices such as personal digital assistants and mobile telephones are examples of evolving payment technologies that could impact our business. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully develop and introduce new cash access products and services and to enhance our existing products and services to respond to changes in technology and industry standards on a timely basis. The products or services that we choose to develop may not achieve market acceptance or obtain any necessary regulatory approval. In addition, alternative products, services or technologies may replace our products and services or render them obsolete. If we are unable to develop new products or services or enhance existing products or services in a timely and cost-effective manner in response to technological or market changes, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. The cash access industry also changes based on changing consumer preferences. Our failure to recognize or keep pace with changing preferences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. For example, we have observed a decline in the volume of check cashing at gaming establishments over time as patron familiarity and comfort with credit card cash advances, POS debit card transactions and ATM cash withdrawal transactions has increased. To the extent that we continue to rely on check warranty services for a substantial portion of our business, a continued decline in check cashing volume could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 33 Table of Contents Growth of the gaming industry in any market is subject to political and regulatory developments that are difficult to anticipate. We expect a substantial portion of our future growth to result from the general expansion of the gaming industry. The expansion of gaming activities in new markets can be very controversial and may depend heavily on the support of national and local governments. Changes in government leadership, failure to obtain requisite voter support in referenda, failure of legislators to enact enabling legislation and limitations on the volume of gaming activity that is permitted in particular markets may prevent us from expanding our operations into new markets. A failure by the gaming industry to expand at the rate that we expect could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth rates, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. The United Kingdom (“UK”) Gambling Act 2005 (the “Gambling Act”) entered into force as law on September 1, 2007. The UK Gambling Act may be interpreted as prohibiting our provision of credit card cash advance services in UK casinos. Because of this interpretation by the UK Gambling Commission and their regulatory body, the Department of Culture, Media and Sport, we ceased processing credit card cash advance transactions in UK casinos as of September 1, 2007. If a similar position is taken by gaming regulators in other jurisdictions, we could be subject to material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and operating results. Undertaking judicial review of such determinations or interpretations, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to us, and diversions of our resources. Finally, if we were to resume providing credit card cash advance transactions in gaming establishments in the UK following a judicial interpretation or regulatory action that prohibits us from doing so, we could be subject to prosecution that results in harm to our reputation and the imposition of penalties or fines. A governmental shutdown of a gaming regulatory body in a jurisdiction where we operate may cause a disruption in our business and harm our operating results. On July 5, 2006, Atlantic City casinos were forced to suspend their gaming operations due to the shutdown of the New Jersey Casino Control Commission. The New Jersey State government stopped non-essential governmental functions because the legislature had not adopted a new budget by the constitutional deadline. One such non-essential governmental function was the operation of the New Jersey Casino Control Commission, which regulates gaming in Atlantic City’s casinos. New Jersey State law prohibits the operation of casinos without the supervision of New Jersey Casino Control Commission employees, so the casinos were forced to suspend their gaming operations. Another shutdown of the New Jersey Casino Control Commission or a similar shutdown of a regulatory gaming body in another jurisdiction where we do business may disrupt our ability to do business and adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Many of the financial services that we provide are subject to extensive rules and regulations, which may harm our business. Our Central Credit gaming patron credit bureau services are subject to the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 and similar state laws. Our QuikCredit service and TeleCheck’s and our collection practices in connection with dishonored checks with respect to which TeleCheck or Central Credit has issued authorizations pursuant to TeleCheck’s or Central Credit’s check warranty service, are subject to the Fair Debt Collections Practices Act and applicable state laws relating to debt collection. All of our cash access services and patron marketing services are subject to the privacy provisions of state and federal law, including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. Our POS debit card transactions and ATM withdrawal services are subject to the Electronic Fund Transfer Act. Our ATM services are subject to the applicable state banking regulations in each jurisdiction in which we operate ATMs. Our ATM services may also be subject to local regulations relating to the imposition of daily limits on the amounts that may be withdrawn from ATMs, the location of ATMs and our ability to surcharge cardholders who use our ATMs. The cash access services we provide are subject to recordkeeping and reporting obligations under the Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001. In most gaming establishments, our cash access services are provided through gaming establishment cashier personnel, in which case the gaming establishments are required to file CTRs SAR. In a limited number of gaming establishments, we provide our cash access services directly to patrons at satellite cashiers or booths that we staff and operate, in which case we are required to file CTRs and SARs on a timely basis. Additionally, as of December 31, 2006, IPS commenced required notification of FINCen as to our agency relationship with IPS, which relationship was not previously reported to FINCen. As a result of such notification, we are required to commence the filing of SARs with respect to transactions completed at all gaming establishments at which our cash access services are provided and may be required to additionally file SARs with respect to transactions completed during the previous nine month period at all such gaming establishments. If we are found to be noncompliant in any way with these laws, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties. In jurisdictions in which we serve as a check casher or offer our QuikCredit service, we are subject to the applicable state licensing requirements and regulations governing check cashing activities and deferred deposit service providers. Banking regulators in Rhode Island have previously questioned whether our provision of check verification and guarantee services to gaming establishments in Rhode Island required us to hold a check cashing license 34 Table of Contents and currently question whether our provision of cash access services to gaming establishments in Rhode Island require us to hold a check cashing license. It is our position that our check verification and guarantee services merely support a gaming establishment’s check cashing activities, but do not themselves constitute check cashing and that we therefore do not need a check cashing license to provide such services. It is also our position that our cash access services, which involve the purchase and sale of a negotiable instrument, do not constitute check cashing and that we therefore do not need a check cashing license to provide such services. Our entry into the consumer credit business through the provision of the Arriva Card requires us to maintain a relationship with a licensed banking institution to issue Arriva Cards and subjects us to compliance with numerous state and federal laws governing consumer lending, debt collection practices and credit reporting. In addition, our relationship with IPS expires on December 31, 2009. On February 22, 2007, IPS’ parent company, First Data, announced that it will be exiting the official check and money order business over the course of the next two to three years. We are considering obtaining money transmitter licenses in many states, which would cause us to become subject to state licensing requirements and regulations governing money transmitters. We are subject to formal or informal audits, inquiries or reviews from time to time by the regulatory authorities that enforce these financial services rules and regulations. In the event that any regulatory authority determines that the manner in which we provide cash access services, patron marketing services, gaming patron credit bureau services or private label credit cards is not in compliance with existing rules and regulations, or the regulatory authorities adopt new rules or regulations that prohibit or restrict the manner in which we provide cash access services, patron marketing services, gaming patron credit bureau services or private label credit cards, we may be forced to modify the manner in which we operate, or stop processing certain types of cash access transactions, providing patron marketing services, gaming patron credit bureau services or private label credit cards altogether. We may also be required to pay substantial penalties and fines if we fail to comply with applicable rules and regulations. For example, if we fail to file CTRs or SARs on a timely basis or if we are found to be noncompliant in any way with either the Bank Secrecy Act or the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties. In addition, our failure to comply with applicable rules and regulations could subject us to private litigation. Any such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Following the events of September 11, 2001, the United States and other governments have imposed and are considering a variety of new regulations focused on the detection and prevention of money laundering and money transmitting to or from terrorists and other criminals. Compliance with these new regulations may impact our business operations or increase our costs. As we develop new products and services, we may become subject to additional regulations. For example, in the event that we form or acquire a bank or industrial loan company, we would become subject to a number of additional banking and financial institution regulations, which may include the Bank Holding Company Act. These additional regulations could substantially restrict the nature of the business in which we may engage and the nature of the businesses in which we may invest. In addition, changes in current laws or regulations and future laws or regulations may restrict our ability to continue our current methods or operation or expand our operations and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Consumer privacy laws may change, requiring us to change our business practices or expend significant amounts on compliance with such laws. Our patron marketing services depend on our ability to collect and use non-public personal information relating to patrons who use our products and services and the transactions they consummate using our services. We are required by federal and state privacy laws and rules to safeguard and protect the privacy of such information, to make disclosures to patrons regarding our privacy and information sharing policies and, in some cases, to provide patrons an opportunity to “opt out” of the use of their information for certain purposes. The failure or circumvention of the means by which we safeguard and protect the privacy of information we gather may result in the dissemination of non-public personal information, which may harm our reputation and may expose us to liability to the affected individuals and regulatory enforcement proceedings or fines. Regulators reviewing our policies and practices may require us to modify our practices in a material or immaterial manner or impose fines or other penalties if they believe that our policies and practices do not meet the necessary standard. To the extent that our patron-marketing services have in the past failed or now or in the future fail to comply with applicable law, our privacy policies or the notices that we provide to patrons, we may become subject to actions by a regulatory authority or patrons which cause us to pay monetary penalties or require us to modify the manner in which we provide patron-marketing services. To the extent that patrons exercise their right to “opt out,” our ability to leverage existing and future databases of information would be curtailed. Consumer and data privacy laws are evolving, and due to recent high profile thefts and losses of sensitive consumer information from protected databases, such laws may be broadened in their scope and application, impose additional requirements and restrictions on gathering, encrypting and using patron information or narrow the types of information that may be collected or used for marketing or other purposes or require patrons to “opt-in” to the use of their information for specific purposes, or impose additional fines or potentially costly compliance requirements which will hamper the value of our patron-marketing services. 35 Table of Contents Responsible gaming pressures could result in a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Responsible gaming pressures can have a similar effect on us as governmental gaming regulation. Our ability to expand our business and introduce new products and services depends in part on the support of, or lack of opposition from, social responsibility organizations that are dedicated to addressing problem gaming. If we are unable to garner the support of responsible gaming organizations or if we face substantial opposition from responsible gaming organizations, we may face additional difficulties in sustaining our existing customer relationships, establishing new customer relationships, obtaining required regulatory approvals for new products or services, or providing our services into new markets, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Lawsuits could be filed against gaming establishments and other gaming related product and service providers on behalf of problem gamblers. We may be named in such litigation because we provide patrons the ability to access their cash in gaming establishments. This litigation could develop as individual complaints or as mass tort or class action claims. We would vigorously defend ourselves in any such litigation, and this defense could result in substantial expense to us, and distraction of our management. The outcome of any such litigation would be substantially uncertain, and it is possible that our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially affected by an unfavorable outcome against either us, or our gaming establishment customers. Risk related to our capital structure Our common stock has only been publicly traded since September 22, 2005 and we expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially. There has been a public market for our common stock since September 22, 2005. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including those described above under “— Risks related to our business,” “— Risks related to the industry” and the following: • our failure to maintain our current customers, including because of consolidation in the gaming industry; • increases in commissions paid to gaming establishments as a result of competition; • increases in interchange rates or processing or other fees paid by us or decreases in reverse interchange rates; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our or our competitors’ revenue, operating results or growth rate; • our inability to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights; • any adverse results in litigation initiated by us or by others against us; • our inability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness as they become due or our inability to undertake actions that might otherwise benefit us based on the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture for our senior subordinated notes; • the loss of a significant supplier or strategic partner, or the failure of a significant supplier or strategic partner to provide the goods or services that we rely on them for; • our inability to introduce successful, new products and services in a timely manner or the introduction of new products or services by our competitors that reduce the demand for our products and services; • our failure to successfully enter new markets or the failure of new markets to develop in the time and manner that we anticipate; 36 Table of Contents • announcements by our competitors of significant new contracts or contract renewals or of new products or services; • changes in general economic conditions, financial markets, the gaming industry or the payments processing industry; • the trading volume of our common stock; • sales of common stock or other actions by our current officers, directors and stockholders; • acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures involving us or our competitors; • future sales of our common stock or other securities; • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates or recommendations by analysts; • our failure to meet the revenue, net income or earnings per share estimates of securities analysts or investors; • additions or departures of key personnel; • terrorist acts, theft, vandalism, fires, floods or other natural disasters; and • rumors or speculation as to any of the above which we may be unable to confirm or deny due to disclosure restrictions imposed on us by law or which we otherwise deem imprudent to comment upon. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular businesses. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Following our public announcement on November 14, 2007 of an internal investigation by an independent committee of our Board of Directors and the delay in filing our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, the trading price of our common stock suffered a significant decline. Securities class action litigation is often brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. The announcement of the investigation and decline in trading price of our common stock have exposed us to greater risks associated with securities class action litigation, which could be time consuming, expensive, and may distract management from the conduct of our business. Any adverse resolution of such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On December 12, 2007, a derivative action was filed by a stockholder on behalf of the Company in the United States District Court, District of Nevada, against our current directors, one of our former directors, our former chief executive officer and our former chief financial officer, alleging breach of fiduciary duties, waste of corporate assets, unjust enrichment and violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. On February 8, 2008, an additional derivative action was filed by a stockholder on behalf of the Company in the United States District Court, District of Nevada, against our current directors, one of our former directors, our former chief executive officer and our former chief financial officer, alleging breach of fiduciary duties, insider trading and waste of corporate assets. These actions include claims for, among other things, damages in favor of the Company, certain corporate actions to purportedly improve the Company’s corporate governance, and an award of costs and expenses to the plaintiff stockholders including attorneys’ fees. The Company has indemnification agreements with each of the individual defendants that may cause the Company to incur expenses associated with the defense of these actions and that may also protect such individuals from liability to the Company. Their derivative actions could be time consuming, expensive, and may distract management from the conduct of our business. Any adverse resolution of these derivative actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 37 Table of Contents Future sales of our common stock may cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of additional shares of our common stock by us or our stockholders or the perception that these sales could occur. Certain stockholders have the right to require us to register their shares of our common stock. If we propose to register any of our securities under the Securities Act of 1933 either for our own account or for the accounts of other stockholders, subject to some conditions and limitations, the holders of registration rights will be entitled to include their shares of common stock in the registered offering. In addition, holders of registration rights may require us on not more than five occasions to file a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 with respect to their shares of common stock. Further, the holders of registration rights may require us to register their shares on Form S-3 if and when we are eligible to use this form. We are required to pay the costs and expenses of the registration (other than underwriting discounts and commissions and fees) and sale of all such shares of common stock. In the future, we will also issue additional shares or options to purchase additional shares to our employees, directors and consultants, in connection with corporate alliances or acquisitions, and in follow-on offerings to raise additional capital. Based on all of these factors, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales could reduce the market price of our common stock. In addition, future sales of our common stock by our stockholders could make it more difficult for us to sell additional shares of our common stock or other securities in the future. Messrs. Maskatiya and Cucinotta and entities affiliated with Summit Partners possess significant voting power and may take actions that are not in the best interests of our other stockholders. As of December 31, 2007, Messrs. Maskatiya and Cucinotta and entities affiliated with Summit Partners owned or controlled shares representing, in the aggregate, approximately 45.9% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly, Messrs. Maskatiya and Cucinotta and these entities affiliated with Summit Partners will exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval of our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combinations. Mr. Maskatiya’s and Mr. Cucinotta’s and these entities’ ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company or discouraging others from making tender offers for our shares, which could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. These actions may be taken even if other stockholders oppose them and even if they are not in the interests of other stockholders. Conflicts of interest may arise because some of our directors are also directly or indirectly our controlling stockholders. Two of our directors are principals of M&C International and two of our other directors are partners and members of various entities affiliated with Summit Partners. We depend on services provided by entities affiliated with M&C International or its principals to provide many of the financial services that we offer to patrons. Summit Partners and its affiliates may invest in entities that directly or indirectly compete with us or companies in which they currently invest may begin competing with us. As a result of these relationships, when conflicts between the interests of M&C International or Summit Partners, on the one hand, and the interests of our other stockholders, on the other hand, arise, these directors may not be disinterested. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent transactions that many stockholders may favor. Some provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying, discouraging, or preventing a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable or a change in our management or our Board of Directors. These provisions: • divide our Board of Directors into three separate classes serving staggered three-year terms, which will have the effect of requiring at least two annual stockholder meetings instead of one, to replace a majority of our directors, which could have the effect of delaying of preventing a change in our control or management; • provide that special meetings of stockholders can only be called by our Board of Directors, Chairman of the Board or Chief Executive Officer. In addition, the business permitted to be conducted at any special meeting of stockholders is limited to the business specified in the notice of such meeting to the stockholders; • provide for an advance notice procedure with regard to business to be brought before a meeting of stockholders which may delay or preclude stockholders from bringing matters before a meeting of stockholders or from making nominations for directors at a meeting of stockholders, which could delay or deter takeover attempts or changes in management; 38 Table of Contents • eliminate the right of stockholders to act by written consent so that all stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called meeting; • provide that directors may only be removed for cause with the approval of stockholders holding a majority of our outstanding voting stock; • provide that vacancies on our Board of Directors may be filled by a majority, although less than a quorum, of directors in office and that our Board of Directors may fix the number of directors by resolution; • allow our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock and that otherwise could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights and the right to approve or not to approve an acquisition or other change in control, of the holders of common stock, without any further vote or action by the stockholders; and • do not provide for cumulative voting for our directors, which may make it more difficult for stockholders owning less than a majority of our stock to elect any directors to our Board of Directors. In addition, we are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which provides, subject to enumerated exceptions, that if a person acquires 15% or more of our voting stock, the person is an “interested stockholder” and may not engage in “business combinations” with us for a period of three years from the time the person acquired 15% or more of our voting stock. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive our stockholders of the opportunity to sell shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a premium could reduce the price of our common stock. If we fail to attract or retain independent directors, we may face unfavorable public disclosure, a halt in the trading of our common stock and delisting from the New York Stock Exchange. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations of the New York Stock Exchange, we are required to establish and maintain a board of directors consisting of a majority of independent directors and an audit committee consisting entirely of independent directors. A majority of our directors satisfy the applicable independence requirements. In the future, if we fail to maintain a board of directors consisting of a majority of independent directors, or fail to maintain independent audit committee members, we will fail to comply with the corporate governance listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange and the SEC, which we would be required to publicly disclose, which may in turn cause a reduction in the trading price of our common stock. In addition, our failure to comply with these corporate governance listing requirements may also result in a halt in the trading of our common stock and the delisting of our common stock from the New York Stock Exchange, which may result in there being no public market for shares of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 