ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are significant factors known to us that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or operating results. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. We have a history of operating losses and negative cash flow. Our operations to date have consumed substantial amounts of cash, and we expect this condition to continue for at least the next 9 months. We had an accumulated deficit of $614.6 million at December 31, 2006. Our ability to achieve cash flow positive operations will be influenced by many factors, including the extent and duration of our future operating losses, the level and timing of future sales and expenditures, market acceptance of new products, the results and scope of ongoing research and development projects, competing technologies, market and regulatory developments and the future course of intellectual property litigation. If adequate cash flow is not available to us, our business will be negatively impacted. Some of our products are emerging technologies or have been recently introduced into the market and may not achieve market acceptance once they are introduced into their markets, which could adversely affect our business. Even if we are successful in developing safe and effective products that receive regulatory approval, such products may not gain market acceptance. Our market share for our existing products may not grow, and our products that have yet to be introduced may not be accepted in the market. We will need to invest in significant training and education of our physician customers to achieve market acceptance of our products with no assurance of success. In order for any of our products to be accepted, we must address the needs of potential customers and our customers must believe our products are effective and commercially 25 beneficial. However, even if customers accept our products, this acceptance may not translate into sales if our competitors have developed similar products that our customers prefer. If our products do not gain market acceptance or if our customers prefer our competitors’ products, our business could be adversely affected. Delays in product introductions could adversely affect our net sales. The endovascular device market is highly competitive and designs change often to adjust to patent constraints and to changing market preferences. Therefore, product life cycles are relatively short. As a result, any delays in our product launches may significantly impede our ability to enter or compete in a given market and may reduce the sales that we are able to generate from these products. As discussed under the heading “Item 1. Business,” we plan to introduce additional products during 2007 which we expect to result in net sales. We may experience delays in any phase of a product launch, including during research and development, clinical trials, regulatory approvals, manufacturing, marketing and the education process. In addition, the suppliers of products that we do not manufacture can suffer similar delays, which could cause delays in our product introductions. If we suffer delays in product introductions, our net sales could be adversely affected. If third parties claim that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights, we may incur liabilities and costs and may have to redesign or discontinue selling the affected product. The medical device industry is litigious with respect to patents and other intellectual property rights. Companies operating in our industry routinely seek patent protection for their product designs, and many of our principal competitors have large patent portfolios. Companies in the medical device industry have used intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. We face the risk of claims that we have infringed on third parties’ intellectual property rights. Prior to launching major new products in our key markets, we normally evaluate existing intellectual property rights. However, our competitors may also have filed for patent protection which is not as yet a matter of public knowledge or claim trademark rights that have not been revealed through our availability searches. Our efforts to identify and avoid infringing on third parties’ intellectual property rights may not always be successful. Any claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could: · be expensive and time consuming to defend; · result in us being required to pay significant damages to third parties; · cause us to cease making or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; · require us to redesign, reengineer or rebrand our products, if feasible; 26 · require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property, which agreements may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all; · divert the attention of our management; or · result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of the affected products until resolution of the litigation. In addition, new patents obtained by our competitors could threaten a product’s continued life in the market even after it has already been introduced. We are currently a party to a number of intellectual property claims, which are costly to defend and the resolution of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we do not infringe any patents or other proprietary rights held by third parties. In that regard, in March 2005 we were served with a complaint by Boston Scientific Corporation and one of its affiliates which claims that some of our products, including our SpideRX Embolic Protection Device, infringe certain of Boston Scientific’s patents. Boston Scientific is seeking monetary damages from us and to enjoin us from the alleged infringement. Subsequently, we added counterclaims for infringement of three of our patents, Boston Scientific has added two patents to its claims, as well as a claim against us for misappropriation of trade secrets. Prior to the acquisition of Dendron GmbH by our then-subsidiary, Micro Therapeutics, Inc., or MTI, Dendron became involved in litigation in Europe involving patents covering certain of our products, which litigation is still active. Concurrent with MTI’s acquisition of Dendron, MTI initiated a series of legal actions related to our Sapphire coils in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom with the primary purpose of asserting both invalidity and non-infringement by it of certain patents held by others with respect to detachable coils and certain delivery systems. In addition, the patent holders against whom MTI initiated the actions in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom have initiated legal actions against MTI in the United States that allege infringement by MTI of certain patents held by them. Subsequently, we filed counterclaims asserting non-infringement by us, invalidity of the patents, inequitable conduct in the procurement of certain patents and violation of federal antitrust laws. A trial date has been set for June 2007. Because these matters are not yet concluded and because of the complexity of the cases, we cannot estimate the possible loss or range of loss, if any, associated with their resolution. However, there can be no assurance that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If our products were found to infringe on any proprietary rights of a third party, we could be required to pay significant damages or license fees to the third party or cease production, marketing and distribution of those products, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Litigation may also be necessary to enforce patent rights we hold or to protect trade secrets or techniques we own. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. Such litigation is costly and may adversely affect our results of operations. We may also be subject to disputes with other companies as to the ownership of patents that we may develop. Such disputes could result in the enjoining of sales of our products or us being required to pay commercially unreasonable licensing fees. If this occurs, our net sales or the cost of selling the infringing product, and therefore our results of operations, would be negatively affected. Our business strategy relies on assumptions about the market for our products, which, if incorrect, would adversely affect our business prospects and profitability. We are focused on the market for endovascular devices used to treat vascular diseases and disorders. We believe that the aging of the general population and increasingly inactive lifestyles will continue and 27 that these trends will increase the need for our products. However, the projected demand for our products could materially differ from actual demand if our assumptions regarding these trends and acceptance of our products by the medical community prove to be incorrect or do not materialize or if drug therapies gain more widespread acceptance as a viable alternative treatment, which in each case would adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. If our patents and other intellectual property rights do not adequately protect our products, we may lose market share to our competitors, which would harm our business. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright and trademark laws and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual arrangements to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. In addition, we cannot be assured that any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent to us. The United States Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, may deny or require significant narrowing of claims in our pending patent applications, and patents issued as a result of the pending patent applications, if any, may not provide us with significant commercial protection or be issued in a form that is advantageous to us. We could also incur substantial costs in proceedings before the PTO. These proceedings could result in adverse decisions as to the priority of our inventions and the narrowing or invalidation of claims in issued patents. Our issued patents and those that may be issued in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products. Although we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, there is no assurance that third parties will not be able to design around our patents. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. We cannot assure you that we can meaningfully protect all our rights in our unpatented proprietary technology or that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary products or processes or otherwise gain access to our unpatented proprietary technology. We seek to protect our know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology, in part with confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, independent distributors and consultants. However, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements or in the event that our competitors discover or independently develop similar or identical designs or other proprietary information. In addition, we rely on the use of registered trademarks with respect to the brand names of some of our products. We also rely on common law trademark protection for some brand names, which are not protected to the same extent as our rights in the use of our registered trademarks. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. For example, foreign countries generally do not allow patents to cover methods for performing surgical procedures. If we cannot adequately protect our intellectual property rights in these foreign countries, our competitors may be able to compete more directly with us, which could adversely affect our competitive position and business. We also hold licenses from third parties that are necessary to use certain technologies used in the design and manufacturing of some of our products. The loss of such licenses would prevent us from manufacturing, marketing and selling these products, which could harm our business. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may be available only on unfavorable terms. In addition, any equity financings may be dilutive to our stockholders. Our capital requirements depend on many factors, including the amount and timing of our continued losses and our ability to reach profitability, our expenditures on intellectual property and technologies, the number of clinical trials which we conduct, new product development and new product acquisition. To the 28 extent that our existing capital, including amounts available under our revolving line of credit, is insufficient to cover any losses and meet these requirements, we will need to raise additional funds through financings or borrowings or curtail our growth and reduce our assets. From time to time, we may also sell a given technology or intellectual property having a development timeline or development cost that is inconsistent with our investment horizon or which does not adequately complement our existing product portfolio. We have historically relied on financing from Warburg Pincus and other investors, but there can be no assurance that Warburg Pincus or other investors will provide such financing in the future. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. Equity financings could result in dilution to our stockholders, and the securities issued in future financings as well as in any future acquisitions may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common stock. If our need for capital arises because of continued losses, the occurrence of these losses may make it more difficult for us to raise the necessary capital. We manufacture our products at single locations. Any disruption in these manufacturing facilities, any patent infringement claims with respect to our manufacturing process or otherwise any inability to manufacture a sufficient number of our products to meet demand could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We rely on our manufacturing facilities in Plymouth, Minnesota and in Irvine, California. The Plymouth and Irvine facilities and the manufacturing equipment we use to produce our products if damaged or destroyed would be difficult to replace and could require substantial lead-time to repair or replace. Our facilities may be affected by natural or man-made disasters. In the event one of our two facilities was affected by a disaster, we would be forced to rely on third-party manufacturers if we could not shift production to our other manufacturing facility. In the case of a device with a pre-market approval application we might in such event be required to obtain prior U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, or notified body approval of an alternate manufacturing facility, which could delay or prevent our marketing of the affected product until such approval is obtained. Although we believe we possess adequate insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business from casualties, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. It is also possible that one of our competitors could claim that our manufacturing process violates an existing patent. If we were unsuccessful in defending such a claim, we might be forced to stop production at one or both of our manufacturing facilities in the United States and to seek alternative facilities. Even if we were able to identify such alternative facilities, we might incur additional costs and experience a disruption in the supply of our products until those facilities are available. Any disruption in our manufacturing capacity could have an adverse impact on our ability to produce sufficient inventory of our products or may require us to incur additional expenses in order to produce sufficient inventory, and therefore would adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. Any disruption or delay at our manufacturing facilities, any inability to accurately predict the number of products to manufacture or to expand our manufacturing capabilities if necessary could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and these customers may cancel orders or purchase products from our competitors, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we lose the services of our chief executive officer or other key personnel, we may not be able to manage our operations and meet our strategic objectives. Our future success depends, in large part, on the continued service of James M. Corbett, our president and chief executive officer. Mr. Corbett’s continuation with us is integral to our future success, based on his significant expertise and knowledge of our business and products. Although we have key person insurance with respect to Mr. Corbett, any loss or interruption of the services of Mr. Corbett could significantly reduce our ability to effectively manage our operations and implement our strategy. Also, we depend on the continued service of key managerial, scientific, sales and technical personnel, as well as our ability to continue to attract and retain additional highly qualified personnel, especially experienced medical device 29 sales personnel. We compete for such personnel with other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. Any loss or interruption of the services of our other key personnel or any employee slowdowns, strikes or similar actions could also significantly reduce our ability to effectively manage our operations and meet our strategic objectives because we cannot assure you that we would be able to find appropriate replacement personnel should the need arise. Our dependence on key suppliers puts us at risk of interruptions in the availability of our products, which could reduce our net sales and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, increases in prices for raw materials and components used in our products could adversely affect our results of operations. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for the raw materials and components used in our products. For reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness or availability, we procure certain raw materials and components only from a sole supplier. Our raw materials and components are generally acquired through purchase orders placed in the ordinary course of business, and we do not have any guaranteed or contractual supply arrangements with many of our key or single source suppliers. In addition, we also rely on independent contract manufacturers for some of our products. Independent manufacturers have possession of, and in some cases hold title to, molds for certain manufactured components of our products. Our dependence on third-party suppliers involves several risks, including limited control over pricing, availability, quality and delivery schedules, as well as manufacturing yields and costs. Suppliers of raw materials and components may decide, or be required, for reasons beyond our control to cease supplying raw materials and components to us or to raise their prices. Shortages of raw materials, quality control problems, production capacity constraints or delays by our contract manufacturers could negatively affect our ability to meet our production obligations and result in increased prices for affected parts. Any such shortage, constraint or delay may result in delays in shipments of our products or components, which could adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. Increases in prices for raw materials and components used in our products could also adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the FDA and foreign regulators may require additional testing of any raw materials or components from new suppliers prior to our use of these materials or components. In the case of a device with a pre-market approval application, we may be required to obtain prior FDA approval of a new supplier, which could delay or prevent our access or use of such raw materials or components or our marketing of affected products until such approval is granted. In the case of a device with clearance under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, which we refer to as a 510(k), we may be required to submit a new 510(k) if a change in a raw material or component supplier results in a change in a material or component supplied that is not within the 510(k) cleared device specifications. If we need to establish additional or replacement suppliers for some of these components, our access to the components might be delayed while we qualify such suppliers and obtain any necessary FDA approvals. Our suppliers of finished goods are also subject to regulatory inspection and scrutiny. Any adverse regulatory finding or action against those suppliers could impact their ability to supply us goods for distribution and sale. Significant and unexpected claims under our EverFlex self-expanding stent worldwide fracture-free guarantee program in excess of our reserves could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Beginning in October 2006, we began providing a worldwide fracture-free guarantee as part of our marketing and advertising strategy for our EverFlex self-expanding stents. In the event that an EverFlex self-expanding stent should fracture within two years of implantation, we will provide a free replacement product to the medical facility, subject to the terms and conditions of the program. Although we have tested our EverFlex self-expanding stents in rigorous simulated fatigue testing, we commercially launched our EverFlex self-expanding stents on a worldwide basis in March 2006. We, therefore, do not have at least two years of commercial data on which to base our expected claim rates under the program. We may receive significant and unexpected claims under our guarantee program that could exceed the amount of our reserves for the program. Significant claims in excess of our progam reserves could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 30 Our inability to successfully grow through acquisitions, our failure to integrate any acquired businesses successfully into our existing operations or our discovery of previously undisclosed liabilities could negatively affect our business and results of operations. In order to build our core technology platform, we have acquired several businesses since our inception. Our most recent acquisition was in January 2006, when we completed our acquisition of the outstanding shares of Micro Therapeutics, Inc. that we did not already own. We expect to actively pursue additional acquisitions, investments in or alliances with, other companies and businesses in the future as a component of our business strategy. Our ability to grow through acquisitions, investments and alliances depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate attractive candidates on favorable terms and to obtain any necessary financing. Our inability to complete one or more acquisitions, investments or alliances could impair our ability to develop our product lines and to compete against many industry participants, many of whom have product lines broader than ours. Acquisitions, investments and alliances involve risks, including: · difficulties in integrating any acquired companies, personnel and products into our existing business; · delays in realizing projected efficiencies, cost savings, revenue synergies and other benefits of the acquired company or products; · inaccurate assessment of undisclosed, contingent or other liabilities or problems; · diversion of our management’s time and attention from other business concerns; · limited or no direct prior experience in new markets or countries we may enter; · higher costs of integration than we anticipated; or · difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired business who are necessary to manage these acquisitions. In addition, an acquisition, investment or alliance could materially impair our operating results and liquidity by causing us to incur debt or reallocate amounts of capital from other operating initiatives or requiring us to amortize transaction expenses and acquired assets, incur non-recurring charges as a result of incorrect estimates made in the accounting for such transactions or record asset impairment charges. We may also discover deficiencies in internal controls, data adequacy and integrity, product quality, regulatory compliance and product liabilities which we did not uncover prior to our acquisition of such businesses, which could result in us becoming subject to penalties or other liabilities. Any difficulties in the integration of acquired businesses or unexpected penalties or liabilities in connection with such businesses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. These risks could be heightened if we complete several acquisitions within a relatively short period of time. The demand for our products, the prices which customers and patients are willing to pay for our products and the number of procedures performed using our products depend upon the ability of our customers and patients to obtain sufficient third party reimbursement for their purchases of our products. Sales of our products depend in part on the sufficient reimbursement by governmental and private health care payors to our physician customers or their patients for the purchase and use of our products. In the United States, health care providers that purchase our products generally rely on third-party payors, principally federal Medicare, state Medicaid and private health insurance plans, to pay for all or a portion of the cost of endovascular procedures. Reimbursement systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and by region within some countries, and reimbursement approvals must be obtained on a country-by-country basis and can take up to 18 months or longer. Many international markets have government-managed health care systems that govern reimbursement for new devices and procedures. In 31 most markets, there are private insurance systems as well as government-managed systems. Additionally, some foreign reimbursement systems provide for limited payments in a given period and therefore result in extended payment periods. Any delays in obtaining, or an inability to obtain, reimbursement approvals or sufficient reimbursement for our products could significantly affect the acceptance of our products and have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, if the reimbursement policies of domestic or foreign governmental or private health care payors were to change, our customers would likely change their purchasing patterns and/or the frequency of their purchases of the affected products. Additionally, payors continue to review their coverage policies carefully for existing and new therapies and can, without notice, deny coverage for treatments that include the use of our products. Our business would be negatively impacted to the extent any such changes reduce reimbursement for our products. Healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. There have been and may continue to be proposals by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to keep these costs down. The continuing efforts of governments, insurance companies and other payors of healthcare costs to contain or reduce these costs, combined with closer scrutiny of such costs, could lead to patients being unable to obtain approval for payment from these third-party payors. The cost containment measures that healthcare providers are instituting both in the United States and internationally could harm our business. Some health care providers in the United States have adopted or are considering a managed care system in which the providers contract to provide comprehensive health care for a fixed cost per person. Health care providers may attempt to control costs by authorizing fewer elective surgical procedures or by requiring the use of the least expensive devices possible, which could adversely affect the demand for our products or the price at which we can sell our products. We also sell a number of our products to physician customers who may elect to use these products in ways that are not within the scope of the approval or clearance given by the FDA, often referred to as “off-label” use. In the event that governmental or private health care payors limit reimbursement for products used off-label, sales of our products and our business would be materially adversely affected. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could lead to demands for price concessions or to the exclusion of some suppliers from certain of our markets, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Because healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade, numerous initiatives and reforms initiated by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to curb these costs have resulted in a consolidation trend in the healthcare industry to create new companies with greater market power, including hospitals. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide products and services to industry participants has become and will continue to become more intense. This in turn has resulted and will likely continue to result in greater pricing pressures and the exclusion of certain suppliers from important market segments as group purchasing organizations, independent delivery networks and large single accounts continue to use their market power to consolidate purchasing decisions for some of our hospital customers. We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, resulting in further business consolidations and alliances among our customers, which may reduce competition, exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products and may adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our products and product development and marketing activities are subject to extensive regulation with which we may not be able to obtain required regulatory approvals for our products in a cost-effective manner or at all, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The production and marketing of our products and our ongoing research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trial activities are subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental 32 authorities both in the United States and abroad. U.S. and foreign regulations applicable to medical devices are wide-ranging and govern, among other things, the development, testing, marketing and pre-market review of new medical devices, in addition to regulating manufacturing practices, reporting, advertising, exporting, labeling and record keeping procedures. We are required to obtain FDA approval or clearance before we can market our products in the United States and certain foreign countries. The regulatory process requires significant time, effort and expenditures to bring our products to market, and we cannot assure that any of our products will be approved for sale. Even if regulatory approval or clearance of a product is granted, it may not be granted within the timeframe that we expect, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, even if regulatory approval or clearance of a product is granted, the approval or clearance could limit the uses for which the product may be labeled and promoted, which may limit the market for our products. Even after a product is approved or cleared by the FDA, we have ongoing responsibilities under FDA regulations, non-compliance of which could result in the subsequent withdrawal of such approvals or clearances, or such approvals or clearances could be withdrawn due to the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial approval. Any failure to obtain regulatory approvals or clearances on a timely basis or the subsequent withdrawal of such approvals or clearances could prevent us from successfully marketing our products, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in governmental agencies: · imposing fines and penalties on us; · preventing us from manufacturing or selling our products; · bringing civil or criminal charges against us; · delaying the introduction of our new products into the market; · suspending any ongoing clinical trials; · issuing and injunction preventing us from manufacturing or selling our products or imposing restrictions; · recalling or seizing our products; or · withdrawing or denying approvals or clearances for our products. If any or all of the foregoing were to occur, we may not be able to meet the demands of our customers and our customers may cancel orders or purchase products from our competitors, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. When required, with respect to the products we market in the United States, we have obtained pre-market notification clearance under Section 510(k), but we do not believe certain modifications we have made to our products require us to submit new 510(k) notifications. However, if the FDA disagrees with us and requires us to submit a new 510(k) notification for modifications to our existing products, we may be subject to enforcement actions by the FDA and be required to stop marketing the products while the FDA reviews the 510(k) notification. If the FDA requires us to go through a lengthier, more rigorous examination than we had expected, our product introductions or modifications could be delayed or canceled, which could cause our sales to decline. In addition, the FDA may determine that future products will require the more costly, lengthy and uncertain pre-market approval application process. Products that are approved through a pre-market approval application generally need FDA approval before they can be modified. If we fail to submit changes to products developed under investigational device exemptions or pre-market approval applications in a timely or adequate manner, we may become subject to regulatory actions. 33 Because we are subject to extensive regulation in the countries in which we operate, we are subject to the risk that regulations could change in a way that would expose us to additional costs, penalties or liabilities. For example, in the United States we sell a number of our products to physicians who may elect to use these products in ways that are not within the scope of the approval or clearance given by the FDA or for other than FDA-approved indications, often referred to as “off-label” use. There are laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of products for such off-label use which restrict our ability to market our products and could adversely affect our growth. Although we have strict policies against the unlawful promotion of products for off-label use and we train our employees on these policies, it is possible that one or more of our employees will not follow the policies, or that regulations would change in a way that may hinder our ability to sell such products or make it more costly to do so, which could expose us to financial penalties as well as loss of approval to market and sell the affected products. If we want to market any of our products for use in ways for which they are not currently approved, we may need to conduct clinical trials and obtain approval from appropriate regulatory bodies, which could be time-consuming and costly. In addition, off-label use may not be safe or effective and may result in unfavorable outcomes to patients, resulting in potential liability to us. Penalties or liabilities stemming from off-label use could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, if physicians cease or lessen their use of products for other than FDA-approved indications, sales of our products could decline, which could materially adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. In addition, we currently market our products in select countries outside of the U.S. In order to market our products abroad, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous requirements. If additional regulatory requirements are implemented in the foreign countries in which we sell our products, the cost of developing or selling our products may increase. For example, recent regulations in Japan have increased the regulatory and quality assurance requirements in order to obtain and maintain regulatory approval to market our products in Japan. These new regulations have resulted in higher costs and delays in securing approval to market our products in Japan. In addition, we depend on our distributors outside the United States in seeking regulatory approval to market our devices in other countries and we are therefore dependent on persons outside of our direct control to secure such approvals. For example, we are highly dependent on distributors in emerging markets such as China and Brazil for regulatory submissions and approvals and do not have direct access to health care agencies in those markets to ensure timely regulatory approvals or prompt resolution of regulatory or compliance matters. If our distributors fail to obtain the required approvals or do not do so in a timely manner, our net sales from our international operations and our results of operations may be adversely affected. If we or others identify side effects after any of our products are on the market, we may be required to withdraw our products from the market, which would hinder or preclude our ability to generate revenues. As part of our post-market regulatory responsibilities for our products classified as medical devices, we are required to report all serious injuries or deaths involving our products, and any malfunctions where a serious injury or death would be likely if the malfunction were to recur. If we or others identify side effects after any of our products are on the market: · regulatory authorities may withdraw their approvals; · we may be required to reformulate our products; · we may have to recall the affected products from the market and may not be able to reintroduce them onto the market; · our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; and · we may become the target of lawsuits, including class action suits. 34 Any of these events could harm or prevent sales of the affected products or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing or marketing these products. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to extensive governmental regulation with which compliance is costly and which exposes us to penalties for non-compliance. We and our third party manufacturers are required to register with the FDA as device manufacturers and as a result, we and our third party manufacturers are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. In addition, the federal Medical Device Reporting regulations require us and our third party manufacturers to provide information to the FDA whenever there is evidence that reasonably suggests that a device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or, if a malfunction were to occur, could cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic inspections by the FDA. In the European Community, we are required to maintain certain International Organization for Standardization (ISO) certifications in order to sell products and we undergo periodic inspections by notified bodies to obtain and maintain these certifications. If we or our manufacturers fail to adhere to QSR or ISO requirements, this could delay production of our products and lead to fines, difficulties and delays in obtaining regulatory approvals and clearances, the withdrawal of regulatory approvals and clearances, recalls or other consequences, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, regulatory agencies may not agree with the extent or speed of corrective actions relating to product or manufacturing problems. Our operations are subject to environmental, health and safety, and other laws and regulations, with which compliance is costly and which exposes us to penalties for non-compliance. Our business, properties and products are subject to foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, natural resources and worker health and safety and the use, management, storage, and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes, and other regulated materials. Because we operate real property, various environmental laws also may impose liability on us for the costs of cleaning up and responding to hazardous substances that may have been released on our property, including releases unknown to us. These environmental laws and regulations also could require us to pay for environmental remediation and response costs at third-party locations where we disposed of or recycled hazardous substances. The costs of complying with these various environmental requirements, as they now exist or may be altered in the future, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A number of our products are in clinical trials. If these trials are unsuccessful, or if the FDA or other regulatory agencies do not accept the results of such trials, these products may not successfully come to market and our business prospects may suffer. Several of our products are in the early stages of development. Some of our products only recently emerged from clinical trials and others have not yet reached the clinical trial stage. Our current trials include the CREATE Carotid Pivotal Trial (U.S.) and DURABILITY (Europe) Trial. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in reaching the endpoints in these trials or, if we do, that the FDA or other regulatory agencies will accept the results and approve the devices for sale. Further, we continually evaluate the potential financial benefits and costs of our clinical trials and the products being evaluated in them. If we determine that the costs associated with attaining regulatory approval of a product exceed the potential financial benefits of that product or if the projected development timeline is inconsistent with our investment horizon, we may choose to stop a clinical trial and/or the development of a product. 35 Our ability to market our products in the United States will depend upon a number of factors, including our ability to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products with valid clinical data. Our ability to market our products outside of the United States is also subject to regulatory approval, including our ability to demonstrate the safety of our products in the clinical setting. Our products may not be found to be safe and, where required, effective in clinical trials and may not ultimately be approved for marketing by U.S. or foreign regulatory authorities. Our failure to develop safe and effective products that are approved for sale on a timely basis would have a negative impact on our net sales. In particular, if we do not reach the endpoints or obtain FDA approval with respect to our products, our future growth may be significantly hampered. In addition, some of the products for which we are currently conducting trials are already approved for sale outside of the United States. As a result, while our trials are ongoing, unfavorable data may arise in connection with usage of our products outside the United States which could adversely impact the approval of such products in the United States. Conversely, unfavorable data from clinical trials in the United States may adversely impact sales of our products outside of the United States. We are currently conducting clinical studies of some of our products under an investigational device exemption. Clinical studies must be conducted in compliance with regulations of the FDA and those of regulatory agencies in other countries in which we conduct clinical studies. The data collected from these clinical investigations will ultimately be used to support market clearance for these products. There is no assurance that regulatory bodies will accept the data from these clinical studies or that they will ultimately allow market clearance for these products. The risks inherent in operating internationally and the risks of selling and shipping our products and of purchasing our components and products internationally may adversely impact our net sales, results of operations and financial condition. We derive a significant portion of our net sales from operations in international markets. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, 40.1% and 46.3% of our net sales, respectively, were derived from our international operations. Our international distribution system consisted of eight direct sales offices and approximately 45 stocking distribution partners as of December 31, 2006. In addition, we purchase some components and products from international suppliers. The sale and shipping of our products and services across international borders, as well as the purchase of components and products from international sources, subject us to extensive U.S. and foreign governmental trade regulations. Compliance with such regulations is costly and exposes us to penalties for non-compliance. In 2005, we reviewed our trade control practices as part of our ongoing commitment to further enhance our compliance policies and procedures. As part of this review, we identified instances in which we may have incorrectly reported information about certain shipments imported into the United States and Europe. We have disclosed these potential reporting errors to customs regulators in the countries of importation in the United States and Europe, and while we believe that no monies are owed to any government as a result of these potential reporting errors other than processing fees of an immaterial amount or value added taxes otherwise due, we may incur penalties, additional fees, value added taxes, interest and duty payments if the customs regulators disagree with our assessment. Other laws and regulations that can significantly impact us include various anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, laws restricting business with suspected terrorists, and anti-boycott laws. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could impact us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments, restrictions on certain business activities, and exclusion or debarment from government contracting. Also, the failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could result in the disruption of our shipping and sales activities. 36 In addition, many of the countries in which we sell our products are, to some degree, subject to political, economic and/or social instability. Our international sales operations expose us and our representatives, agents and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include: · the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations; · the imposition of costly and lengthy new export licensing requirements; · the imposition of U.S. and/or international sanctions against a country, company, person or entity with whom the company does business that would restrict or prohibit continued business with the sanctioned country, company, person or entity; · economic instability; · a shortage of high-quality sales people and distributors; · loss of any key personnel that possess proprietary knowledge, or who are otherwise important to our success in certain international markets; · changes in third-party reimbursement policies that may require some of the patients who receive our products to directly absorb medical costs or that may necessitate the reduction of the selling prices of our products; · changes in duties and tariffs, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade; · the imposition of new trade restrictions; · the imposition of restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives and distributors; · scrutiny of foreign tax authorities which could result in significant fines, penalties and additional taxes being imposed on us; · pricing pressure that we may experience internationally; · laws and business practices favoring local companies; · longer payment cycles; · difficulties in maintaining consistency with our internal guidelines; · difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; · difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights; and · exposure to different legal and political standards due to our conducting business in over 50 countries. We cannot assure you that one or more of the factors will not harm our business. Any material decrease in our international sales would adversely impact our net sales, results of operations and financial condition. Our international sales are predominately in Europe. In Europe, health care regulation and reimbursement for medical devices vary significantly from country to country. This changing environment could adversely affect our ability to sell our products in some European countries. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in our reported net sales and earnings. Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies could adversely affect our financial results. Approximately 29% and 34% of our net sales during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies. We expect that foreign 37 currencies will continue to represent a similarly significant percentage of our net sales in the future. Approximately 71% and 68% of our net sales denominated in foreign currencies during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, were derived from European Union countries and were denominated in the Euro. Additionally, we have significant intercompany receivables from our foreign subsidiaries, which are denominated in foreign currencies, principally the Euro and the Yen. Our principal exchange rate risks therefore exist between the U.S. dollar and the Euro and between the U.S. dollar and the Yen. Our international net sales were favorably affected by the impact of foreign currency fluctuations totaling $443 thousand during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 and unfavorably affected by $203 thousand during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. We cannot assure you that we will benefit from the impact of foreign currency fluctuations in the future and foreign currency fluctuations in the future may adversely affect our net sales and earnings. At present, we do not engage in hedging transactions to protect against uncertainty in future exchange rates between particular foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar. If we engage in hedging activities in the future, such activities involve risk and may not limit our underlying exposure from currency fluctuations or minimize our net sales and earnings volatility associated with foreign currency exchange rate changes. We may become obligated to make large milestone payments that are not currently reflected in our financial statements in certain circumstances, which would negatively impact our cash flows from operations. Pursuant to the acquisition agreements relating to our purchase of MitraLife and Appriva Medical, Inc. in 2002, we agreed to make additional payments to the sellers of these businesses in the event that we achieve contractually defined milestones. Generally, in each case, these milestone payments become due upon the completion of specific regulatory steps in the product commercialization process. With respect to the MitraLife acquisition, the maximum potential milestone payments totaled $25 million, and with respect to the Appriva acquisition, the maximum potential milestone payments totaled $175 million. Although we do not believe that it is likely that these milestone payment obligations became due, or will become due in the future, the former stockholders of Appriva disagree with our position and have brought litigation against us making a claim for such payments and it is possible that the former stockholders of MitraLife could also disagree with our position and make a claim for such payments. The defense of the outstanding litigation related to our Appriva acquisition is, and any such additional dispute with MitraLife would likely be, costly and time-consuming. In the event any such milestone payments become due and/or any other damages become payable, our costs would increase correspondingly which would negatively impact our cash flow from operations, as well as divert our management’s time and attention away from our business. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. We rely on our independent sales distributors and sales associates to market and sell our products outside of the United States, Canada and Europe. Sales of our products in locations outside of the United States, Canada and Europe represented 10% of our net sales during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 and 13% of our net sales during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. Our success outside of the United States, Canada and Europe depends largely upon marketing arrangements with independent sales distributors and sales associates, in particular their sales and service expertise and relationships with the customers in the marketplace. Independent distributors and sales associates may terminate their relationship with us, or devote insufficient sales efforts to our products. We do not control our independent distributors and they may not be successful in implementing our marketing plans. In addition, many of our independent distributors outside of the United States, Canada and Europe initially obtain and maintain foreign regulatory approval for sale of our products in their respective countries. Our failure to maintain our existing relationships with our independent distributors and sales associates outside of the United States, Canada and Europe, or our failure to recruit and retain additional skilled independent sales distributors and sales associates in these 38 locations, could have an adverse effect on our operations. We have experienced turnover with some of our independent distributors in the past that has adversely affected our short-term financial results while we transitioned to new independent distributors. Similar occurrences could happen in the future. Beginning October 1, 2006, we established a distribution arrangement with Medtronic International Trading Inc.—Japan Branch, a subsidiary of Medtronic, Inc., pursuant to which Medtronic distributes all of our products in Japan. As a result of this new arrangement, we ceased our direct sales operations in Japan. Our transition from direct operations to a distributor relationship in Japan could adversely affect our sales in Japan. If physicians do not recommend and endorse our products or if our working relationships with physicians deteriorate, our products may not be accepted in the market place, which would adversely affect our sales. In order for us to sell our products, physicians must recommend and endorse them. We may not obtain the necessary recommendations or endorsements from physicians. Acceptance of our products depends on educating the medical community as to the distinctive characteristics, perceived benefits, safety, clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of our products compared to products of our competitors, and on training physicians in the proper application of our products. If we are not successful in obtaining the recommendations or endorsements of physicians for our products, our sales may decline or we may be unable to increase our sales. In addition, if we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians, many of our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of professionals who use and support our products. The research, development, marketing and sales of many of our new and improved products is dependent upon our maintaining working relationships with physicians. We rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding our products and the marketing of our products. Physicians assist us as researchers, marketing consultants, product consultants, inventors and as public speakers. If we are unable to maintain our strong relationships with these professionals and continue to receive their advice and input, the development and marketing of our products could suffer, which could adversely affect the acceptance of our products in the market place and our sales. If we fail to comply with the U.S. Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws, we could be subject to criminal and civil penalties and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid and other federal health care programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. A provision of the Social Security Act, commonly referred to as the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for referring, ordering, leasing, purchasing or arranging for or recommending the ordering, purchasing or leasing of items or services payable by Medicare, Medicaid or any other federal health care program. The Federal Anti-Kickback Statute is very broad in scope and many of its provisions have not been uniformly or definitively interpreted by existing case law or regulations, and thus are subject to evolving interpretations. In addition, most of the states in which our products are sold have adopted laws similar to the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, and some of these laws are even broader than the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute in that their prohibitions are not limited to items or services paid for by a federal health care program but, instead, apply regardless of the source of payment. Violations of the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties and exclusion from participation in federal health care programs. All of our financial relationships with health care providers and others who provide products or services to federal health care program beneficiaries are potentially governed by the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws. We believe our operations are in material compliance with the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws. However, we cannot assure you that we will not be 39 subject to investigations or litigation alleging violations of these laws, which could be time-consuming and costly to us and could divert management’s attention from operating our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, if our arrangements were found to violate the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute or similar state laws, we or our officers and employees could be subject to severe criminal and civil penalties, including, for example, exclusion from participation in any federal health care programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations. If there is a disruption in the supply of the products of Invatec Technology Center GmbH that we distribute or if our relationship with Invatec is impaired, our net sales and results of operations would be adversely impacted. We have entered into an agreement with Invatec Technology Center GmbH., or Invatec, an Italian manufacturer of endovascular medical devices which prior to our arrangement have not been marketed or sold under the Invatec brand in the United States, to distribute some of Invatec’s branded products throughout the United States. Our success in marketing the Invatec products depends on our sales personnel being proficient in the product line, building physician relationships and executing sales orders. If we are unable to market Invatec’s products successfully or if our agreement with Invatec is terminated, our net sales and results of operations would suffer. Even if we market Invatec’s products successfully, if Invatec is unable to produce enough of its products to meet our demands, including if Invatec sells its inventory to our competitors rather than to us for marketing under their own brands, we may not be able to meet our customers’ demands and our net sales and results of operations may suffer. Our family of self-expanding stent products generates a large portion of our net sales. Our net sales and business prospects would be adversely affected if sales of this product were to decline. We are dependent on our self-expanding stents, which generated approximately 25% of our net sales in fiscal 2006 and approximately 20% of our net sales in fiscal 2005. If our self-expanding stents were to no longer be available for sale in any key market because of regulatory, intellectual property or any other reason, our net sales from these products and from products that typically constitute ancillary purchases would significantly decline. A significant decline in our net sales could also negatively impact our product development activities and therefore our business prospects. We are exposed to product liability claims that could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The design, manufacture and sale of medical devices expose us to significant risk of product liability claims, some of which may have a negative impact on our business. Most of our products were developed relatively recently and defects or risks that we have not yet identified may give rise to product liability claims. Our existing product liability insurance coverage may be inadequate to protect us from any liabilities we may incur or we may not be able to maintain adequate product liability insurance at acceptable rates. If a product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of our insurance coverage and it is ultimately determined that we are liable, our business could suffer. Additionally, we could experience a material design defect or manufacturing failure in our products, a quality system failure, other safety issues or heightened regulatory scrutiny that would warrant a recall of some of our products. A recall of some of our products could also result in increased product liability claims. Further, while we train our physician customers on the proper usage of our products, we cannot ensure that they will implement our instructions accurately. If our products are used incorrectly by our customers, injury may result and this could give rise to product liability claims against us. Even a meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim could harm our reputation in the industry, lead to significant legal fees and could result in the diversion of management’s attention from managing our business and may have a negative impact on our business and our results of operations. In addition, successful product liability claims against one of our competitors could cause claims to be made against us. 40 Our net sales could decline significantly if drug-eluting stents become a dominant therapy in the peripheral vascular stent market and we are not able to develop or acquire a drug-eluting stent to market and sell. The peripheral vascular market is currently comprised exclusively of bare metal, or non drug-eluting, stents. However, there are clinical situations in the periphery in which a drug-eluting stent may demonstrate clinical superiority over bare metal stents. To the extent that our peripheral stent customers seek stents with drug coatings and we do not market and sell a drug-eluting peripheral stent or one that achieves market acceptance, we may not be able to compete as effectively with those of our competitors that are able to develop and sell a drug-eluting stent, and our peripheral stent sales could decline. If our peripheral stent sales were to decline, we could experience a significant decline in sales of some of our other products which are routinely purchased in conjunction with stent purchases. If we are unable to continue to develop and market new products and technologies that are accepted by the marketplace, we may experience a decrease in demand for our products or our products could become obsolete, and our business would suffer. We are continually engaged in product development and improvement programs, and the introduction of new products represents a significant component of our growth strategy. We may not be able to compete effectively with our competitors unless we can keep up with existing or new products and technologies in the endovascular device market. If we do not continue to introduce new products and technologies, or if our new products and technologies are not accepted by the physicians who use our products or the payors who reimburse the costs of the procedures performed with our products, we may not be successful and our business would suffer. Moreover, many of our clinical trials have durations of several years and it is possible that competing therapies, such as drug therapies, may be introduced while our products are still undergoing clinical trials. This could reduce the potential demand for our products and negatively impact our business prospects. Additionally, our competitors’ new products and technologies may beat our products to market, may be more effective or less expensive than our products or render our products obsolete. The marketing of our products requires a significant amount of time and expense and we may not have the resources to successfully market our products, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. The marketing of our products requires a significant amount of time and expense in order to identify the physicians who may use our products, invest in training and education, and employ a sales force that is large enough to interact with the targeted physicians. In addition, the marketing of our products requires interaction with many subspecialists who are moving into new practice areas and may require more training and education from our personnel than would be required with physicians who are not expanding their practice areas. We may not have adequate resources to market our products successfully against larger competitors which have more resources than we do. If we cannot market our products successfully, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. 41 We face competition from other companies, many of which have substantially greater resources than we do and may be able to more effectively develop, market and sell their products than we can, which could adversely impact our business, net sales and results of operations. Consolidation in the medical technology industry would exacerbate these risks. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive, subject to change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other activities of industry participants. Although our competitors range from small start-up companies to much larger companies, the markets for most of our products are dominated by a small number of large companies, and we are a much smaller company relative to our primary competitors. Our products compete with other medical devices, including Invatec manufactured products sold in the United States under other brand names, surgical procedures and pharmaceutical products. A number of the companies in the medical technology industry, including manufacturers of peripheral vascular, cardiovascular and neurovascular products, have substantially greater capital resources, larger customer bases, broader product lines, larger sales forces, greater marketing and management resources, larger research and development staffs and larger facilities than ours and have established reputations and relationships with our target customers, as well as worldwide distribution channels that are more effective than ours. Because of the size of the vascular disease market opportunity, competitors and potential competitors have historically dedicated and will continue to dedicate significant resources to aggressively promote their products and develop new and improved products. Our competitors and potential competitors may develop technologies and products that are safer, more effective, easier to use, less expensive or more readily accepted than ours. Their products could make our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. None of our customers has long-term purchase agreements with us and may at any time switch to the use of our competitors’ products. Our competitors may also be able to achieve more efficient manufacturing and distribution operations than we can and may offer lower prices than we could offer profitably. We expect that as our products mature, we will be able to produce our products in a more cost effective manner and therefore be able to compete more effectively, but it is possible that we may not achieve such cost reductions. Any of these competitive factors could adversely impact our business, net sales and results of operations. In addition, the industry has recently experienced some consolidation. Consolidation could make the competitive environment even more difficult for smaller companies and exacerbate these risks. We also compete with other manufacturers of medical devices for clinical sites to conduct human trials. If we are not able to locate clinical sites on a timely or cost-effective basis, this could impede our ability to conduct trials of our products and, therefore, our ability to obtain required regulatory clearance or approval. We rely on our management information systems for inventory management, distribution and other functions and to maintain our research and development and clinical data. If our information systems fail to adequately perform these functions or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our management information systems. We rely on our management information systems to effectively manage accounting and financial functions; manage order entry, order fulfillment and inventory replenishment processes; and to maintain our research and development and clinical data. The failure of our management information systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and product development and could result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, excess inventory and product shortages, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. In addition, our management information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: · earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters; 42 · terrorist attacks and attacks by computer viruses or hackers; and · power loss or computer systems, Internet, telecommunications or data network failure. Any such interruption could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The restrictive covenants in our loan agreement could limit our ability to conduct our business and respond to changing economic and business conditions and may place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies that are subject to fewer restrictions. Our loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank requires our compliance with a liquidity ratio and minimum tangible net worth level. Our failure to comply with these financial covenants could adversely affect our financial condition. Our loan agreement also contains a number of limitations that limit our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to, among other things: · transfer all or any part of our business or properties; · permit or suffer a change in control; · merge or consolidate, or acquire all or substantially all of the capital stock or property of another company; · engage in new business; · incur additional indebtedness or liens with respect to any of their properties; · pay dividends or make any other distribution on or purchase of, any of their capital stock; · make investments in other companies; or · engage in related party transactions, subject in each case to certain exceptions and limitations. These restrictive covenants could limit our ability, and that of certain of our subsidiaries, to obtain future financing, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. The financial and restrictive covenants contained in the loan agreement could also adversely affect our ability to respond to changing economic and business conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies that may be subject to fewer restrictions. Transactions that we may view as important opportunities, such as certain acquisitions, may be subject to the consent of Silicon Valley Bank, which consent may be withheld or granted subject to conditions specified at the time that may affect the attractiveness or viability of the transaction. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all of these restrictions and covenants at all times, especially the financial covenants. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants depends on the success of our business and our operating results and may also be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of any of the restrictions and covenants in our loan agreement by us or certain of our subsidiaries could lead to an event of default under the terms of the credit agreement, notwithstanding our ability to meet our debt service obligations thereunder. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our loan agreement, Silicon Valley Bank has available a range of remedies customary in these circumstances, including declaring all such debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon, to be due and payable, foreclosing on the assets securing the loan agreement and/or ceasing to provide additional revolving loans or letters of credit, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Although it is possible we could negotiate a waiver with our lenders of an event of default, such a waiver would likely involve significant costs. 43 If we become profitable, we cannot assure you that our net operating losses will be available to reduce our tax liability. Our ability to use, or the amount of, our net operating losses may be limited or reduced. The businesses purchased by us in 2001 and 2002 experienced “ownership changes” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Generally, a change of more than 50 percentage points in the ownership of a company’s shares, by value, over the three-year period ending on the date the shares were acquired constitutes an ownership change, and these ownership changes limit our ability to use the acquired company’s net operating losses. Furthermore, the number of shares of our common stock issued in our June 2005 initial public offering and in our January 2006 transaction with MTI may be sufficient, taking into account prior or future shifts in our ownership over a three-year period, to cause us to undergo an ownership change. As a result, our ability to use our existing net operating losses that are not currently subject to limitation to offset U.S. federal taxable income if we become profitable may also become subject to substantial limitations. Further, the amount of our net operating losses could be reduced if any tax deductions taken by us are limited or disallowed by the Internal Revenue Service. All of these limitations could potentially result in increased future tax liability for us. A substantial portion of our assets consists of goodwill and an impairment in the value of our goodwill would have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses. As of December 31, 2006, goodwill represented $149.1 million, or 42.2%, of our total assets. If we are required to record an impairment charge to earnings relating to goodwill, it will have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses. The accounting standards on goodwill and other intangible assets require goodwill to be reviewed at least annually for impairment, and do not permit amortization. In the event that impairment is identified, a charge to earnings will be recorded and our stock price may decline as a result. Our quarterly operating and financial results may fluctuate in future periods. Our quarterly operating and financial results may fluctuate from period to period. Some of the factors that influence our quarterly operating results include: · the seasonality of our product sales; · the mix of our products sold; · demand for, and pricing of, our products; and · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Many of the products we may seek to develop and introduce in the future will require FDA approval or clearance and meet similar regulatory requirements in other countries where we seek to market our products, without which we cannot begin to commercialize them. Forecasting the timing of sales of our products is difficult due to the delay inherent in seeking FDA and other clearance or approval, or the failure to obtain such clearance or approval. Accordingly, we may experience significant, unanticipated quarterly losses. Because of these factors, our operating results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline significantly. 44 Risks Related to our Common Stock One of our principal stockholders and its affiliates are able to influence matters requiring stockholder approval and could discourage the purchase of our outstanding shares at a premium. As of March 1, 2007, Warburg Pincus beneficially owned approximately 64.3% of our outstanding common stock. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale or merger of our company and may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Transactions that could be affected by this concentration of ownership include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchases of common stock that could give our stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for shares of our common stock. As a result of Warburg Pincus’ share ownership and representation on our board of directors, Warburg Pincus is able to influence all affairs and actions of our company, including matters requiring stockholder approval, such as the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The interests of our principal stockholder may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. For example, Warburg Pincus could oppose a third party offer to acquire our company that our other stockholders might consider attractive, and the third party may not be able or willing to proceed unless Warburg Pincus supports the offer. In addition, if our board of directors supports a transaction requiring an amendment to our certificate of incorporation, Warburg Pincus is currently in a position to defeat any required stockholder approval of the proposed amendment. If our board of directors supports an acquisition of our company by means of a merger or a similar transaction, the vote of Warburg Pincus alone is currently sufficient to approve or block the transaction under Delaware law. In each of these cases and in similar situations, our other stockholders may disagree with Warburg Pincus as to whether the action opposed or supported by Warburg Pincus is in the best interest of our stockholders. Certain of our principal stockholders may have conflicts of interests with our other stockholders or our company in the future. Certain of our principal stockholders, including Warburg Pincus, may make investments in companies and from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. These other investments may: · create competing financial demands on our principal stockholders; · create potential conflicts of interest; and · require efforts consistent with applicable law to keep the other businesses separate from our operations. These principal stockholders may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Furthermore, these principal stockholders may have an interest in us pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to our stockholders. In addition, these principal stockholders’ rights to vote or dispose of equity interests in us are not subject to restrictions in favor of us other than as may be required by applicable law. We currently are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ Global Select Market listing requirements and, as a result, are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements. Because Warburg Pincus controls more than 50% of the voting power of our common stock, we are currently considered to be a “controlled company” for the purposes of the NASDAQ listing requirements. 45 As such, we are permitted, and have elected, to opt out of NASDAQ listing requirements that would otherwise require our board of directors to have a majority of independent directors, our board nominations to be selected, or recommended for the board’s selection either by a nominating committee comprised entirely of independent directors or by a majority of our independent directors and our compensation committee to be comprised entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. We previously identified a material weakness in the internal controls over our ability to produce financial statements free from material misstatements. Our failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition and cause our investors, shareholders, lenders, suppliers and others to lose confidence in the accuracy or completeness of our financial reports. As previously reported and discussed in Item 4, “Controls and Procedures,” in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 2, 2006, our management concluded that as of December 31, 2005 we did not maintain effective controls over the preparation, review and presentation and disclosure of our consolidated statements of cash flows. Specifically, we incorrectly reported an interest payment on demand notes payable as a financing cash out-flow instead of an operating cash out-flow, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. This control deficiency resulted in the restatement of our consolidated financial statements for the quarters ended July 3, 2005 and October 2, 2005. Management also determined that this control deficiency constituted a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. As a result of measures subsequently implemented by us, we concluded that this material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting had been fully remediated as of July 2, 2006. However, our failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition and cause our investors, shareholders, lenders, suppliers and others to lose confidence in the accuracy or completeness of our financial reports. Our corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving our company that our stockholders may consider favorable. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 100 million shares of “blank check” preferred stock. Without stockholder approval, the board of directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock. With these rights, preferred stockholders could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire our company. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered board of directors, whereby directors serve for three year terms, with approximately one third of the directors coming up for reelection each year. Having a staggered board makes it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our board of directors through a proxy contest, which may be a necessary step in an acquisition of our company that is not favored by our board of directors. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under these provisions, if anyone becomes an “interested stockholder,” we may not enter into a “business combination” with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. For purposes of Section 203, “interested stockholder” means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of our company that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in Section 203. Under one such exception, Warburg Pincus does not constitute an “interested stockholder.” 46 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 