ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business If we are unable to maintain our current customers on terms that are favorable to us, our business, financial condition and operating results may suffer a material adverse effect. We enter into contracts with our gaming establishment customers to provide our cash access products and related services. Our contracts typically have a term ranging from one to five years in duration, but some are terminable upon 30 days advance notice or are terminable by our gaming establishment customers in the event that we fail to satisfy specific covenants set forth in the contracts, including gaming regulatory compliance covenants. We are typically required to renegotiate the terms of our customer contracts upon their expiration, and in some circumstances we may be forced to modify the terms of our contracts before they expire. When we have successfully renewed these contracts, these negotiations have in the past resulted in, and in the future may result in, financial and other terms that are less favorable to us than the terms of the expired contracts. In particular, we are often required to pay a higher commission rate to a gaming establishment than we previously paid in order to renew the relationship. Assuming constant transaction volume, increases in commissions or other incentives paid to gaming establishments would reduce our operating results. We may not succeed in renewing these contracts when they expire, which would result in a complete loss of revenue from that customer, either for an extended period of time or forever. If we are required to pay higher commission rates or agree to other less favorable terms to retain our customers or we are not able to renew our relationships with our customers upon the expiration of our contracts, our business, financial condition and operating results would be harmed. Competition in the market for cash access services is intense, which could result in higher commissions or loss of customers to our competitors. The market for cash access products and related services is intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase and intensify in the future. We compete with other providers of cash access products and services such as Global Payment Systems (operating as Cash & Win). We compete with financial institutions such as U.S. Bancorp and other regional and local banks that operate ATMs on the premises of gaming establishments. In markets outside North America, we encounter competition from banks and other financial service companies established in those markets. We face competition from gaming establishments that choose to operate cash access systems on their own behalf rather than outsource to us. We may in the future also face competition from traditional transaction processors, such as First Data, that may choose to enter the gaming patron cash services market. Given its familiarity with our specific industry and business and operations as a result of being our majority owner from inception until March 10, 2004, First Data could be a significant competitive threat. In addition, we may in the future face potential competition from new entrants into the market for cash access products and related services, such as banks. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significant advantages over us, including greater name recognition, longer operating histories, pre-existing relationships with current or potential customers including pre-existing relationships relating to other financial services, significantly greater financial, marketing, technological and other resources and more ready access to capital which allow them to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities. Other providers of cash access products and services to gaming establishments have in the past increased, and may in the future continue to increase, the commissions or other incentives they pay to gaming establishments in order to win those gaming establishments as customers and to gain market share. To the extent that competitive pressures force us to increase commissions or other incentives to establish or maintain relationships with gaming establishments, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Because of significant concentration among our top customers, the loss of a top customer could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 34.2% and 40.3% of our revenues, respectively. Our largest customer accounted for 16.2% and 19.3% of our revenues in the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The loss of, or a substantial decrease in revenues from, any one of our top customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. As our contracts are often executed by one corporation for the provision of services at multiple gaming establishments, the loss of a single contract often results in the loss of multiple gaming establishments. Consolidation among operators of gaming establishments may also result in the loss of a top customer to the extent that customers of ours are acquired by our competitors’ customers. 15 Table of Contents Our indebtedness could materially adversely affect our operations and financial results and prevent us from obtaining additional financing, if necessary. As of December 31, 2008, we had total indebtedness of $265.8 million in principal amount (of which $152.8 million consisted of senior subordinated notes and $113.0 million consisted of senior secured debt). Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it: • makes it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to either our senior secured debt or our senior subordinated notes, which, if we fail to do, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt; • increases our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts and other general corporate purposes; • limits our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • restricts our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our common stock; • places us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • restricts our ability to acquire businesses or technologies that would benefit our business; • restricts our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates or create liens or guarantees; and • limits, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our other indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture for the Notes contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that we may believe to be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. Our senior secured debt currently bears interest at a rate that is based on LIBOR, and is adjusted periodically to reflect changes in LIBOR. We are therefore exposed to the risk of increased interest expense in the event of any increase in LIBOR. To service our indebtedness we will require a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate cash flow depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to generate cash flow from operations depends on general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Due to these factors, it is possible that our business will not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to pay our indebtedness as it matures and to fund our other liquidity needs. This would cause us to have to borrow money to meet these needs and future borrowing may not be available to us at all or in an amount sufficient to satisfy these needs. In such events, we will need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We could have to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expenses and capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity or debt financing or joint venture partners. We may not be able to affect any of these financing strategies on satisfactory terms, if at all. Our failure to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms would have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness. The terms of our senior secured debt may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which will reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts and other general corporate purposes. 16 Table of Contents We may encounter difficulties managing our growth, including growth through acquisitions or strategic investments, or the change of any of our providers, which could adversely affect our operating results. Growth, including growth through acquisitions or strategic investments, or the change of any of our service providers, involve various risks, such as: • difficulty integrating the technologies, operations and personnel from the acquired business or a new service provider; • overestimation of potential synergies or a delay in realizing those synergies; • disruption to our ongoing business, including the diversion of management’s attention and of resources from our principal business; • inability to obtain the desired financial and strategic benefits from the acquisition or investment; • reduced ability to control maintenance schedules, system availability, functionality or customer service levels of a new service provider; • loss of customers of an acquired business; • assumption of unanticipated liabilities; • loss of key employees of an acquired business; and • entering into new markets in which we have limited prior experience. Acquisitions and strategic investments could also result in substantial cash expenditures, the dilutive issuance of our equity securities, the incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities, and amortization expenses related to other intangible assets that could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Acquisitions and strategic investments may also be highly dependent upon the retention and performance of existing management and employees of acquired businesses for the day-to-day management and future operating results of these businesses. Our ability to consummate acquisitions may be impaired by a number of factors, including decreases in the trading price of our common stock, our inability to comply with covenants relating to our existing debt or our inability to incur additional debt that is required to consummate acquisitions or finance the post closing operation of acquired businesses. Changes in interchange rates and other fees may affect our cost of revenues (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) and net income. We pay credit card associations fees for services they provide in settling transactions routed through their networks, called interchange fees. In addition, we pay fees to participate in various ATM or POS debit card networks as well as processing fees to process our transactions. The amounts of these interchange fees are fixed by the card associations and networks in their sole discretion, and are subject to increase at any time. VISA and MasterCard both increased applicable interchange fees in April 2007. Also, in 2004, VISA’s Interlink network, through which we process a substantial portion of our POS debit card transactions, materially increased the interchange rates for those transactions. Since that date, the proportion of our POS debit card transactions that are routed on the Interlink network has increased, resulting in a decrease in profitability of our POS debit card business. Certain of our contracts enable us to pass through increases in interchange or processing fees to our customers, but competitive pressures might prevent us from passing all or some of these fees through to our customers in the future. To the extent that we are unable to pass through to our customers all or any portion of any increase in interchange or processing fees, our cost of revenues (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) would increase and our net income would decrease, assuming no change in transaction volumes. Any such decrease in net income could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Additionally, the transformation of the ownership structure of Visa and MasterCard from private associations of issuing banks to publicly traded corporations may negatively impact the manner in which these card associations manage and determine interchange rates. This could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We receive fees from the issuers of ATM cards that are used in our ATMs, which we call reverse interchange fees. The amounts of these reverse interchange fees are fixed by electronic funds transfer networks, and are subject to decrease in their discretion at any time. Our contracts with gaming operators do not enable us to pass through to our customers the amount of any decrease in reverse interchange fees. To the extent that reverse interchange fees are reduced, our net income would decrease, assuming no change in transaction volumes, which may result in a material adverse effect on our operating results. 17 Table of Contents A material increase in market interest rates or changing regulations could adversely affect our ATM business. Pursuant to our contract with Bank of America, we are obligated to pay a monthly fee that is based upon the amount of cash used to supply our ATMs and a market interest rate. Assuming no change in the amount of cash used to supply our ATMs, an increase in market interest rates will result in an increase in the monthly fee that we must pay to obtain this supply of cash, thereby increasing our ATM operating costs. Any increase in the amount of cash required to supply our ATMs would magnify the impact of an increase in market interest rates. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we incurred approximately $9.3 million and $15.9 million, respectively, in aggregate fees to Bank of America for this supply of cash. Our ATM services are subject to the applicable state banking regulations in each jurisdiction in which we operate ATMs. Our ATM services may also be subject to local regulations relating to the imposition of daily limits on the amounts that may be withdrawn from ATMs, the location of ATMs and our ability to surcharge cardholders who use our ATMs. These regulations may impose significant burdens on our ability to operate ATMs profitably in some locations, or at all. Moreover, because these regulations are subject to change, we may be forced to modify our ATM operations in a manner inconsistent with the assumptions upon which we relied when entering into contracts to provide ATM services at gaming establishments. An unexpectedly high level of chargebacks, as the result of fraud or otherwise, could adversely affect our cash advance business. When patrons use our cash access services, we either dispense cash or produce a negotiable instrument that can be exchanged for cash. If a completed cash access transaction is subsequently disputed and if we are unsuccessful in establishing the validity of the transaction, we may not be able to collect payment for such transaction and such transaction becomes a chargeback. In the event that we incur chargebacks in excess of specified levels, First Data will have the right to terminate its indemnification obligations to BAMS, and we could lose our no-cost sponsorship into the card associations. In addition, in the event that we incur chargebacks in excess of specified levels, we could be censured by the card associations by way of fines or otherwise. In certain foreign regions in which we currently operate or may operate in the future, new card security features, such as the chip-and-pin feature, have been developed as a fraud deterrent. We must upgrade our devices in certain international jurisdictions to accept these new technologies. Until we comply with these security features, we will bear the chargeback risk on transactions completed without the use of these new technologies or may not be able to operate in such jurisdiction at all. An unexpected increase in check warranty expenses could adversely affect our check warranty business. We currently rely on TeleCheck to provide check warranty services to many of our customers. When a gaming establishment obtains an authorization from TeleCheck pursuant to its check warranty service, TeleCheck warrants payment on the patron’s check. If the patron’s check is subsequently dishonored upon presentment for payment, TeleCheck purchases the dishonored check from the gaming establishment for its face amount. Pursuant to the terms of our contract with TeleCheck, we share a portion of the loss associated with these dishonored checks. Although this contract limits the loss percentage of the dishonored checks to which we are exposed, there is no limit on the aggregate dollar amount to which we are exposed, which is a function of the face amount of checks warranted. TeleCheck manages and mitigates these dishonored checks through the use of risk analytics and collection efforts, including the additional fees that it is entitled to collect from check writers of dishonored checks. During the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, our warranty expenses with respect to TeleCheck’s check warranty service were $5.8 million and $5.7 million, respectively. We have no control over TeleCheck’s decision to warrant payment on a particular check, and we have limited visibility into TeleCheck’s collection activities. As a result, we may incur an unexpectedly high level of check warranty expenses at any time. As an alternative to TeleCheck’s check warranty service, we have developed our own Central Credit check warranty service that is based upon our own proprietary information, data from third-party databases, and third-party risk analytics and actuarial assumptions. If these risk analytics or actuarial assumptions are ineffective, we may incur an unexpectedly high level of check warranty. 18 Table of Contents The loss of our sponsorship into the Visa U.S.A., Visa International and MasterCard card associations would have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot provide cash access services involving VISA cards and MasterCard cards in the United States without sponsorship into the Visa U.S.A. and MasterCard card associations. BAMS has agreed to sponsor us into the card associations at no cost to us through September 2010, subject to First Data’s continued indemnification of BAMS for any losses it may suffer as a result of such sponsorship. First Data will have the right to terminate its indemnification obligations prior to September 2010 in the event that we breach indemnification obligations that we owe to First Data, in the event that we incur chargebacks in excess of specified levels, in the event that we are fined in excess of specified amounts for violating card associations’ operating rules, or in the event that we amend the sponsorship agreement without First Data’s consent. In the event that First Data terminates its indemnification obligations and as a result we lose our sponsorship by BAMS into the card associations, we would need to obtain sponsorship into the card associations through another member of the card associations that is capable of supporting our transaction volume. We would not be able to obtain such alternate sponsorship on terms as favorable to us as the terms of our current sponsorship by BAMS, which is at no cost to us, or at all. We cannot provide cash access services involving VISA cards and MasterCard cards outside of the United States without a processing agreement with or sponsorship into the Visa International and MasterCard card associations by a bank in each foreign jurisdiction in which we conduct cash access transactions. We are currently a party to processing agreements or sponsored into these card associations by foreign banks in each of the foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct cash access transactions. In the event that any foreign bank that currently is a party to such processing agreement or sponsors us into these card associations terminates such processing agreement or its sponsorship of us, we would need to obtain a processing agreement or sponsorship into the card associations through another foreign bank that is capable of supporting our transaction volume in the relevant jurisdiction. We may not be able to obtain alternate sponsorship or processing arrangements in any region on terms as favorable to us as the terms of our current sponsorship by or processing arrangements with foreign banks, or at all. We are subject to extensive rules and regulations of card associations, including MasterCard International, Visa International and Visa U.S.A., that are always subject to change, which may harm our business. A substantial portion of our revenues during the period covered by this report were derived from transactions subject to the extensive rules and regulations of the leading card associations, Visa International and Visa U.S.A. (collectively “VISA”), and MasterCard International (“MasterCard”). The rules and regulations do not expressly address some of the contexts and settings in which we process cash access transactions, or do so in a manner subject to varying interpretations. As an example, we and certain of our providers must comply with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard. The failure by any of such providers to comply with such standards could result in our being finedbecoming exposed to the risk of ?. The card associations’ rules and regulations are always subject to change, and the card associations may modify their rules and regulations from time to time. Our inability to anticipate changes in rules, regulations or the interpretation or application thereof may result in substantial disruption to our business. In the event that the card associations or our sponsoring banks determine that the manner in which we process certain types of card transactions is not in compliance with existing rules and regulations, or if the card associations adopt new rules or regulations that prohibit or restrict the manner in which we process certain types of card transactions, we may be forced to pay a fine, modify the manner in which we operate our business or stop processing certain types of cash access transactions altogether, any of which could have a material negative impact on our business and operating results. We also process transactions involving the use of the proprietary credit cards such as those offered by Discover Card and American Express as well as other regional card issued in certain international markets. The rules and regulations of the proprietary credit card networks that service these cards present risks to us that are similar to those posed by the rules and regulations of VISA and MasterCard. 19 Table of Contents Our products and services are complex, depend on a myriad of complex networks and technologies and may be subject to software or hardware errors or failures that could lead to an increase in our costs, reduce our revenues or damage our reputation. Our products and services, and the networks and third-party services upon which our products and services are based, are complex and may contain undetected errors or may suffer unexpected failures. We are exposed to the risk of failure of our proprietary computer systems, many of which are deployed, operated, monitored and supported by Infonox, which we do not control. We rely on Infonox to detect and respond to errors and failures in our proprietary computer systems. We rely on NRT, Western Money Systems and Glory for software development and system support of the self-service slot ticket and player point redemption kiosks that incorporate our cash access services. We are exposed to the risk of failure of the computer systems that are owned, operated and managed by USA Payments Systems, which we do not control. USA Payment Systems owns the data centers through which most of our transactions are processed, and we rely on USA Payment Systems to maintain the security and integrity of our transaction data, including backups thereof. We are in the process of transitioning from USA Payment Systems to an alternate electronic payment processor and will be subject to the same risks with respect to our successor processor as we are with USA Payment Systems. We also are exposed to the risk of failure of card association and electronic funds transfer networks that are used to process and settle our transactions. These networks, which are owned and operated by others, are subject to planned and unplanned outages and may suffer degradations in performance during peak processing times. Finally, we are subject to the risk of disruption to, or failure of, the telecommunications infrastructure upon which the interfaces among these systems are based. All of these systems and networks, upon which we rely to provide our services, are potentially vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, natural disasters and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of data, public release of confidential data or the inability to complete patron transactions. Because of our dependence on a few providers, or in some cases one provider, for some of the financial services we offer to patrons, the loss of a provider could have a material adverse effect on our business or our financial performance. We depend on a few providers, or in some cases one provider, for some of the financial services that we offer to patrons. The loss of any of these providers could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Money Order Instruments. We currently rely on IPS to issue the negotiable instruments that are used to complete credit card cash advance and POS debit card transactions. Most states require a money transmitter license in order to issue the negotiable instruments that are used to complete credit card cash advance and POS debit card transactions. We do not hold any money transmitter licenses, but currently issue negotiable instruments as an agent of IPS, which holds the required money transmitter licenses, pursuant to an agreement that expires on December 31, 2009. Prior to such date we will either be required to enter in an agency relationship with another third-party that holds the required money transmitter licenses or obtain our own money transmitter licenses. We may not be able to enter into an agreement for such an agency relationship on terms that are favorable to us prior to the expiration of our agreement with IPS, or at all, and we may not be able to obtain our own money transmitter licenses, in which case we may be unable to provide our credit card cash advance and POS debit card transactions, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Check Warranty Services. We rely on TeleCheck to provide many of the check warranty services that our gaming establishment customers contract with us to use when cashing patron checks. Unless extended pursuant to its terms, our contract with TeleCheck expires on September 30, 2008. Unless we and TeleCheck mutually agree to a new contract, we will need to make alternative arrangements for the provision of check warranty services and we may not have any continuing interest in those contracts that are executed directly between the gaming establishments and TeleCheck, which may have a significant impact on revenues derived from check services. We may not be able to make such alternative arrangements on terms that are as favorable to us as the terms of our contract with TeleCheck, or on any terms at all. In addition, our Central Credit check warranty service, as currently deployed, uses risk analytics provided by third-party providers. Authorizations and Settlement. We rely on USA Payments and USA Payment Systems to provide processing services by obtaining authorizations for credit card cash advances, POS debit card transactions, ATM cash withdrawal transactions and to provide settlement transaction files to card associations for some of these transactions. Additionally, USA Payment Systems may in some cases be dependent upon a single access point to connect to the various transaction processing networks. Our agreement with USA Payments and USA Payment Systems has purportedly been terminated by USA Payments and USA Payment Systems based upon allegations that we dispute. Our intention to transition to a new processor within the transition period set forth in our agreement with USA Payments and USA Payment Systems or at all has a number of risks, including those described above under “— We may encounter difficulties managing our growth —”. 20 Table of Contents Card Association Sponsorship. We rely on Bank of America Merchant Services (“BAMS”), which is affiliated with Bank of America Corporation, for sponsorship into the Visa U.S.A. and MasterCard card associations for domestic transactions at no cost to us through September 2010. We also rely on a foreign bank in each foreign jurisdiction in which we operate, for example Banco Weng Hang in Macau SAR, to process transactions conducted in these jurisdictions through the Visa International and MasterCard card associations. ATM Cash Supply. We rely exclusively on Bank of America to supply cash for substantially all of our ATMs. Under our agreement, Bank of America is not obligated to supply us with more than $410 million in cash at any given time; however, to satisfy our ATM cash supply needs, Bank of America has regularly provided us with cash in excess of this limit. If Bank of America ever refuses to provide cash in excess of this limit, we would have an inadequate supply of cash for our ATMs. Upon the expiration of our agreement with Bank of America for the supply of ATM on December 19, 2010, we may not be able to obtain such adequate supply of cash on terms that are favorable to us or at all. Software Development and System Support. We rely on Infonox, USAPayments and USA Payment Systems for software development and system support. In addition, we rely on NRT, Western Money Systems and Glory for software development and system support related to their self-service slot ticket and player point redemption kiosks that incorporate our cash access services. Product Development. We rely on our joint venture partner and strategic partners for some of our product development. These activities have risks resulting from unproven combinations of disparate products and services, reduced flexibility in making design changes in response to market changes, reduced control over product completion schedules and the risk of disputes with our joint venture partners and strategic partners. Money Transfers. We rely on Western Union Financial Services, Inc. (“Western Union”) to facilitate money transfers. We have provided Western Union with notice of termination of our Amended and Restated Western Union North America Network Agency Agreement. In the event that we do not enter into a new agreement with Western Union or another entity to facilitate money transfers, we may not be able to continue the provision of money transfer services. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property adequately, we may lose a valuable competitive advantage or be forced to incur costly litigation to protect our rights. Our success depends on developing and protecting our intellectual property. We have entered into license agreements with other parties for intellectual property that is critical to our business. We rely on the terms of these license agreements, as well as copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws to protect our intellectual property. We also rely on other confidentiality and contractual agreements and arrangements with our employees, affiliates, business partners and customers to establish and protect our intellectual property and similar proprietary rights. We have also entered into license agreements with other parties for the exclusive use of their technology and intellectual property rights in the gaming industry, such as our license to use portions of the software infrastructure upon which our systems operate from Infonox. We rely on these other parties to maintain and protect this technology and the related intellectual property rights. If our licensors fail to protect their intellectual property rights in material that we license and we are unable to protect such intellectual property rights, the value of our licenses may diminish significantly and our business could be significantly harmed. We may have to rely on costly litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights and contractual rights. By pursuing this type of litigation, we become exposed to the risk of counterclaims and the risk that defendants will attempt to invalidate our right to the subject intellectual property or otherwise limit its scope. In addition, we may face claims of infringement that could interfere with our ability to use technology or other intellectual property rights that are material to our business operations. In the event a claim of infringement against us is successful, we may be required to pay royalties to use technology or other intellectual property rights that we had been using or we may be required to enter into a license agreement and pay license fees, or we may be required to stop using the technology or other intellectual property rights that we had been using. We may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable time. Any litigation of this type, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to us and diversions of our resources. 21 Table of Contents Our business depends on our ability to introduce new, commercially viable products and services in a timely manner. Our product development efforts are based upon a number of complex assumptions, including assumptions relating to gaming patron habits, changes in the popularity and prevalence of certain types of payment methods, anticipated transaction volumes, the costs and time required to bring new products and services to market, and the willingness and ability of both patrons and gaming establishment personnel to use new products and services and bear the economic costs of doing so. Our new products and services may not achieve market acceptance if any of our assumptions are wrong, or for other reasons. Our ability to introduce new products and services may also require regulatory approvals, which may significantly increase the costs associated with developing a new product or service and the time required to introduce a new product or service into the marketplace. In order to obtain these regulatory approvals we may need to modify our products and services which would increase our costs of development and may make our products or services less likely to achieve market acceptance. Our ability to grow our business through the introduction of new products and services depends in part on our joint development activities with third parties over whom we have little or no control. We have engaged in joint development projects with third parties in the past and we expect to continue doing so in the future. Joint development can magnify several risks for us, including the loss of control over development of aspects of the jointly developed products and disputes with our joint venture partners. We may suffer significant expense in our exit from the consumer credit business through the discontinuance of the Arriva Card. On February 28, 2008, we announced that we would discontinue offering the Arriva Card, a private label credit card. We have incurred significant bad debt losses from this business and as part of this discontinuance, we may incur further losses from consumers who are unwilling or unable to pay their balances or from the loss we may experience from selling a portion or all of the receivable balance to another entity. As of December 31, 2008 the balance of net accounts receivable was $1.5 million. We may not successfully enter new markets. If and as new and developing domestic markets develop, competition among providers of cash access products and services will intensify. If we attempt to enter these markets, we will have to expand our sales and marketing presence in these markets. In competitive bidding situations, we may not enjoy the advantage of being the incumbent provider of cash access products and services to gaming establishments in these new markets and developers and operators of gaming establishments in these new markets may have pre-existing relationships with our competitors. We may also face the uncertainty of compliance with new or developing regulatory regimes with which we are not currently familiar and oversight by regulators that are not familiar with us, or our business. Each of these risks could materially impair our ability to successfully expand our operations into these new and developing domestic markets. Attempting to enter international markets in which we have not previously operated may expose us to political, economic, tax, legal and regulatory risks not faced by businesses that operate only in the United States. The legal and regulatory regimes of foreign markets and their ramifications on our business are less certain. Our international operations will be subject to a variety of risks, including different regulatory requirements and interpretations, trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, higher rates of fraud, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, difficulty in enforcing or interpreting contracts or legislation, political and economic instability and potentially adverse tax consequences. Difficulties in obtaining approvals, licenses or waivers from the monetary and gaming authorities of other jurisdictions, in addition to other potential regulatory and quasi-regulatory issues that we have not yet ascertained, may arise in international jurisdictions into which we attempt to enter. In these new markets, our operations will rely on an infrastructure of financial services and telecommunications facilities that may not be sufficient to support our business needs, such as the authorization and settlement services that are required to implement electronic payment transactions and the telecommunications facilities that would enable us to reliably connect our networks to our products at gaming establishments in these new markets. In these new markets, we may additionally provide services based upon interpretations of applicable law, which interpretation may be subject to regulatory or judicial review. These risks, among others, could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. In connection with our expansion into new international markets, we may forge strategic relationships with business partners to assist us. The success of our expansion into these markets therefore may depend in part upon the success of the business partners with whom we forge these strategic relationships. If we do not successfully form strategic relationships with the right business partners or if we are not able to overcome cultural differences or differences in business practices, our ability to penetrate these new international markets will suffer. 22 Table of Contents We are also subject to the risk that the domestic or international markets that we attempt to enter or expand into may not develop as quickly as anticipated, or at all. The development of new gaming markets is subject to political, social, regulatory and economic forces beyond our control. The expansion of gaming activities in new markets can be very controversial and may depend heavily on the support and sponsorship of local government. Changes in government leadership, failure to obtain requisite voter support in referendums, failure of legislators to enact enabling legislation and limitations on the volume of gaming activity that is permitted in particular markets may inhibit the development of new markets. Our estimates of the potential future transaction volumes in new markets are based on a variety of assumptions, which may prove to be inaccurate. To the extent that we overestimate the potential of a new market, incorrectly gauge the timing of the development of a new market, or fail to anticipate the differences between a new market and our existing markets, we may fail in our strategy of growing our business by expanding into new markets. Moreover, if we are unable to meet the needs of our existing customers as they enter markets that we do not currently serve; our relationships with these customers could be harmed. We depend on key personnel that may be difficult to replace. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract, train and retain key executives and managers. We may need to increase the number of key managers as we further develop our products and services and as we enter new markets and expand in existing markets. Our ability to enter into contracts with gaming establishments depends in large part on the relationships that our key managers have formed with management-level personnel of gaming establishments. Competition for individuals with such relationships is intense, and we may not be successful in recruiting such personnel. Our employees are subject to certain noncompetition covenants following their departure from the Company, which noncompetition covenants could be rendered unenforceable in whole or in part. As such, we may not be able to retain such individuals as they may leave our Company and go to work for our competitors. Our sales efforts would be particularly hampered by the defection of personnel with long-standing relationships with management-level personnel of gaming establishments. If we are unable to attract or retain key personnel, our business, financial condition, operating results and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting may lead to our inability to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business, our reputation and the trading price of our stock. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. The Company’s assessment of its internal control over financial reporting has identified material weaknesses in the past, each of which was subsequently remediated. New material weaknesses may arise in the future. Any material weaknesses could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, cause a decline or volatility in our stock prices, cause a reduction in our credit ratings or tarnish our public perception. Also, increased expenses due to remediation costs and increased regulatory scrutiny are also possible. Failure to remediate the prior material weaknesses in full or the need to remediate a future material weakness could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Inadequate internal control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock and our reputation. Changes by M&C International and First Data to certain of their tax returns may have an impact on the value of a component of our deferred tax asset. In addition, changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations may adversely affect our business. In connection with the Recapitalization and Private Equity Restructuring that occurred in 2004, we recorded a deferred tax asset of $247.0 million. In connection with this deferred tax asset, we expect to pay a significantly lower amount in United States federal income taxes than we provide for in our income statements. Our calculation of the starting balance of the deferred tax asset is based upon information we received from M&C International and First Data about the gains they recorded in the Recapitalization and the Private Equity Restructuring. If M&C International or First Data change their calculation of the gains and file amended tax returns, we may be required to recalculate the starting balance of the deferred tax asset and the annual amortization thereof. Unanticipated changes in applicable income tax rates or laws or changes in our tax position could adversely impact our future results of operations. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax asset as a result of an audit or otherwise. Additionally, changes in tax laws or interpretations of such laws by domestic and foreign tax authorities could affect our results of operations. 23 Table of Contents We operate our business in regions subject to natural disasters. Any interruption to our business resulting from a natural disaster will adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. In the event of a natural disaster, the operations of gaming establishments could be negatively impacted or consumer demand for gaming could decline, or both, and as a result, our business could be interrupted, which will adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. For example, we believe that our revenues and results of operations in Louisiana and Mississippi were reduced in 2006 from what we would otherwise have expected as a result of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and that reduction may continue in the future. We do not carry any business interruption insurance. Risks related to the industry Economic downturns, a decline in the popularity of gaming or responsible gaming pressures could reduce the number of patrons that use our services or the amounts of cash that they access using our services. We provide our cash access products and related services exclusively to gaming establishments for the purpose of enabling their patrons to access cash. As a result, our business depends on consumer demand for gaming. Gaming is a discretionary leisure activity, and participation in discretionary leisure activities has in the past and may in the future decline during economic downturns because consumers have less disposable income. Gaming activity may also decline based on changes in consumer confidence related to general economic conditions or outlook, fears of war, future acts of terrorism, or other factors. A reduction in tourism could also result in a decline in gaming activity. Finally, a legislature or regulatory authority may prohibit or significantly restrict gaming activities in its jurisdiction. Gaming competes with other leisure activities as a form of consumer entertainment and may lose popularity as new leisure activities arise or as other leisure activities become more popular. In addition, gaming in traditional gaming establishments (where we provide our services) competes with Internet-based gaming, which is currently not lawful in the United States of America. The popularity and acceptance of gaming is also influenced by the prevailing social mores and changes in social mores could result in reduced acceptance of gaming as a leisure activity. To the extent that the popularity of gaming in traditional gaming establishments declines as a result of either of these factors, the demand for our cash access services may decline and our business may be harmed. Our ability to sustain our existing customer relationships and establish new customer relationships depends in part on the support of, or lack of opposition from, social responsibility organizations that are dedicated to addressing problem gaming. We may be affected by litigation or lobbying efforts to combat problem gaming because we provide patrons the ability to access their cash in gaming establishments. Changes in consumer willingness to pay a fee to access their funds could reduce the demand for our cash access products and services. Our business depends upon the willingness of patrons to pay a service fee to access their own funds on the premises of a gaming establishment. In most retail environments, consumers typically do not pay an additional fee for using non-cash payment methods such as credit cards, POS debit cards or checks. Gaming patrons could bring more cash with them to gaming establishments, or access cash outside of gaming establishments without paying a fee for the convenience of not having to leave the gaming establishment. To the extent that gaming patrons become unwilling to pay these fees for convenience or lower cost cash access alternatives become available, the demand for cash access services within gaming establishments will decline and our business could suffer. 24 Table of Contents We are subject to extensive governmental gaming regulation, which may harm our business. We are subject to a variety of regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Most of the gaming regulators in jurisdictions in which we operate distinguish between gaming-related suppliers and vendors, such as manufacturers of slot machine or other gaming devices, and non-gaming suppliers and vendors, such as food and beverage purveyors and construction contractors. In these jurisdictions, we are generally characterized as a non-gaming supplier or vendor and we must obtain a non-gaming supplier’s or vendor’s license, qualification or approval. The obtaining of these licenses, qualifications or approvals and the regulations imposed on non-gaming suppliers and vendors are typically less stringent than for gaming related suppliers and vendors. However, some of the gaming regulators in jurisdictions in which we do business do not distinguish between gaming-related and non-gaming related suppliers and vendors, and in those jurisdictions we currently are subject to the same stringent licensing, qualification and approval requirements and regulations that are imposed upon vendors and suppliers that would be characterized as gaming-related in other jurisdictions. Such requirements include licensure or finding of suitability for some of our officers, directors and beneficial owners of our securities. If gaming regulatory authorities were to find any such officer, director or beneficial owner unsuitable, or if any such officer, director, or beneficial owner fails to comply with any licensure requirements, we would be required to sever our relationship with that person. Severing our relationship with a person may require such individual ceasing to provide services to us in any capacity, including as an officer, director, employee or consultant, such person divesting himself, herself or itself of all or substantially all of its equity interest in us, and we refraining from conducting any business or maintaining any business relationship with such person or any entity that such person is a director, officer or stockholder of or otherwise affiliated with. Any of the foregoing could be costly to the Company and materially disruptive of its management and operations. Our failure to sever our relationship with a person in a manner acceptable to the gaming regulatory authorities or at all may result in the loss or denial of licensure or a finding of unsuitability, which loss or denial of licensure of finding of unsuitability by a gaming regulatory authority may prohibit us from continuing to operate in such jurisdiction. Any loss or denial of licensure or finding of unsuitability in any one jurisdiction would likely result in similar adverse regulatory actions in several other jurisdictions, resulting in a domino effect of adverse regulatory actions. The effects of the internal investigation that we announced on November 14, 2007 have resulted in heightened scrutiny from gaming regulators and an increased risk of regulatory intervention as has the activities of certain of our stockholders in the conduct of businesses unaffiliated with the Company. Some public issuances of securities and other transactions by us also require the approval of regulatory authorities. If we must obtain a gaming-related supplier’s or vendor’s license, qualification or approval because of the introduction of new products (such as products related to cashless gaming) or services or because of a change in the laws or regulations, or interpretation thereof, our business could be materially adversely affected. This increased regulation over our business could include, but is not limited to: requiring the licensure or finding of suitability in many jurisdictions of any officer, director, key employee or beneficial owner of our securities; the termination or disassociation with any officer, director, key employee or beneficial owner of our securities that fails to file an application or to obtain a license or finding of suitability; the submission of detailed financial and operating reports; submission of reports of material loans, leases and financing; and, requiring regulatory approval of some commercial transactions such as the transfer or pledge of equity interests in us. Regulatory authorities at the federal, state, local and tribal levels have broad powers with respect to the licensing of gaming-related activities and may revoke, suspend, condition or limit our licenses, impose substantial fines and take other actions against us or the gaming establishments that are our customers, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Any new gaming license or related approval that may be required in the future may not be granted, and our existing licenses may not be renewed or may be revoked, suspended or limited. If additional gaming regulations are adopted in a jurisdiction in which we operate, such regulations could impose restrictions or costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business. From time to time, various proposals are introduced in the legislatures of some of the jurisdictions in which we have existing or planned operations that, if enacted, could adversely affect the tax, regulatory, operational or other aspects of the gaming industry or cash access in the gaming industry. Legislation of this type may be enacted in the future. In addition, some of the new products and services that we may develop cannot be offered in the absence of regulatory approval of the product or service or licensing of us, or both. These approvals could require that we and our officers, directors or ultimate beneficial owners obtain a license or be found suitable and that the product or service be approved after testing and review. We may fail to obtain any such approvals in the future. When contracting with tribal owned or controlled gaming establishments, we become subject to tribal laws and regulations that may differ materially from the non-tribal laws and regulations under which we generally operate. In addition to tribal gaming regulations that may require us to provide disclosures or obtain licenses or permits to conduct our business on tribal lands, we may also become subject to tribal laws that govern our contracts. These tribal governing laws may not provide us with processes, procedures and remedies that enable us to enforce our rights as effectively and advantageously as the processes, procedures and remedies that would be afforded to us under non-tribal laws, or to enforce our rights at all. Many tribal laws permit redress to a tribal adjudicatory body to resolve disputes; however, such redress is largely untested in our experience. We may be precluded from enforcing our rights against a tribal body under the legal doctrine of sovereign immunity. A change in tribal laws and regulations or our inability to obtain required licenses or licenses to operate on tribal lands or enforce our contract rights under tribal law could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 25 Table of Contents Many of the financial services that we provide are subject to extensive rules and regulations, which may harm our business. Our Central Credit gaming patron credit bureau services are subject to the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 and similar state laws. Our QuikCredit service and TeleCheck’s and our collection practices in connection with dishonored checks with respect to which TeleCheck or Central Credit has issued authorizations pursuant to TeleCheck’s or Central Credit’s check warranty service, are subject to the Fair Debt Collections Practices Act and applicable state laws relating to debt collection. All of our cash access services and patron marketing services are subject to the privacy provisions of state and federal law, including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. Our POS debit card transactions and ATM withdrawal services are subject to the Electronic Fund Transfer Act. Our ATM services are subject to the applicable state banking regulations in each jurisdiction in which we operate ATMs. Our ATM services may also be subject to local regulations relating to the imposition of daily limits on the amounts that may be withdrawn from ATMs, the location of ATMs and our ability to surcharge cardholders who use our ATMs. The cash access services we provide are subject to recordkeeping and reporting obligations under the Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001. We are required to file suspicious activity reports, or SARs, with respect to transactions completed at all gaming establishments at which our cash access services are provided. If we are found to be noncompliant in any way with these laws, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties. In jurisdictions in which we serve as a check casher or offer our QuikCredit service, we are subject to the applicable state licensing requirements and regulations governing check cashing activities and deferred deposit service providers. We are considering obtaining money transmitter licenses in many states, which would cause us to become subject to state licensing requirements and regulations governing money transmitters. We are subject to formal or informal audits, inquiries or reviews from time to time by the regulatory authorities that enforce these financial services rules and regulations. In the event that any regulatory authority determines that the manner in which we provide cash access services, patron marketing services, gaming patron credit bureau services or private label credit cards is not in compliance with existing rules and regulations, or the regulatory authorities adopt new rules or regulations that prohibit or restrict the manner in which we provide cash access services, patron marketing services, gaming patron credit bureau services or private label credit cards, we may be forced to modify the manner in which we operate, or stop processing certain types of cash access transactions, providing patron marketing services, gaming patron credit bureau services or private label credit cards altogether. We may also be required to pay substantial penalties and fines if we fail to comply with applicable rules and regulations. For example, if we fail to file CTRs or SARs on a timely basis or if we are found to be noncompliant in any way with either the Bank Secrecy Act or the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties. In addition, our failure to comply with applicable rules and regulations could subject us to private litigation. By providing the Arriva Card to consumers, we also have become subject to a variety of state and federal laws governing credit reporting and collection practices, and such collection regulations may impede or even prevent our ability to collect amounts owed to us. These regulations include, but are not limited to, the Federal Truth in Lending Act (Regulation Z) and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (Regulation B). In addition, by providing the Arriva Card to consumers, we have become subject to an extensive array of federal and state statutes and regulations applicable to consumer lending including, but not limited to, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act. If our collection practices while we exit the consumer business are deemed to be in violation of these rules and regulations we could be subject to fines and penalties which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, cash flows or results of operations. Consumer privacy laws may change, requiring us to change our business practices or expend significant amounts on compliance with such laws. Our patron marketing services depend on our ability to collect and use non-public personal information relating to patrons who use our products and services and the transactions they consummate using our services. We are required by federal and state privacy laws and rules to safeguard and protect the privacy of such information, to make disclosures to patrons regarding our privacy and information sharing policies and, in some cases, to provide patrons an opportunity to “opt out” of the use of their information for certain purposes. The failure or circumvention of the means by which we safeguard and protect the privacy of information we gather may result in the dissemination of non-public personal information, which may harm our reputation and may expose us to liability to the affected individuals and regulatory enforcement proceedings or fines. Regulators reviewing our policies and practices may require us to modify our practices in a material or immaterial manner or impose fines or other penalties if they believe that our policies and practices do not meet the necessary standard. To the extent that our patron-marketing services have in the past failed or now or in the future fail to comply with applicable law, our privacy policies or the notices that we provide to patrons, we may become subject to actions by a regulatory authority or patrons which cause us to pay monetary penalties or require us to modify the manner in which we provide patron-marketing services. To the extent that patrons exercise their right to “opt out,” our ability to leverage existing and future databases of information would be curtailed. Consumer and data privacy laws are evolving, and due to recent high profile thefts and losses of sensitive consumer information from protected databases, such laws may be broadened in their scope and application, impose additional requirements and restrictions on gathering, encrypting and using patron information or narrow the types of information that may be collected or used for marketing or other purposes or require patrons to “opt-in” to the use of their information for specific purposes, or impose additional fines or potentially costly compliance requirements which will hamper the value of our patron-marketing services. 26 Table of Contents Risks related to our capital structure Our common stock has only been publicly traded since September 22, 2005 and we expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially. There has been a public market for our common stock since September 22, 2005. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including those described above under “— Risks related to our business,” “— Risks related to the industry” and the following: • our failure to maintain our current customers, including because of consolidation in the gaming industry; • increases in commissions paid to gaming establishments as a result of competition; • increases in interchange rates or processing or other fees paid by us or decreases in reverse interchange rates; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our or our competitors’ revenue, operating results or growth rate; • our inability to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights; • any adverse results in litigation initiated by us or by others against us; • our inability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness as they become due or our inability to undertake actions that might otherwise benefit us based on the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture for our senior subordinated notes; • the loss of a significant supplier or strategic partner, or the failure of a significant supplier or strategic partner to provide the goods or services that we rely on them for; • our inability to introduce successful, new products and services in a timely manner or the introduction of new products or services by our competitors that reduce the demand for our products and services; • our failure to successfully enter new markets or the failure of new markets to develop in the time and manner that we anticipate; • announcements by our competitors of significant new contracts or contract renewals or of new products or services; • changes in general economic conditions, financial markets, the gaming industry or the payments processing industry; • the trading volume of our common stock; • sales of common stock or other actions by our current officers, directors and stockholders; • acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures involving us or our competitors; • future sales of our common stock or other securities; • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates or recommendations by analysts; • our failure to meet the revenue, net income or earnings per share estimates of securities analysts or investors; • additions or departures of key personnel; • terrorist acts, theft, vandalism, fires, floods or other natural disasters; and • rumors or speculation as to any of the above which we may be unable to confirm or deny due to disclosure restrictions imposed on us by law or which we otherwise deem imprudent to comment upon. 27 Table of Contents Securities litigation involving the Company may be time consuming, expensive, distracting and result in an adverse resolution that materially adversely affects us. Following our public announcement on November 14, 2007 of an internal investigation by an independent committee of our Board of Directors and the delay in filing our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, the trading price of our common stock suffered a significant decline. Derivative and securities class action litigation is often brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. On December 12, 2007, a derivative action was filed by a stockholder on behalf of the Company in the United States District Court, District of Nevada against certain of our current and former directors, our former chief executive officer and our former chief financial officer, alleging breach of fiduciary duties, waste of corporate assets, unjust enrichment and violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act, as amended. On February 8, 2008, an additional derivative action was filed by a separate stockholder on behalf of the Company in the United States District Court, District of Nevada against certain of our current and former directors, our former chief executive officer and our former chief financial officer, alleging breach of fiduciary duties, insider trading and waste of corporate assets. On May 5, 2008, the foregoing actions were consolidated and an amended complaint was filed that continues to pursue only state law claims but not violations of Sections 10(b) or 20(a) of the Exchange Act, as amended. Following the filing of motions to dismiss by the defendants, a second amended complaint was filed. Thereafter, plaintiffs amended again in December 2008. The third amended complaint alleges essentially the same legal claims as former complaints and seeks, among other things, damages in favor of the Company, certain corporate actions to purportedly improve the Company’s corporate governance, and an award of costs and expenses to the plaintiff stockholders including attorneys’ fees. The defendants are seeking to dismiss the third amended complaint. The Company has indemnification agreements with each of the individual defendants that may cause the Company to incur expenses associated with the defense of this action and that may also protect such individuals from liability to the Company. The Company also maintains director and officer liability insurance that may provide for reimbursement of some of the expenses associated with this action. At this stage of the litigation, the Company is unable to make an evaluation of whether the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome is either probable or remote or the amount or range of potential loss; however, the Company believes it has meritorious defenses and will vigorously defend this action. On April 11, 2008, a class action was filed by a stockholder in the United States District Court, Southern District of New York against the Company, certain of our former directors, our former chief executive officer, M&C International, Summit Partners, L.P., and certain underwriters to two prior stock offerings to the public. On June 10, 2008, an additional class action was filed, naming essentially the same defendants and stating similar claims. On June 26, 2008, the foregoing actions were consolidated in New York, and the Court appointed a lead plaintiff and lead counsel. In August 2008, the lead plaintiff filed a consolidated amended complaint. The consolidated amended complaint names as additional defendants our former chief financial officer, certain current and former directors and additional underwriters and defendants and purports to allege violations of Sections 11, 12(a)(2) and 15 the Securities Act of 1933. The plaintiffs seek, among other things, damages and rescission. Following motions by defendants, the action transferred to the District of Nevada in October 2008 and consolidated with the pending derivative action for pretrial purposes. Defendants are seeking to dismiss the class action complaint. The Company has indemnification agreements with each of the other defendants that may cause the Company to incur expenses associated with the defense of this action and that may also protect such defendants from liability to the Company. The Company also maintains director and officer liability insurance that may provide for reimbursement of some of the expenses associated with this action. At this stage of the litigation, the Company is unable to make an evaluation of whether the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome is either probable or remote or the amount or range of potential loss; however the Company believes it has meritorious defenses and will vigorously defend this action. We are threatened with or named as a defendant in various lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of business, such as personal injury claims and employment-related claims as well being threatened or named as a defendant in lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of business and assumed as a result of the acquisition of CGS and for which we have indemnification rights. It is not possible to determine the ultimate disposition of these matters; however, we are of the opinion that the final resolution of any such threatened or pending litigation, individually or in the aggregate, is not likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, results of operations or financial position. 28 Table of Contents Future sales of our common stock may cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of additional shares of our common stock by us or our stockholders or the perception that these sales could occur. Certain stockholders have the right to require us to register their shares of our common stock. If we propose to register any of our securities under the Securities Act of 1933 either for our own account or for the accounts of other stockholders, subject to some conditions and limitations, the holders of registration rights will be entitled to include their shares of common stock in the registered offering. In addition, holders of registration rights may require us on not more than five occasions to file a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 with respect to their shares of common stock. Further, the holders of registration rights may require us to register their shares on Form S-3 if and when we are eligible to use this form. We are required to pay the costs and expenses of the registration (other than underwriting discounts and commissions and fees) and sale of all such shares of common stock. In the future, we will also issue additional shares or options to purchase additional shares to our employees, directors and consultants, in connection with corporate alliances or acquisitions, and in follow-on offerings to raise additional capital. Based on all of these factors, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales could reduce the market price of our common stock. In addition, future sales of our common stock by our stockholders could make it more difficult for us to sell additional shares of our common stock or other securities in the future. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent transactions that many stockholders may favor. Some provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying, discouraging, or preventing a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable or a change in our management or our Board of Directors. These provisions: • divide our Board of Directors into three separate classes serving staggered three-year terms, which will have the effect of requiring at least two annual stockholder meetings instead of one, to replace a majority of our directors, which could have the effect of delaying of preventing a change in our control or management; • provide that special meetings of stockholders can only be called by our Board of Directors, Chairman of the Board or Chief Executive Officer. In addition, the business permitted to be conducted at any special meeting of stockholders is limited to the business specified in the notice of such meeting to the stockholders; • provide for an advance notice procedure with regard to business to be brought before a meeting of stockholders which may delay or preclude stockholders from bringing matters before a meeting of stockholders or from making nominations for directors at a meeting of stockholders, which could delay or deter takeover attempts or changes in management; • eliminate the right of stockholders to act by written consent so that all stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called meeting; • provide that directors may only be removed for cause with the approval of stockholders holding a majority of our outstanding voting stock; • provide that vacancies on our Board of Directors may be filled by a majority, although less than a quorum, of directors in office and that our Board of Directors may fix the number of directors by resolution; • allow our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock and that otherwise could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights and the right to approve or not to approve an acquisition or other change in control, of the holders of common stock, without any further vote or action by the stockholders; and • do not provide for cumulative voting for our directors, which may make it more difficult for stockholders owning less than a majority of our stock to elect any directors to our Board of Directors. In addition, we are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which provides, subject to enumerated exceptions, that if a person acquires 15% or more of our voting stock, the person is an “interested stockholder” and may not engage in “business combinations” with us for a period of three years from the time the person acquired 15% or more of our voting stock. 29 Table of Contents These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive our stockholders of the opportunity to sell shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a premium could reduce the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 