D. Risk factors Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the events described in this section could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash available for dividends or the trading price of our common stock. Industry Specific Risk Factors Charter hire rates for dry bulk carriers may decrease in the future, which may adversely affect our earnings The dry bulk shipping industry is cyclical with attendant volatility in charter hire rates and profitability. For example, the degree of charter hire rate volatility among different types of dry bulk carriers has varied widely. Charter hire rates for Panamax and Capesize dry bulk carriers are near their historically high levels. Because we generally charter a significant portion of our vessels pursuant to short-term time charters, we are exposed to changes in spot market rates for dry bulk carriers and such changes may affect our earnings and the value of our dry bulk carriers at any given time. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully charter our vessels in the future or renew existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to meet our obligations or to pay dividends to our stockholders. Because the factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable, the nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. Factors that influence demand for vessel capacity include: o demand for and production of dry bulk products; o global and regional economic and political conditions; o the distance dry bulk is to be moved by sea; and o changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. The factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: o the number of newbuilding deliveries; o port and canal congestion; o the scrapping rate of older vessels; o vessel casualties; and o the number of vessels that are out of service. We anticipate that the future demand for our dry bulk carriers will be dependent upon continued economic growth in the world's economies, including China and India, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the global dry bulk carrier fleet and the sources and supply of dry bulk cargo to be transported by sea. The capacity of the global dry bulk carrier fleet seems likely to increase and there can be no assurance that economic growth will continue. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. The market values of our vessels may decrease, which could limit the amount of funds that we can borrow under our credit facilities The fair market values of our vessels have generally experienced high volatility. The market prices for secondhand Panamax and Capesize dry bulk carriers are at historically high levels. You should expect the market value of our vessels to fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry and prevailing charter hire rates, competition from other shipping companies and other modes of transportation, types, sizes and age of vessels, applicable governmental regulations and the cost of newbuildings. If the market value of our fleet declines, we may not be able to draw down the full amount of our credit facilities and we may not be able to obtain other financing or incur debt on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. The market values of our vessels may decrease, which could cause us to breach covenants in our credit facilities and adversely affect our operating results We believe that the market value of the vessels in our fleet is in excess of amounts required under our credit facilities. However, if the market values of our vessels, which are at or near historically high levels, decrease, we may breach some of the covenants contained in the financing agreements relating to our indebtedness at the time, including covenants in our credit facilities. If we do breach such covenants and we are unable to remedy the relevant breach, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our fleet. In addition, if the book value of a vessel is impaired due to unfavorable market conditions or a vessel is sold at a price below its book value, we would incur a loss that could adversely affect our operating results. World events could affect our results of operations and financial condition Terrorist attacks such as those in New York on September 11, 2001 and in London on July 7, 2005 and the continuing response of the United States to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, continues to cause uncertainty in the world's financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The continuing conflict in Iraq may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenues and costs. Our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could affect our operating results and the amount of available cash with which we can pay dividends We operate our vessels in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter hire rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results, which could affect the amount of dividends that we pay to our stockholders from quarter to quarter. The dry bulk carrier market is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and other raw materials in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns in these months tend to disrupt vessel scheduling and supplies of certain commodities. As a result, our revenues have historically been weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, our revenues have historically been stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. While this seasonality has not materially affected our operating results, it could materially affect our operating results and cash available for distribution to our stockholders as dividends in the future. Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our profits While we generally do not bear the cost of fuel (bunkers) under our charters, fuel is a significant, if not the largest, expense in our shipping operations when vessels are under voyage charter. Changes in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Further, fuel may become much more expensive in the future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. We are subject to international safety regulations and the failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to increased liability, may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the United Nations' International Maritime Organization's International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or ISM Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive "Safety Management System" that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. As of the date of this annual report, each of our vessels is ISM code-certified. Maritime claimants could arrest one or more of our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a claimant may seek to obtain security for its claim by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of money to have the arrest or attachment lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the "sister ship" theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could attempt to assert "sister ship" liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in a loss of earnings A government could requisition one or more of our vessels for title or for hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our revenues and reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution as dividends to our stockholders. Company Specific Risk Factors We charter a significant portion of our vessels on short-term time charters in a volatile shipping industry and a decline in charter hire rates would affect our results of operations and ability to pay dividends We charter a significant portion of our vessels pursuant to short-term time charters, although we have also entered into longer-term time charters ranging in duration from 18 months to 48 months for 13 of the vessels in our fleet, including the two Capesize dry bulk carriers that we expect to take delivery of in June and November 2007, respectively, and we may in the future employ additional vessels, including any container vessel that we may acquire, on longer term time charters. Currently, five of our vessels are employed on time charters scheduled to expire within the next six months, at which time we expect to enter into new charters for those vessels. Although significant exposure to short-term time charters is not unusual in the dry bulk shipping industry, the short-term time charter market is highly competitive and spot market charter hire rates (which affect time charter rates) may fluctuate significantly based upon available charters and the supply of, and demand for, seaborne shipping capacity. While the short-term time charter market may enable us to benefit in periods of increasing charter hire rates, we must consistently renew our charters and this dependence makes us vulnerable to declining charter rates. As a result of the volatility in the dry bulk carrier charter market, we may not be able to employ our vessels upon the termination of their existing charters at their current charter hire rates. The dry bulk carrier charter market is volatile, and in the past, short-term time charter and spot market charter rates for dry bulk carriers have declined below operating costs of vessels. We cannot assure you that future charter hire rates will enable us to operate our vessels profitably or to pay you dividends. Our earnings and the amount of dividends that we are able to pay in the future may be adversely affected if we are not able to take advantage of favorable charter rates We charter a significant portion of our dry bulk carriers to customers pursuant to short-term time charters that range in duration from several days to 13 months. However, as part of our business strategy, 13 of our vessels, including the Capesize dry bulk carriers that we expect to take delivery of in June and November 2007, respectively, are currently employed on longer-term time charters ranging in duration from 18 to 48 months. We may extend the charter periods for additional vessels in our fleet, including additional dry bulk carriers or container vessels that we may purchase in the future, to take advantage of the relatively stable cash flow and high utilization rates that are associated with long-term time charters. While we believe that longer-term charters provide us with relatively stable cash flows and higher utilization rates than shorter-term charters, our vessels that are committed to longer-term charters may not be available for employment on short-term charters during periods of increasing short-term charter hire rates when these charters may be more profitable than long-term charters. Investment in derivative instruments such as freight forward agreements could result in losses From time to time, we may take positions in derivative instruments including freight forward agreements, or FFAs. FFAs and other derivative instruments may be used to hedge a vessel owner's exposure to the charter market by providing for the sale of a contracted charter rate along a specified route and period of time. Upon settlement, if the contracted charter rate is less than the average of the rates, as reported by an identified index, for the specified route and period, the seller of the FFA is required to pay the buyer an amount equal to the difference between the contracted rate and the settlement rate, multiplied by the number of days in the specified period. Conversely, if the contracted rate is greater than the settlement rate, the buyer is required to pay the seller the settlement sum. If we take positions in FFAs or other derivative instruments and do not correctly anticipate charter rate movements over the specified route and time period, we could suffer losses in the settling or termination of the FFA. This could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We cannot assure you that our board of directors will declare dividends Our policy is to declare quarterly distributions to stockholders by each February, May, August and November substantially equal to our available cash from operations during the previous quarter after cash expenses and reserves for scheduled drydockings, intermediate and special surveys and other purposes as our board of directors may from time to time determine are required, and after taking into account contingent liabilities, the terms of our credit facilities, our growth strategy and other cash needs and the requirements of Marshall Islands law. The declaration and payment of dividends, if any, will always be subject to the discretion of our board of directors. The timing and amount of any dividends declared will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition and cash requirements and availability, our ability to obtain debt and equity financing on acceptable terms as contemplated by our growth strategy and provisions of Marshall Islands law affecting the payment of dividends. The international dry bulk shipping industry is highly volatile, and we cannot predict with certainty the amount of cash, if any, that will be available for distribution as dividends in any period. Also, there may be a high degree of variability from period to period in the amount of cash that is available for the payment of dividends. We may incur expenses or liabilities or be subject to other circumstances in the future that reduce or eliminate the amount of cash that we have available for distribution as dividends, including as a result of the risks described in this section of the annual report. Our growth strategy contemplates that we will finance the acquisition of additional vessels through a combination of debt and equity financing on terms acceptable to us. If financing is not available to us on acceptable terms, our board of directors may determine to finance or refinance acquisitions with cash from operations, which would reduce or even eliminate the amount of cash available for the payment of dividends. Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends other than from surplus (retained earnings and the excess of consideration received for the sale of shares above the par value of the shares) or while a company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent by the payment of such a dividend. We may not have sufficient surplus in the future to pay dividends. We can give no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends in the future. We may have difficulty effectively managing our planned growth, which may adversely affect our ability to pay dividends Since the completion of our initial public offering in March 2005, and after giving effect to the delivery of the four additional Capesize dry bulk carriers that we have agreed to purchase and sale of one of our Capesize dry bulk carriers, we will have taken delivery of five Panamax dry bulk carriers and six Capesize dry bulk carriers. The addition of these vessels to our fleet has resulted in a significant increase of the size of our fleet and imposes significant additional responsibilities on our management and staff. While we expect our fleet to grow further, this may require us to increase the number of our personnel. We will also have to increase our customer base to provide continued employment for the new vessels. In addition, our acquisition of our fleet manager, effective April 1, 2006, has imposed further requirements upon our management and staff. Our future growth will primarily depend on our ability to: o locate and acquire suitable vessels; o identify and consummate acquisitions or joint ventures; o enhance our customer base; o manage our expansion; and o obtain required financing on acceptable terms. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks, such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, the possibility that indemnification agreements will be unenforceable or insufficient to cover potential losses and difficulties associated with imposing common standards, controls, procedures and policies, obtaining additional qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and integrating newly acquired assets and operations into existing infrastructure. We cannot give any assurance that we will be successful in executing our growth plans or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with our future growth. If we are not able to successfully grow the size of our company or increase the size of our fleet, our ability to pay dividends will be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be able to borrow amounts under our credit facilities and restrictive covenants in our credit facilities may impose financial and other restrictions on us We entered into a secured revolving credit facility with The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in February 2005 and amended the facility in May 2006, and in January 2007 we entered into a supplemental loan agreement for an additional credit facility with the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. We have also entered into a loan agreement with Fortis Bank for a secured term loan of $60.2 million, which we intend to use to finance the pre-delivery installments of two newbuilding Capesize dry bulk carriers that we expect to take delivery of during the second quarter of 2010. We have used and intend to use our facilities in the future to finance future vessel acquisitions and our working capital requirements. Our ability to borrow amounts under the credit facilities is subject to the execution of customary documentation relating to the facilities, including security documents, satisfaction of certain customary conditions precedent and compliance with terms and conditions included in the loan documents. Prior to each drawdown, we are required, among other things, to provide the lender with acceptable valuations of the vessels in our fleet confirming that the vessels in our fleet have a minimum value and that the vessels in our fleet that secure our obligations under the facilities are sufficient to satisfy minimum security requirements. To the extent that we are not able to satisfy these requirements, including as a result of a decline in the value of our vessels, we may not be able to draw down the full amount under the credit facilities without obtaining a waiver or consent from the lender. We will also not be permitted to borrow amounts under the facilities if we experience a change of control. The credit facilities also impose operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability to, among other things: o pay dividends or make capital expenditures if we do not repay amounts drawn under our credit facility, if there is a default under the credit facility or if the payment of the dividend or capital expenditure would result in a default or breach of a loan covenant; o change the flag, class or management of our vessels; o incur additional indebtedness, including through the issuance of guarantees; o create liens on our assets; o sell our vessels; o enter into a time charter or consecutive voyage charters that have a term that exceeds, or which by virtue of any optional extensions may exceed, thirteen months; o merge or consolidate with, or transfer all or substantially all our assets to, another person; and o enter into a new line of business. Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lender in order to engage in some corporate actions. Our lenders' interests may be different from ours and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lender's permission when needed. This may limit our ability to pay dividends to you, finance our future operations, make acquisitions or pursue business opportunities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance indebtedness incurred under our credit facilities We intend to finance our future vessel acquisitions initially with secured indebtedness drawn under our credit facilities. While our current policy is to refinance amounts in excess of $150.0 million drawn under our credit facilities with the net proceeds of future equity offerings, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If we are not able to refinance these amounts with the net proceeds of equity offerings on terms acceptable to us or at all, we will have to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest of this indebtedness than if we were able to refinance such amounts. If we are not able to satisfy these obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, any defaults by them, and the market value of our fleet, among other things, may materially affect our ability to obtain alternative financing. In addition, debt service payments under our credit facility or alternative financing may limit funds otherwise available for working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations, or if we otherwise default under our credit facilities or an alternative financing arrangement, our lenders could declare the debt, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable and foreclose on our fleet, which could result in the acceleration of other indebtedness that we may have at such time and the commencement of similar foreclosure proceedings by other lenders. If the delivery of any of the four vessels that have not yet been delivered to us is delayed or delivered with significant defects, our earnings and financial condition could suffer We have entered into agreements to purchase two additional Capesize dry bulk carriers that we expect to be delivered to us in June and November 2007, respectively. Additionally, we have assumed shipbuilding contracts for two Capesize dry bulk carriers that we expect to be delivered to us during the second quarter of 2010. A delay in the delivery of one or more of these vessels to us or the failure of the contract counterparty to deliver one or more of these vessels at all could adversely affect our earnings, our financial condition and the amount of dividends that we pay in the future. Purchasing and operating secondhand vessels may result in increased operating costs and reduced fleet utilization While we have the right to inspect previously owned vessels prior to our purchase of them and we intend to inspect all secondhand vessels that we acquire in the future, such an inspection does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition that we would have if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. A secondhand vessel may have conditions or defects that we were not aware of when we bought the vessel and which may require us to incur costly repairs to the vessel. These repairs may require us to put a vessel into drydock which would reduce our fleet utilization. Furthermore, we usually do not receive the benefit of warranties on secondhand vessels. In the highly competitive international shipping industry, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources We employ our vessels in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of dry bulk cargo by sea is intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its operators to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter the dry bulk shipping industry and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions and may be able to offer lower charter rates and higher quality vessels than we are able to offer. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may negatively impact the effectiveness of our management and results of operations Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team. We have entered into employment contracts with our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Simeon Palios, our President, Mr. Anastassis Margaronis, our Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Andreas Michalopoulos, and our Vice President, Mr. Ioannis Zafirakis. Our success will depend upon our ability to retain key members of our management team and to hire new members as may be necessary. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining replacement personnel could have a similar effect. We do not currently, nor do we intend to, maintain "key man" life insurance on any of our officers. Risks associated with operating ocean-going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which could adversely affect our revenues and stock price The operation of ocean-going vessels carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: o marine disaster; o environmental accidents; o cargo and property losses or damage; o business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions; and o piracy. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues. The involvement of our vessels in an environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. The shipping industry has inherent operational risks that may not be adequately covered by our insurance We procure insurance for our fleet against risks commonly insured against by vessel owners and operators. Our current insurance includes hull and machinery insurance, war risks insurance and protection and indemnity insurance (which includes environmental damage and pollution insurance). We can give no assurance that we are adequately insured against all risks or that our insurers will pay a particular claim. Even if our insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to timely obtain a replacement vessel in the event of a loss. Furthermore, in the future, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet. We may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive indemnity insurance coverage for tort liability. Our insurance policies also contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions which, although we believe are standard in the shipping industry, may nevertheless increase our costs. Our vessels may suffer damage and we may face unexpected drydocking costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. The loss of earnings while a vessel is being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs not covered by our insurance, would decrease our earnings and reduce the amount of cash that we have available for dividends. We may not have insurance that is sufficient to cover all or any of the costs or losses for damages to our vessels and may have to pay drydocking costs not covered by our insurance. The aging of our fleet may result in increased operating costs in the future, which could adversely affect our earnings In general, the cost of maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increases with the age of the vessel. Our fleet, after giving effect to the delivery of the two additional Capesize dry bulk carriers that we have agreed to purchase and sale of one of our Capesize dry bulk carriers, which we expect to occur in 2007, will consist of thirteen Panamax dry bulk carriers and six Capesize dry bulk carriers having a combined carrying capacity of 2.2 million dwt and as of November 2007 a weighted average age, excluding the two Capesize dry bulk carriers that are under construction, of 3.1 years. As our fleet ages, we will incur increased costs. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations and safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may also require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. We are exposed to U.S. dollar and foreign currency fluctuations and devaluations that could harm our reported revenue and results of operations We generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but currently incur over half of our operating expenses and the majority of our general and administrative expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the euro. Because a significant portion of our expenses are incurred in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our expenses may from time to time increase relative to our revenues as a result of fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly between the U.S. dollar and the euro, which could affect the amount of net income that we report in future periods. While we historically have not mitigated the risk associated with exchange rate fluctuations through the use of financial derivatives, we may employ such instruments from time to time in the future in order to minimize this risk. Our use of financial derivatives would involve certain risks, including the risk that losses on a hedged position could exceed the nominal amount invested in the instrument and the risk that the counterparty to the derivative transaction may be unable or unwilling to satisfy its contractual obligations, which could have an adverse effect on our results. We may have to pay tax on United States source income, which would reduce our earnings Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as United States source shipping income and such income is subject to a 4% United States federal income tax without allowance for deductions, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations. We expect that we and each of our subsidiaries qualify for this statutory tax exemption for the 2006 taxable year and we will take this position for United States federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption in future years and thereby become subject to United States federal income tax on our United States source income. For example, in 2006, our 5% shareholders owned approximately 48.58% of our outstanding stock. There is a risk that we could no longer qualify for exemption under Code section 883 for a particular taxable year if other shareholders with a five percent or greater interest in our stock were, in combination with our existing 5% shareholders, to own 50% or more of our outstanding shares of our stock on more than half the days during the taxable year. Due to the factual nature of the issues involved, we can give no assurances on our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to this exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries would be subject for those years to a 4% United States federal income tax on our U.S.-source shipping income. The imposition of this taxation could have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our stockholders. For the 2006 and 2007 taxable years, we estimate that our maximum United States federal income tax liability would be immaterial if we were to be subject to this taxation. Please see the section of this annual report entitled "Taxation" under item 10E for a more comprehensive discussion of the United States federal income tax consequences. United States tax authorities could treat us as a "passive foreign investment company", which could have adverse United States federal income tax consequences to United States holders A foreign corporation will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company," or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of "passive income." For purposes of these tests, "passive income" includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income." United States stockholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous United States federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our current and proposed method of operation, we do not believe that we will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time chartering activities does not constitute "passive income," and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our proposed method of operation. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our United States stockholders will face adverse United States tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those stockholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such stockholders, such stockholders would be liable to pay United States federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common shares, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the stockholder's holding period of our common shares. We depend upon a few significant customers for a large part of our revenues and the loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect our financial performance We have historically derived a significant part of our revenues from a small number of charterers. During the years 2006 and 2005 approximately 50% and 63%, respectively of our revenues derived from three and four charterers, respectively. If one or more of our charterers chooses not to charter our vessels or is unable to perform under one or more charters with us and we are not able to find a replacement charter, we could suffer a loss of revenues that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution as dividends to our stockholders. We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations and to make dividend payments We are a holding company and our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make dividend payments depends on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, our board of directors may exercise its discretion not to declare or pay dividends. We do not intend to obtain funds from other sources to pay dividends. As we expand our business, we may need to improve our operating and financial systems and will need to recruit suitable employees and crew for our vessels Our current operating and financial systems may not be adequate as we expand the size of our fleet and our attempts to improve those systems may be ineffective. In addition, as we expand our fleet, we will need to recruit suitable additional seafarers and shoreside administrative and management personnel. While we have not experienced any difficulty in recruiting to date, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to hire suitable employees as we expand our fleet. If we or our crewing agent encounters business or financial difficulties, we may not be able to adequately staff our vessels. If we are unable to grow our financial and operating systems or to recruit suitable employees as we expand our fleet, our financial performance may be adversely affected and, among other things, the amount of cash available for distribution as dividends to our stockholders may be reduced. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock There is no guarantee that there will continue to be an active and liquid public market for you to resell our common stock in the future The price of our common stock may be volatile and may fluctuate due to factors such as: o actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results and those of other public companies in our industry; o mergers and strategic alliances in the dry bulk shipping industry; o market conditions in the dry bulk shipping industry; o changes in government regulation; o shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; o announcements concerning us or our competitors; and o the general state of the securities market. The dry bulk shipping industry has been highly unpredictable and volatile. The market for common stock in this industry may be equally volatile. We are incorporated in the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or the BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the laws of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in the United States. The rights of stockholders of the Marshall Islands may differ from the rights of stockholders of companies incorporated in the United States. While the BCA provides that it is to be interpreted according to the laws of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, there have been few, if any, court cases interpreting the BCA in the Marshall Islands and we can not predict whether Marshall Islands courts would reach the same conclusions as United States courts. Thus, you may have more difficulty in protecting your interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling stockholders than would stockholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction which has developed a relatively more substantial body of case law. Certain existing stockholders will be able to exert considerable control over matters on which our stockholders are entitled to vote Entities affiliated with our President and Chief Executive Officer and certain other large stockholders currently own 17,768,750 shares or 28.26% of our outstanding common stock. Please see the section A of item 7 of this annual report entitled "Major Stockholders". While these stockholders have no agreement, arrangement or understanding relating to the voting of their shares of our common stock, they effectively control the outcome of matters on which our stockholders are entitled to vote, including the election of directors and other significant corporate actions. The interests of these stockholders may be different from your interests. Future sales of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that these sales could occur, may depress the market price for our common stock. These sales could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities in the future. We intend to issue additional shares of our common stock in the future to refinance indebtedness in excess of $150.0 million incurred in connection with the acquisition of vessels and our stockholders may elect to sell large numbers of shares held by them from time to time. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize us to issue up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 62,875,000 shares are outstanding. The number of shares of common stock available for sale in the public market are limited by restrictions applicable under securities laws and agreements that we and our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders have entered into. Prior to our initial public offering, we entered into a registration rights agreement with Corozal Compania Naviera S.A., Ironwood Trading Corp. and Zoe S. Company Ltd., certain of our stockholders, pursuant to which we have granted them, their affiliates (including Mr. Simeon Palios, Mr. Anastassis Margaronis and Mr. Ioannis Zafirakis) and certain of their transferees, the right, under certain circumstances and subject to certain restrictions, including restrictions included in the lock-up agreements to which they are a party, to require us to register under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, shares of our common stock held by them. Under the registration rights agreement, these persons have the right to request us to register the sale of shares held by them on their behalf and may require us to make available shelf registration statements permitting sales of shares into the market from time to time over an extended period. In addition, these persons have the ability to exercise certain piggyback registration rights in connection with registered offerings requested by stockholders or initiated by us. Registration of such shares under the Securities Act would, except for shares purchased by affiliates, result in such shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of such registration. In addition, shares not registered pursuant to the registration rights agreement may, be resold pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, including the exemptions provided by Rule 144 and Regulation S under the Securities Act. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could make it difficult for our stockholders to replace or remove our current board of directors or have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock Several provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it difficult for our stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions include: o authorizing our board of directors to issue "blank check" preferred stock without stockholder approval; o providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three year terms; o prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; o authorizing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock entitled to vote for the directors; o prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; o limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and o establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan pursuant to which our board of directors may cause the substantial dilution of any person that attempts to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors. These anti-takeover provisions, including provisions of our stockholder rights plan, could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. 