Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All forward-looking statements and risk factors included in this document are made as of the date hereof, based on information available to us as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement or risk factor. You should consult the risk factors listed from time to time in our Reports on Form 10-Q. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Global Cash Access Holdings, Inc. is a holding company, the principal asset of which is the capital stock of Global Cash Access, Inc. Global Cash Access, Inc. directly or indirectly owns all of the assets and either all or a majority of the equity interests of the subsidiaries which operate our business. Unless otherwise indicated, the terms “Global Cash Access,” “we,” “us,” “our,” “the Company,” “our company” and “our business” refer to Global Cash Access Holdings, Inc. together with its consolidated subsidiaries. Overview We are a provider of cash access products and related services to the gaming industry in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, the Caribbean, Switzerland and Belgium. Our products and services provide gaming establishment patrons access to cash through a variety of methods, including Automated Teller Machine (“ATM”) cash withdrawals, credit card cash advances, point-of-sale, or POS, debit card transactions, check verification and warranty services and money transfers. In addition, we provide products and services that improve credit decision-making, automate cashier operations and enhance patron marketing activities for gaming establishments. 3 Table of Contents We provide cash access products and related services at approximately 985 gaming establishments worldwide. In general, our contracts with gaming establishments are exclusive, range in duration from three to five years and are global in that they govern all of an operator’s gaming establishments wherever they are located around the world. In 2005, we processed over 72.7 million transactions which resulted in approximately $15.7 billion in cash being disbursed to gaming patrons. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we generated revenues and operating income of $454.1 million and $82.3 million, respectively. We began our operations in July 1998 as a joint venture limited liability company among M&C International and entities affiliated with Bank of America and First Data Corporation. In September 2000, Bank of America sold its entire ownership interest in us to M&C International and First Data Corporation. In March 2004, all of our outstanding capital stock was contributed to a holding company and all of First Data Corporation’s interest in us was redeemed. Simultaneously, Bank of America reacquired an ownership interest in us. In May 2004, M&C International sold a portion of its ownership interest to a number of private equity investors, including entities affiliated with Summit Partners, and we converted from a limited liability company to a corporation. Our principal executive offices are located at 3525 East Post Road, Suite 120, Las Vegas, Nevada 89120. Our telephone number is (800) 833-7110. Our web site address is www.globalcashaccess.com. The information on our web site is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Business Our cash access products and services enable three primary types of electronic payment transactions: ATM cash withdrawals, credit card cash advances and POS debit card transactions. As of December 31, 2005, patrons could complete any of these three transactions at any one of 896 Casino Cash Plus 3-in-1 ATM machines, 297 Automated Cashier Machines (“ACMs”) or 75 3-in-1 Enabled QuickJack Plus devices. We own nearly all of these devices. In addition, patrons can complete credit card cash advances and POS debit card transactions at any one of the approximately 3,000 QuikCash kiosks, all of which we own. We also provide check verification and warranty services to gaming establishments that cash patron checks. ATM Cash Withdrawals ATM cash withdrawal transactions represent the largest category of electronic payment transactions that we process, as measured by dollar and transaction volume. In an ATM cash withdrawal, a patron directly withdraws funds from his or her bank account by swiping an ATM card through either our Casino Cash Plus 3-in-1 ATM or ACMs. Our processor then routes the transaction request through an electronic funds transfer, or EFT, network to the patron’s bank. Depending upon a number of factors, including the patron’s account balance and daily withdrawal limit (which is usually $300 to $500 during a 24-hour period and is determined by the patron’s bank), the bank will either decline or authorize the transaction. If the transaction is authorized, then the ATM or ACM machine dispenses the cash to the customer. The patron’s bank account is debited by the amount of cash disbursed plus a surcharge that we assess the patron for the use of our machine, which is currently a fixed dollar amount and not a percentage of the transaction size. In most circumstances we share a portion of this surcharge with our gaming establishment customer for the right to operate on its premises. We also receive a fee we refer to as reverse interchange from the patron’s bank for accommodating the bank’s customer. Credit Card Cash Advances and POS Debit Card Transactions Patrons can also obtain credit card cash advances and POS debit card transactions using our Casino Cash Plus 3-in-1 ATMs or ACM machines as well as at our QuikCash kiosks. A patron’s credit card cash advance limit is set by the card issuing bank based on the patron’s credit profile. These limits vary significantly and can be larger or smaller than the POS debit limit. A credit card cash advance transaction obligates the patron to repay the issuing bank over time on terms that are preset by the cardholder agreement. A patron’s POS debit card allows him or her to make cash withdrawals at the point of sale in an amount equal to the lesser of the amount of funds in his or her account or a daily limit that is generally five to ten times as large as the patron’s daily ATM limit. A POS debit card transaction immediately reduces the balance in the patron’s account. 4 Table of Contents When a patron requests a credit card cash advance or POS debit card transaction, our processor routes the transaction request through one of the card association (e.g., VISA or MasterCard) or EFT networks (e.g., Star, Interlink or Maestro) to the issuing bank. Depending upon several factors such as the available credit or bank account balance, the transaction is either authorized or declined by the issuing bank, and, if authorized, the patron’s bank account is debited or their credit balance is increased by an amount equal to the funds requested plus a service fee that we charge the patron, which is a percentage of the transaction size. If the transaction is authorized, our machines inform the patron that the transaction has been approved. If the transaction involves one of the card associations that has permitted us to complete transactions at an ACM, cash is dispensed. Otherwise, our machines instruct the patron to proceed to the casino cashier to complete the transaction, because credit card cash advances and POS debit card transactions involving other card associations must currently be completed in face-to-face environments and a unique signature must be received in order to comply with rules of those card associations. Once at the cashier, the patron acknowledges payment of the fee and authorizes the transaction by signing a check made payable to the casino in an amount equal to the face amount and receives the face amount in cash. We remit the face amount to our money order provider and retain the fee. The gaming establishment deposits the money order in its own bank, and after a period of two to three days, the money order is presented to our money order provider for payment. As in the case of ATM withdrawals, we pay the gaming establishment a portion of the service fee as a commission for the right to operate on their premises, although this payment as percentage of the fee is generally smaller for credit card cash advances and POS debit card transactions than for ATM withdrawals. In addition, we are obligated to pay interchange fees to the issuing bank and processing costs related to the electronic payment transaction. Check Verification and Warranty Services Although the usage of checks relative to other forms of payment is declining, a significant number of patrons still cash checks at gaming establishments to fund their gaming play. When a patron presents a check at the cashier, the gaming establishment can accept or deny the transaction based on its own customer information and at its own risk; it can obtain third-party verification information about the check writer and the check to manage its risk; or it can obtain a warranty on payment of the check which entitles the gaming establishment to reimbursement of the full face amount of the check if it is dishonored. There are a number of check verification services. One such service is our Central Credit database, which is used primarily by gaming establishments to make credit issuing decisions, also has information on the check cashing history of many patrons. In general, we do not charge separately for this service on a per transaction basis, but rather charge a fixed monthly subscription fee. If a gaming establishment chooses to have a check warranted, it sends a request to a check warranty service provider, asking whether it will warrant the check. If the check warranty service provider warrants payment on the check, the gaming establishment is obligated to pay a fee for that service. The gaming establishment then pays the patron the face amount and deposits the check. If the check is dishonored by the patron’s bank, the gaming establishment invokes the warranty, and the check warranty service provider purchases the check from the gaming establishment for the face amount and then pursues collection activities on its own. TeleCheck is currently our primary check warranty service provider. Under our agreement with TeleCheck, we receive all of TeleCheck’s check warranty revenue, less operating expenses and warranty expenses. Operating expenses are fixed at a percentage of TeleCheck’s check warranty revenues. Warranty expenses are defined as any amounts paid by TeleCheck to gaming establishments to purchase dishonored checks. Our agreement further provides that TeleCheck will pay us the actual collections realized within 120 days after a check is purchased, subject to the obligation to pay us a guaranteed minimum amount of dishonored checks. As described in more detail below, we have developed our own Central Credit check warranty service as an alternative to TeleCheck’s check warranty service. Central Credit In addition to the three primary types of electronic payment transactions described above, a small number of gaming establishment patrons can access funds through credit extended by gaming establishments. Central Credit is 5 Table of Contents the leading gaming patron credit bureau, and it allows gaming establishments to improve their credit-making decisions. Our Central Credit database contains decades of gaming patron credit history and transaction data on millions of gaming patrons. Our gaming credit reports are comprised of information recorded from patron experiences at hundreds of gaming establishments. We provide such information to gaming establishments, who use that data, among other things, to determine if or how much credit they will grant credit to a patron. At a gaming establishment’s request, we can augment the information provided in our gaming credit reports with traditional credit reports or bank ratings through our relationships with consumer credit bureaus and bank reporting agencies. We charge our customers for Central Credit services on a monthly basis for either unlimited usage or a per transaction fee. Other We also market money transfer services that allow patrons to receive money transfers at gaming establishments and provide information services that automate cashier operations and enhance patron marketing activities. Our Products and Services Our customer solutions consist of cash access products and services, information services and cashless gaming products. Cash Access Products and Services Information Services Cashless Gaming Products • Casino Cash Plus 3-in-1 ATM • Central Credit • TODD • QuikCash • QuikCash Plus Web • EDITH • Automated Cashier Machine • QuikReports • 3-in-1 Enabled QuickJack Plus • Check verification and warranty • QuikMarketing • QuikCredit • Money transfers Cash Access Products and Services We provide gaming establishments with the ability to enable their patrons to access cash through a variety of products and services. Casino Cash Plus 3-in-1 ATM is an unmanned, cash-dispensing machine that offers patrons a quick way to access cash through ATM cash withdrawals, POS debit card transactions and credit card cash advances using our patented “3-in-1 rollover” functionality. Statistics show that approximately 30% of standard ATM transactions taking place in gaming properties are denied because of bad Personal Identification Numbers (PIN), exceeded limits, insufficient funds, and other miscellaneous reasons. Our patented “3-in-1 rollover” functionality allows a gaming patron to easily convert an unsuccessful ATM cash withdrawal into a POS debit card transaction or a credit card cash advance. When a patron is denied a standard ATM transaction, our “3-in-1 rollover” functionality automatically provides the option of obtaining funds via a POS debit card transaction or a credit card cash advance. For authorized ATM transactions, the Casino Cash Plus 3-in-1 ATM dispenses cash to the patron. For successful POS debit card transactions and credit card cash advances, once the transaction is authorized, the Casino Cash Plus 3-in-1 ATM instructs the patron to proceed to the cashier who completes the transaction by verifying the patron’s identity, completing the money order in accordance with the rules of major card associations, and dispensing cash to the patron. By providing gaming patrons seamless access to three different transaction types, our “3-in-1 rollover” functionality provides casino patrons ease of access to their money and makes cash available to patrons for gaming within the gaming establishment. In addition to our own ATM machines, we have a strategic alliance with Hibernia National Bank pursuant to which we have incorporated our “3-in-1 rollover” functionality into Hibernia National Bank ATMs that are located in gaming establishments. As of December 31, 2005 we had incorporated our “3-in-1 rollover” functionality into 36 Hibernia National Bank ATMs that are located in gaming establishments. QuikCash is the brand name of our stand-alone, non-ATM cash advance kiosks for the gaming industry. Our QuikCash kiosks are customer-activated, touch screen terminals that provide patrons with access to credit card cash advances and POS debit card transactions. Available in countertop, wall-mount, free-standing and handheld 6 Table of Contents models, our QuikCash terminals can be installed or used virtually anywhere in a gaming establishment. For successful advances, once the transaction is authorized, the patron is instructed to proceed to the cashier who completes the transaction by verifying the patron’s identity, completing the money order in accordance with the rules of major card associations, and dispensing cash to the patron. Our terminals provide gaming patrons with fast, reliable, and easily accessible sources of cash close to the areas within the gaming establishment where gaming activity is conducted. Automated Cashier Machine (ACM) is an unmanned, cash-dispensing “virtual cashier” which was designed to provide casino patrons with credit card cash advances, POS debit card transactions and ATM cash withdrawals as well as check cashing services without the need to visit the cashier after the initial “registration transaction.” Our ACM devices provide gaming patrons the same seamless cash access features as our Casino Cash Plus 3-in-1 ATMs while allowing gaming establishments to reduce the dependency on casino personnel to complete transactions. After an initial face-to-face enrollment transaction performed with the assistance of a gaming establishment’s cashier, our ACMs use biometric facial recognition technology, as a surrogate for face-to-face interaction with the cashier, to verify the patron’s identity. By eliminating the cashier interaction requirement, our ACMs have the potential to reduce transaction times, to improve the customer experience and to reduce a gaming establishment’s cashier labor costs. ATM transactions, check cashing transactions and credit card cash advance and POS debit card transactions involving one of the major card associations can be completed at the ACM without the assistance of a cashier so long as we assume chargeback liability for any transaction in which we do not obtain a contemporaneous cardholder signature, which may result in increased chargeback liability. The use of biometric facial recognition is not an accepted surrogate for face-to-face interaction by other major card associations. We have been actively working with the card associations to achieve broader acceptance of biometric facial recognition as an approved transaction completion protocol. Some of our largest and most sophisticated customers have migrated to the ACM as the standard cash access platform in their gaming establishments. Check verification and warranty services allow gaming establishments to manage or eliminate risk on patron checks that they cash. A gaming establishment can query our Central Credit database to review the check cashing history of a casino patron before deciding whether to cash the patron’s check. If the gaming establishment wants additional protection against loss, it can seek a warranty on payment of the check. We have an exclusive relationship with TeleCheck to market its check warranty services to gaming establishments. As an alternative to TeleCheck’s check warranty service, we have developed our own Central Credit check warranty service that is based upon our Central Credit database, our proprietary patron transaction database, third-party risk analytics and actuarial assumptions. QuikCredit is a service through which we provide lines of credit to patrons in gaming establishments that choose not to offer in-house credit. Our QuikCredit service allows a gaming establishment to increase the amount of cash available within the gaming establishment without incurring credit risk. To use QuikCredit, a gaming patron deposits a check payable to us with the gaming establishment. The patron’s check is deposited under deferred presentment terms, meaning the check will not be presented for payment for a specified period of time. A gaming establishment using QuikCredit then seeks an authorization from us. We currently query both our Central Credit database and the TeleCheck database to assess the patron’s credit risk. If the check and check writer satisfy risk criteria and underwriting guidelines, we issue an authorization to the gaming establishment to endorse the check over to the gaming establishment and to dispense the patron’s funds. If any authorized check is subsequently dishonored, we purchase the check from the gaming establishment for its face amount, thereby eliminating any collection risk to the gaming establishment. The maximum line of credit we extend is $5,000 per patron and in 2005, the average line of credit extended was approximately $1,400. Money transfer services are provided through a contractual relationship with Western Union Financial Services, Inc., or Western Union. We are the worldwide exclusive marketer to the gaming industry of Western Union’s electronic and paper-based systems for receiving funds transfers at gaming establishments. Western Union Financial Services, Inc. contracts directly with gaming establishments and we receive a monthly payment based upon the number of transactions completed. 7 Table of Contents Information Services We market our information services to gaming establishments to improve credit decision-making, to automate cashier operations and to enhance patron marketing activities. Improve Credit Decision-Making Central Credit is the leading gaming patron credit bureau, and it allows gaming establishments to improve their credit making decisions. Our Central Credit database contains decades of gaming patron credit history and transaction data on millions of gaming patrons. Our gaming credit reports are comprised of information recorded from patron experiences at hundreds of gaming establishments. We provide such information to gaming establishments, who use that data, among other things, to determine if or how much credit they will grant to a patron. At a gaming establishment’s request, we can augment the information provided in our gaming credit reports with traditional credit reports or bank ratings through our relationships with consumer credit bureaus and bank reporting agencies. Automated Cashier Operations QuikCash Plus (QCP) Web is a proprietary browser-based, full service cash access transaction processing system for casino cashier operations which runs on a gaming establishment’s own computer hardware. Cashiers using QCP Web can process credit card cash advances, POS debit card transactions, check verification and warranty services, money transfer, and Central Credit services online through a single terminal. Without QCP Web, casino cage operators are required to access multiple systems running on disparate hardware and software platforms. QCP Web reduces cage operating complexity, improves transaction times, saves space by eliminating multiple pieces of hardware and reduces training requirements for cage operators resulting in lower operating costs for gaming establishments. QCP Web is delivered as an application service with a customizable user interface that allows gaming establishments to add additional workstations by simply connecting them to the application server. In addition, QCP Web assists gaming establishments in satisfying legal reporting requirements by notifying their designated compliance personnel of the need to generate and file required regulatory reports, such as Currency Transaction Reports, or CTRs, and Suspicious Activity Reports, or SARs. Enhance Patron Marketing Using our proprietary patron transaction database, we provide patron marketing data to gaming establishments. Gaming establishment marketing professionals can use our patron data to develop, implement and refine their customer loyalty programs. Since marketing, including providing complimentary goods and services, is one of a gaming establishment’s largest cost items, we believe that gaming establishments will find our patron marketing services increasingly helpful as they try to attract new patrons and to retain valued patrons. Because we have data on patron cash access activity across multiple gaming establishments, we are uniquely able to help an operator understand how much of a patron’s cash access activity, in aggregate, is being done in other gaming establishments in order to gauge the patron’s loyalty to the gaming establishment. QuikReports is a browser-based reporting tool that provides marketing professionals with real-time access to, and analysis of, information on patron cash access activity. We provide this information through a secure Internet connection at user-specified levels of detail ranging from aggregated summary information to individual cash access transactions. For example, an operator may use QuikReports to focus its marketing efforts on target patrons by generating a report of the patrons who accessed the greatest amounts of cash at the operator’s gaming establishment during a specified period, and comparing the amounts of cash accessed at the operator’s gaming establishments with the aggregate amounts of cash accessed at other gaming establishments that are part of our network. A gaming establishment may also use QuikReports to monitor or analyze the cash access activities of its patrons to determine peak periods, the relative popularity of various cash access methods, or the traffic volumes, at particular machines in particular locations. QuikMarketing. Through our QuikMarketing service, we query our proprietary patron transaction database of more than 15 million gaming patrons using criteria supplied by the gaming establishment. We then distribute gaming establishment-supplied marketing materials to patrons in our database that match target patron criteria 8 Table of Contents supplied by the gaming establishment. In 2005, some of our largest customers utilized our QuikMarketing services to execute approximately 19 projects which sent out approximately 1.7 million pieces of mail. Our proprietary patron transaction database includes information that is captured from transactions we process in which personal information is available; ATM transactions are not included. As the applicable transaction volume increases, we continue to build existing patron profiles and add new patron profiles. During 2005, we added approximately 173,000 new patron profiles each month. Cashless Gaming Products A recent trend in gaming has been the movement towards cashless gaming as a more efficient means for gaming operators to manage their slot machine operations. Cashless gaming, also known as “ticket-in-ticket-out,” reduces the amount of cash utilized in slot machines and consequently reduces casino labor needs by dispensing bar-coded tickets instead of cash for jackpots and cash-outs. To capitalize on the movement towards cashless gaming initiatives, we have developed, together with our strategic partners, products that facilitate an efficient means of accessing funds in a cashless gaming environment. Our cash access services are platform independent and our existing infrastructure has been designed to be adaptable to new platforms and/or operating environments. TODD “Ticket-Out Debit Device” is a cashless gaming product developed by QuikPlay LLC, or QuikPlay, our joint venture with International Game Technology, or IGT, that allows slot machine patrons to access funds without leaving the machines they are playing. When a slot machine is equipped with TODD technology, a slot machine patron swipes his or her POS debit card and enters the PIN and the requested transaction amount on a terminal mounted on the slot machine. If the transaction is approved, the patron’s funds are either credited to the slot machine for play at that machine or a bar-coded ticket is printed that may be used at another ticket-enabled slot machine. TODD-enabled slot machines offer patrons convenience and reduce the amounts of cash carried by patrons. Our cashless slot technology also reduces the cash-handling burden of gaming establishments. Our TODD cashless gaming product has been approved for use in only one casino and cannot be used at any other location until we receive approval from the appropriate authorities. EDITH “Electronic Debit Interactive Terminal Housing” is a next-generation cashless gaming device developed by QuikPlay that allows gaming patrons to purchase slot machine tickets from a customer-activated kiosk. EDITH is functionally similar to TODD, but instead of being deployed at an individual slot machine, EDITH is a stand-alone unit that is placed at the end of banks of slot machines. EDITH has not yet been approved for use at any gaming establishment. 3-in-1 Enabled QuickJack Plus is a multi-function patron kiosk which incorporates our “3-in-1 rollover” functionality for cash access into self-service kiosks for slot ticket redemption services provided by NRT Technology Corporation, or NRT. When a patron presses the cash out button on a cashless slot machine, the patron receives the value of the winnings on a paper ticket dispensed from a printer embedded in the slot machine. The ticket can then be inserted into other slot machines or exchanged for cash at a QuickJack Plus kiosk. The availability of our cash access services on these slot ticket redemption devices provides us with additional points of contact with gaming patrons at locations that are closer to the slot machines than traditional cash access devices that are typically located on the periphery of the area within the gaming establishment where gaming activity is conducted. These additional points of contact provide gaming patrons with more opportunities to access their cash with less cashier involvement, thereby creating labor cost savings for gaming establishments. In addition, by incorporating our cash access services into QuickJack Plus, we enjoy the benefit of NRT’s existing relationships with gaming establishments and its sales and marketing efforts directed towards additional gaming establishments. Subject to certain exclusions, we have the exclusive right to provide cash access services on self-service redemption devices serviced by NRT. We have a similar alliance with Western Money Systems, another provider of slot ticket and player point redemption kiosks, subject to completion of development and regulatory approval. Customer Service We operate a customer service call center from our facility in Las Vegas, Nevada that is accessible 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Our customer service representatives assist cashier personnel and gaming patrons in their use 9 Table of Contents of our products and services. Through our use of third-party translation services, our customer service representatives can serve gaming establishment customers and patrons in approximately 150 different languages. Intellectual Property We believe that the ability to introduce and respond to technological innovation in the gaming industry will be an increasingly important qualification for the future success of any provider of cash access services. Our continued competitiveness will depend on the pace of our product development; our patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection; and our relationships with customers. Our business development personnel work with gaming establishments, our joint venture partners, our strategic partners and the suppliers of the financial services upon which our cash access services rely to design and develop innovative cash access products and services and to identify potential new solutions for the delivery and distribution of cash in gaming establishments. We have two issued United States patents, six pending United States patent applications and nine United States trademark registrations, some of which are pending registration in the United States and in other countries, including two registered United States trademarks related to our ACM product, one registered United States trademark relating to our name and other trademarks, some of which are only registered in the United States. However, we rely principally on unregistered copyrights and trade secrets for protection of our intellectual property. Our ACMs use biometric facial recognition technology and our patented “3-in-1 rollover” functionality to provide credit card cash advances, POS debit card transactions, ATM cash withdrawals, check cashing and money transfer services at a single, unmanned machine. These technologies are key differentiating technologies from our competitors. Some of our systems, such as the software that implements our QCP Web and QuikReports products and the software that drives our ACM product, were developed by Infonox on the Web, a corporation that is under common control with M&C International, and are hosted and operated on an infrastructure platform that is owned by Infonox on the Web. We own all of the intellectual property developed by Infonox on the Web to implement our products and services on such infrastructure platform, and Infonox on the Web has granted us an exclusive license in the gaming industry to use its infrastructure platform to deliver our products and services to our customers. Sales and Marketing We sell and market our products and services to gaming establishments primarily through the use of a direct sales force. The target customers of our direct sales force are gaming establishments in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and the Caribbean as well as gaming establishments in developing markets. These gaming establishments include traditional land-based casinos, gaming establishments operated on Native American lands, racinos, riverboats, cruise ships with gaming operations, pari-mutuel wagering facilities and card rooms. In 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively, revenues from our operations in the United Kingdom, Canada, the Caribbean, Switzerland and Belgium comprised 3.4%, 3.2% and 3.5% of our revenues. Our sales and marketing efforts are directed by 14 experienced senior sales executives located in various regions across the United States, each with business development responsibility for the gaming establishments in those regions. These senior sales executives target all levels of gaming establishment personnel, including senior executives, finance professionals, marketing staff and cashiers, and seek to educate them on the benefits of our cash access products and services. The senior sales executives are supported by 25 field account managers, who provide on site customer service to most of our customers in the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, the Caribbean, Switzerland and Belgium. These field account managers reside in the vicinity of the specific gaming establishments that they support to ensure that they respond to the customer service needs of those gaming establishments. We also have joint sales efforts with a number of strategic partners, including NRT, Western Money Systems and Hibernia National Bank, which allow us to market our cash access services to gaming establishments through channels other than our direct sales force. 10 Table of Contents Competition We compete with third-party providers of cash access services, such as Game Financial Corporation, a subsidiary of Fidelity National Information Services Inc. operating as GameCash; Global Payments Inc. operating as Cash & Win; and Cash Systems, Inc. We compete with financial institutions, such as U.S. Bancorp and other regional and local banks that operate ATM machines on the premises of gaming establishments. In some cases, other third-party providers of cash access services and financial institutions have pre-existing relationships with potential customers that we must overcome to enter into contracts with new customers. Some of these other third-party providers and financial institutions have also established cooperative relationships with each other to expand their service offerings. We face potential competition from gaming establishments that may choose to operate their own in-house cash access systems rather than outsource to us. In the past, some gaming establishments have operated their own in-house cash access systems. We believe that almost all gaming establishments, however, outsource their cash access service to third-party providers because providing these services is not a core competency of gaming establishment operators, and because gaming establishment operators are unable to achieve the same scale that can be obtained by third-party providers that deploy cash access services across multiple gaming establishments. We may in the future also face competition from traditional transaction processors, such as First Data Corporation, that may choose to enter the gaming patron cash access services market. In connection with our redemption of First Data Corporation’s interest in us, First Data Corporation agreed not to compete with us prior to March 10, 2007. This agreement not to compete, however, is limited to the United States and Canada and is subject to a number of exceptions. Given its familiarity with our business, operations and industry as a result of being our majority owner from inception until March 10, 2004, First Data Corporation could be a significant competitive threat upon the expiration of this covenant not to compete. In addition, we may in the future face potential competition from new entrants into the market for cash access products and related services. Some of these potential competitors may have a number of significant advantages over us, including greater name recognition and marketing power, longer operating histories, pre-existing relationships with current or potential customers and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources and access to capital which allow them to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities. Regulation Various aspects of our business are subject to gaming regulation and financial services regulation. Depending on the nature of the noncompliance, our failure to comply with these regulations may result in the suspension or revocation of any license or registration at issue, as well as the imposition of civil fines and criminal penalties. Gaming Regulation We are subject to a variety of gaming and other regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. As a general matter, we are regulated by gaming commissions or similar authorities at the state or tribal level, such as the New Jersey Casino Control Commission and New Jersey Division of Gaming Enforcement. In some jurisdictions, such as Nevada, we are considered a supplier of “associated equipment” and could be required by the regulatory authorities, in their discretion, to file a license application. In such event, any of our officers, directors or beneficial owners of our securities could be required to apply for a license or a finding of suitability. To date, we have not been required to file such an application. Most of the jurisdictions in which we operate distinguish between gaming-related suppliers and vendors, such as manufacturers of slot machine or other gaming devices, and non-gaming suppliers and vendors, such as food and beverage purveyors, construction contractors and laundry and linen suppliers. In these jurisdictions, we are typically characterized as a non-gaming supplier or vendor and we must obtain a non-gaming supplier’s or vendor’s license, qualification or approval. The licensure, qualification and approval requirements and the regulations imposed on non-gaming suppliers and vendors are generally less stringent than for gaming-related suppliers and vendors, and as such, we are often subject to a lesser degree of regulation than our customers that directly engage in gaming activities. However, some of the jurisdictions in which we do business do not distinguish between gaming-related and non-gaming related suppliers and vendors, and other jurisdictions categorize our services and/or products as gaming related, and we are subject to the same stringent 11 Table of Contents licensing, qualification or approval requirements and regulations that are imposed upon vendors and suppliers that would be characterized as gaming-related in other jurisdictions. Most state and many tribal gaming regulators require us to obtain and maintain a permit or license to provide our services to gaming establishments. The process of obtaining such permits or licenses often involves substantial disclosure of information about us, our officers, directors and beneficial owners of our securities, and involves a determination by the regulators as to our suitability as a supplier or vendor to gaming establishments. The expansion of our business or the introduction of new cash access products or services may result in us being characterized as a gaming-related supplier or vendor in jurisdictions in which we are now a non-gaming related supplier or vendor. Our EDITH and TODD cashless gaming products, for example, interact with a gaming establishment’s slot system and operate in close physical proximity to slot machines, and are therefore much more closely connected to gaming activity than our other products and services that provide access to cash independent of any gaming equipment. These differences may result in a regulatory characterization of us as a gaming-related supplier or vendor, which would subject us to an increased regulatory burden which could include, but is not limited to: requiring the licensure or finding of suitability of any of our officers, directors, key employees or beneficial owners of our securities; the termination or disassociation with such officer, director, key employee or beneficial owner of our securities that fails to file an application or to obtain a license or finding of suitability; the submission of detailed financial and operating reports; submission of reports of material loans, leases and financing; and, requiring regulatory approval of some commercial transactions such as the transfer or pledge of equity interests in the company. These regulatory burdens are imposed upon gaming-related suppliers or vendors on an ongoing basis. Gaming regulatory authorities have broad discretion and can require any beneficial holder of our securities, regardless of the number of shares of common stock or amount of debt securities owned, to file an application, be investigated, and be subject to a determination of suitability. If the beneficial holder of our securities who must be found suitable is a corporation, partnership, or trust, such entity must submit detailed business and financial information including a list of its officers, directors, partners and beneficial owners. Further disclosure by those officers, directors, partners and beneficial owners may be required. Under some circumstances and in some jurisdictions, an institutional investor, as defined in the applicable gaming regulations, that acquires a specified amount of our securities may apply to the regulatory authority for a waiver of these licensure, qualification or finding of suitability requirements, provided the institutional investor holds the voting securities for investment purposes only. An institutional investor will not be deemed to hold voting securities for investment purposes unless the securities were acquired and are held in the ordinary course of its business. The changes in our ownership, management and corporate structure that resulted from the recapitalizations of our ownership in 2004 and our conversion from a limited liability company to a corporation in 2004, required us to notify many of the state and tribal gaming regulators under whose jurisdiction we operate. In many cases, those regulators have asked us for further information and explanation of those changes. To date, we have satisfied many of these inquiries, and are continuing to cooperate with those that are ongoing. Given the magnitude of the changes in our ownership that resulted from the recapitalizations, we were required to re-apply for new permits or licenses in some jurisdictions, but were not required to discontinue our operations during the period of re-application. In 2005 we notified many of the state and tribal gaming regulators under whose jurisdictions we operate of our initial public offering of common stock, which required further disclosures or re-applications for new permits or licenses, none of which required us to discontinue our operations in any such jurisdictions. In some jurisdictions we are in the process of obtaining licenses and have yet to receive final approval of such licenses from the applicable regulatory authority. In these jurisdictions, we operate under temporary licenses or without a license. We may not be issued a license in these jurisdictions. Financial Services Regulation Anti-Money Laundering. The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 and its implementing federal regulations require us to establish and maintain an anti-money laundering program. Our anti-money laundering program includes: (1) internal policies, procedures, and controls designated to identify and report money laundering; (2) a designated compliance officer; (3) an ongoing employee training program; and (4) an independent audit function to test the program. 12 Table of Contents In addition, the cash access services that we provide are subject to recordkeeping and reporting obligations under the Bank Secrecy Act. Our gaming establishment customers, in situations where our cash access services are provided through gaming establishment cashier personnel, and we, in situations where we provide our cash access services directly to patrons through satellite cashiers or booths that we staff and operate, are required to file a SAR with the U.S. Treasury Department’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of any suspicious transaction relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. To be reportable, the transaction must meet criteria that are designed to identify the hiding or disguising of funds derived from illegal activities. Our gaming establishment customers, in situations where our cash access services are provided through gaming establishment cashier personnel, and we, in situations where we provide our cash access services directly to patrons through satellite cages or booths that we staff and operate, are required to file a CTR of each deposit, withdrawal, exchange of currency or other payment or transfer by, through, or to us which involves a transaction in currency of more than $10,000 in a single day. Our QCP Web product can identify transactions that give rise to reporting obligations. When we issue or sell drafts for currency in amounts between $3,000 and $10,000, we maintain a record of information about the purchaser, such as the purchaser’s address, Social Security Number and date of birth. Finally, we maintain a record of each extension of credit by us in an amount in excess of $10,000, including the name and address of the person to whom the extension of credit is made, the amount, the nature and purpose of the credit, and the date of the loan. Following the events of September 11, 2001, the United States and other governments have imposed and are considering a variety of new regulations focused on the detection and prevention of money laundering and money transmitting to or from terrorists and other criminals. Compliance with these new regulations may impact our business operations or increase our costs. Fund Transfers. Our POS debit card transactions and ATM services are subject to the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, which provides gaming patrons with rights including with respect to disputes relating to unauthorized charges, charges that list the wrong date or amount, charges for goods and services that are not accepted or delivered as agreed, math errors and charges for which a cardholder asks for an explanation or written proof of transaction along with a claimed error or request for clarification. We have implemented the necessary policies and procedures in order to comply with the regulatory requirements for fund transfers. Money Transmitter. Most states require a money transmitter license in order to issue the negotiable instruments that are used to complete credit card cash advance and POS debit card transactions. We do not hold any money transmitter licenses, but currently issue negotiable instruments as an agent of Integrated Payment Systems, Inc. and Integrated Payment Systems Canada Inc., each of whom holds money transmitter licenses. Our current contract with Integrated Payment Systems, Inc. and Integrated Payment Systems Canada Inc. expires on September 30, 2006. Our performance under this contract is guaranteed by Karim Maskatiya, one of our directors. We are currently working to obtain money transmitter licenses for our self, in which event we would become subject to state licensing requirements and regulations governing money transmitters. Credit Reporting. Our Central Credit gaming patron credit bureau services are subject to the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003, which provide patrons rights to access their Central Credit files, dispute information contained in their Central Credit files and add brief statements to their Central Credit files in the event disputes are not resolved by our investigation. We continue to implement policies and procedures as well as adapt our business practices in order to comply with these laws and regulations. In addition to federal regulation, our Central Credit gaming patron credit bureau services are subject to the state credit reporting regulations which impose similar requirements to the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003. Debt Collection. Although we currently outsource all debt collection efforts to a third party, we may engage in debt collection efforts for credit extended using our QuikCredit service and we may engage in efforts to collect on dishonored checks purchased by Central Credit pursuant to our check warranty services and chargeback. All such collection practices are subject to the Fair Debt Collections Practices Act, which generally prohibits unfair, deceptive or abusive debt collection practices, as well as consumer-debt-collection laws and regulation adopted by the various states. Privacy Regulations. Our collection of information from patrons who use our cash access services is subject to the financial information privacy protection provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and its implementing 13 Table of Contents federal regulations. We gather, as permitted by law, non-public, personally-identifiable financial information from patrons who use our cash access services, such as names, addresses, telephone numbers, bank and credit card account numbers, Social Security numbers and income, credit histories and transaction information. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires us to safeguard and protect the privacy of such non-public personal information. Also, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires us to make disclosures to patrons regarding our privacy and information sharing policies and give patrons the opportunity to prevent us from releasing information about them to unaffiliated third parties in certain situations. In this regard, we provide patrons with a privacy notice, an opportunity to review our privacy policy, and an opportunity to opt out of specified types of disclosures. In addition to the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act privacy regulations we are subject to state privacy regulations. State privacy regulations impose more stringent limitations on access and use of personal information. We continue to implement policies and programs as well as adapt our business practices in order to comply with state specific privacy laws and regulations. ATM Operations. Our ATM services are subject to applicable state banking regulations in each jurisdiction in which we operate ATMs. These regulations require, among other things, that we register with the state banking regulators as an operator of ATMs, that we provide gaming patrons with notices of the transaction fees assessed upon use of our ATMs, that our transaction fees do not exceed designated maximums, that we offer gaming patrons a means of resolving disputes with us, and that we comply with prescribed safety and security requirements. Check Cashing. In jurisdictions in which we serve as a check casher or agree to defer deposit of gaming patrons’ checks under our QuikCredit services, we are subject to the state licensing requirements and regulations governing check cashing activities. Generally, these regulations require us to obtain a license from the state’s banking regulators to operate as a check casher. Some states also impose restrictions on this activity such as restrictions on the amounts of service fees that may be imposed on the cashing of certain types of checks, requirements as to records that must be kept with respect to dishonored checks, and requirements as to the contents of receipts that must be delivered to gaming patrons at the time a check is cashed. Lending. In those states in which we are deemed to operate as a short-term consumer or payday lender as a result of our QuikCredit services, we are subject to the various state regulations governing the terms of the loans. Typically, the state regulations limit the amount that a lender or service provider may lend or provide and, in some cases, the number of loans or transactions that a lender or service provider may make to any customer at one time, restrict the amount of finance or service charges or fees that the lender or service provider may assess in connection with any loan or transaction. The lender or service provider must also comply with various consumer disclosure requirements, which are typically similar or equivalent to the Federal Truth in Lending Act and corresponding federal regulations, in connection with the loans or transactions. Network and Card Association Regulation. In addition to the governmental regulation described above, some of our services are also subject to rules promulgated by various payment networks, Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) networks and card associations. For example, we must comply with the Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standard and are in the process of complying with those practices and procedures required to obtain a successful report on compliance with the PCI Data Security Standard. Other Regulation When contracting with tribal owned or controlled gaming establishments, we become subject to tribal laws and regulations that may differ materially from the non-tribal laws and regulations under which we generally operate. In addition to tribal gaming regulations that may require us to provide disclosures or obtain licenses or permits to conduct our business on tribal lands, we may also become subject to tribal laws that govern our contracts. These tribal governing laws may not provide us with processes, procedures and remedies that enable us to enforce our rights as effectively and advantageously as the processes, procedures and remedies that would be afforded to us under non-tribal laws, or to enforce our rights at all, and may expose us to an increased risk of contract repudiation as compared to that inherent in dealing with non-tribal customers. Many tribal laws permit redress to a tribal adjudicatory body to resolve disputes; however, such redress is largely untested in our experience. We may be precluded from enforcing our rights against a tribal body under the legal doctrine of sovereign immunity. We are also subject to a variety of gaming and other laws and regulations in the United Kingdom, Canada, the Caribbean, Switzerland and Belgium, and we expect to become subject to gaming and other laws in the jurisdictions 14 Table of Contents into which we expand our operations. Our expansion into new markets is dependent upon the adoption of enabling legislation in new jurisdictions and our ability to comply with the regulatory regimes adopted by such jurisdictions. For example, our proposed entry into Macau SAR is subject to our receipt of approvals, licenses or waivers by or from the Macau Monetary Authority and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority. We may not receive such approvals, licenses or waivers in a timely manner or at all. If we do not receive such approvals, licenses or waivers we will not be able to undertake operations in Macau SAR. Similar difficulties in obtaining approvals, licenses or waivers from the monetary authorities of other jurisdictions, in addition to other potential regulatory issues that we have not yet ascertained, may arise in other international jurisdictions into which we wish to enter. As we develop new services and new products, we may become subject to additional federal and state regulations. For example, in the event that we form or acquire a bank or industrial loan company, we would become subject to a number of additional banking and financial institution regulations, which may include the Bank Holding Company Act. These additional regulations could substantially restrict the nature of the business in which we may engage and the nature of the businesses in which we may invest. If we launch a private label credit card, we may become subject to a number of laws, regulations and card association rules. In addition, changes in current laws or regulations and future laws or regulations may restrict our ability to continue our current methods or operations or expand our operations and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Employees As of December 31, 2005, we had 279 employees. We are not subject to any collective bargaining agreements and have never been subject to a work stoppage. We believe that we have maintained good relationships with our employees. Available Information Our Internet address is http://www.globalcashaccess.com. We make available free of charge in the “Investor Relations” portion of our website under “SEC Filings” our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks set forth below may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition to the risks set forth below, and the factors affecting specific business operations identified with the description of these operations elsewhere in this report, there may also be risks of which we are currently aware, or that we currently regard as immaterial based on the information available to us that later prove to be material. Risks Related to Our Business If we are unable to maintain our current customers on terms that are favorable to us, our business, financial condition and operating results may suffer a material adverse effect. We enter into contracts with our gaming establishment customers to provide our cash access products and related services. Most of our contracts have a term ranging from three to five years in duration and provide that we are the only provider of cash access products to these establishments during the term of the contract. However, some of our contracts are terminable upon 30 days advance notice and some of our contracts either become nonexclusive or terminable by our gaming establishment customers in the event that we fail to satisfy specific covenants set forth in the contracts, such as covenants related to our ongoing product development. We are typically required to renegotiate the terms of our customer contracts upon their expiration, and in some circumstances we may be forced to modify the terms of our contracts before they expire. When we have successfully renewed these contracts, these negotiations have in the past resulted in, and in the future may result in, financial and other terms that are less favorable to us than the terms of the expired contracts. In particular, we are often required to pay a higher 15 Table of Contents commission rate to a gaming establishment than we previously paid in order to renew the relationship. Assuming constant transaction volume, increases in commissions or other incentives paid to gaming establishments would reduce our operating results. We may not succeed in renewing these contracts when they expire, which would result in a complete loss of revenue from that customer, either for an extended period of time or forever. Our contracts are often global, in that they cover all of the gaming establishments of a particular operator wherever they are located around the world. So, the loss of a single contract often results in the loss of multiple gaming establishments. If we are required to pay higher commission rates or agree to other less favorable terms to retain our customers or we are not able to renew our relationships with our customers upon the expiration of our contracts, our business, financial condition and operating results would be harmed. Because of significant concentration among our top customers, the loss of a top customer could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. In 2005, our five largest customers, Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc., Boyd Gaming Corporation, Mandalay Resort Group, Station Casinos, Inc. and Mohegan Tribal Gaming, accounted for approximately 40.4% of our revenues. In June 2005, Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. acquired Caesars Entertainment, Inc. The combined entity would have accounted for 17.9% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005. The loss of, or a substantial decrease in revenues from, any one of our top customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Consolidation among operators of gaming establishments may also result in the loss of a top customer to the extent that customers of ours are acquired by our competitors’ customers. Competition in the market for cash access services is intense which could result in higher commissions or loss of customers to our competitors. The market for cash access products and related services is intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase and intensify in the future. We compete with other providers of cash access products and services such as Game Financial Corporation, a subsidiary of Fidelity National Information Services Inc. operating as GameCash; Global Payment Systems operating as Cash & Win; and Cash Systems, Inc. We compete with financial institutions such as U.S. Bancorp and other regional and local banks that operate ATM machines on the premises of gaming establishments. We face potential competition from gaming establishments that may choose to operate cash access systems on their own behalf rather than outsource to us. We may in the future also face competition from traditional transaction processors, such as First Data Corporation, that may choose to enter the gaming patron cash services market. In connection with our redemption of First Data Corporation’s interest in us, First Data Corporation agreed not to compete with us prior to March 10, 2007. This agreement not to compete, however, is limited to the United States and Canada and is subject to a number of exceptions. Given its familiarity with our specific industry and business and operations as a result of being our majority owner from inception until March 10, 2004, First Data Corporation could be a significant competitive threat upon the expiration of this covenant not to compete. In addition, we may in the future face potential competition from new entrants into the market for cash access products and related services. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significant advantages over us, including greater name recognition, longer operating histories, pre-existing relationships with current or potential customers, significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources and more ready access to capital which allow them to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities. In addition, some providers of cash access products and services to gaming establishments have established cooperative relationships with financial institutions in order to expand their service offerings. Other providers of cash access products and services to gaming establishments have in the past increased, and may in the future continue to increase, the commissions or other incentives they pay to gaming establishments in order to win those gaming establishments as customers and to gain market share. To the extent that competitive pressures force us to increase commissions or other incentives to establish or maintain relationships with gaming establishments, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Under our agreements with NRT and Western Money Systems, they are generally prohibited from providing their cash handling services on any device that provides cash access services of other providers. Upon the expiration 16 Table of Contents or termination of our agreements with NRT and Western Money Systems, we may face competition from other providers of cash access services to the extent that NRT or Western Money Systems establishes cooperative relationships with other cash access service providers. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property adequately, we may lose a valuable competitive advantage or be forced to incur costly litigation to protect our rights. Our success depends on developing and protecting our intellectual property. We have entered into license agreements with other parties for intellectual property that is critical to our business. We rely on the terms of these license agreements, as well as copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws to protect our intellectual property. We also rely on other confidentiality and contractual agreements and arrangements with our employees, affiliates, business partners and customers to establish and protect our intellectual property and similar proprietary rights. We hold two issued patents and have six patent applications pending. These patent applications may not become issued patents. If they do not become issued patents, our competitors would not be prevented from using these inventions. We have also entered into license agreements with other parties for the exclusive use of their technology and intellectual property rights in the gaming industry, such as our license to use portions of the software infrastructure upon which our systems operate from Infonox on the Web. We rely on these other parties to maintain and protect this technology and the related intellectual property rights. If our licensors fail to protect their intellectual property rights in material that we license and we are unable to protect such intellectual property rights, the value of our licenses may diminish significantly and our business could be significantly harmed. It is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without our authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights or intellectual property rights that we exclusively license. In addition, we may not be able to deter current and former employees, consultants, and other parties from breaching confidentiality agreements with us and misappropriating proprietary information from us or other parties. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property or our exclusively licensed rights, or if we are unable to continue to obtain or maintain licenses for proprietary technology from other parties, including in particular Infonox on the Web, it could have a material adverse effect on the value of our intellectual property, our reputation, our business and our operating results. We may have to rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights and contractual rights. For example, we are pursuing a patent infringement action against U.S. Bancorp, Fidelity National Information Services Inc. and Game Financial Corporation to discontinue what we believe to be their infringement of the rights arising under our patent to the “3-in-1 rollover” functionality. By pursuing this litigation, we are exposed to the risk that the defendants will attempt to invalidate the patent or otherwise limit its scope. If litigation that we initiate is unsuccessful, including the litigation described above, we may not be able to protect the value of our intellectual property and our business could be adversely affected. In addition, in the litigation we do initiate, the defendants may assert various counterclaims that may subject us to liability. In the litigation referred to above, the defendants have asserted various antitrust and unfair competition claims. In addition to losing the ability to protect our intellectual property, we may also be liable for damages. We may also face difficulty enforcing our rights in the QuikCash trademark because of the timing and sequence of some of the assignment and renewal actions relating to the trademark. In addition, we may face claims of infringement that could interfere with our ability to use technology or other intellectual property rights that are material to our business operations. In the event a claim of infringement against us is successful, we may be required to pay royalties to use technology or other intellectual property rights that we had been using or we may be required to enter into a license agreement and pay license fees, or we may be required to stop using the technology or other intellectual property rights that we had been using. We may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable time. Any litigation of this type, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to us and diversions of our resources. 17 Table of Contents We are subject to extensive rules and regulations of card associations, including MasterCard International, Visa International and Visa U.S.A., that are always subject to change, which may harm our business. In 2005, a substantial portion of our revenues were derived from transactions subject to the extensive rules and regulations of the leading card associations, Visa International and Visa U.S.A., or VISA, and MasterCard International, or MasterCard. From time to time, we receive correspondence from these card associations regarding our compliance with their rules and regulations. In the ordinary course of our business, we engage in discussions with the card associations, and the bank that sponsors us into the card associations, regarding our compliance with their rules and regulations. The rules and regulations do not expressly address some of the contexts and settings in which we process cash access transactions, or do so in a manner subject to varying interpretations. For example, neither of the major card associations has determined that our ability to process credit card cash advance transactions using biometric technology at an unmanned machine and without cashier involvement through our ACM complies with its regulations. One association has allowed us to conduct these transactions as long as we assume chargeback liability for any transaction in which we do not obtain a contemporaneous cardholder signature. To date, we have not seen increased chargebacks on these transactions. However, an increase in the level of chargebacks could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. The other association has allowed us to conduct a limited pilot test. As a result, we are currently not able to use this feature of our ACMs to process credit card cash advances or POS debit card transactions involving that card association at all of our locations. Therefore, patrons still must complete these transactions at the cashier, which is inconvenient to patrons and prevents gaming establishments from realizing potential cashier labor cost savings. As another example, in 2003, one of the major card associations informed our sponsoring bank that authorization requests originating from our systems needed to be encoded to identify our transactions as gambling transactions, even though our services do not directly involve any gambling activity. This resulted in a large number of card issuing banks declining all transactions initiated through our services. We resolved this issue by encoding the authorization requests with an alternative non-gambling indicator that the card association agreed was applicable. As another example, we must comply with the Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standard and are in the process of complying with those practices and procedures required to obtain a successful report on compliance with the PCI Data Security Standard. These examples only illustrate some of the ways in which the card association rules and regulations have affected us in the past or may affect us in the future; there are many other ways in which these rules and regulations may adversely affect us beyond the examples provided in this prospectus. The card associations’ rules and regulations are always subject to change, and the associations modify their rules and regulations from time to time. Our inability to anticipate changes in rules, regulations or the interpretation or application thereof may result in substantial disruption to our business. In the event that the card associations or our sponsoring bank determine that the manner in which we process certain types of card transactions is not in compliance with existing rules and regulations, or if the card associations adopt new rules or regulations that prohibit or restrict the manner in which we process certain types of card transactions, we may be forced to pay a fine, modify the manner in which we operate our business or stop processing certain types of cash access transactions altogether, any of which could have a material negative impact on our business and operating results. In both our credit card and POS debit card cash advance businesses, patrons are generally issued a negotiable instrument which is surrendered to the casino in exchange for cash. These are classified by the card associations as “quasi-cash” transactions, and these transactions are identified to the associations as such by the use of a specific Merchant Category Code (“MCC”) which the associations and the issuing banks use as one of the factors they consider in determining whether to authorize such transactions. We have introduced EDITH, a new product that dispenses a bar-coded slot ticket based on a POS debit authorization. It has not yet been determined whether the associations will deem the slot ticket a negotiable instrument or not. If they do not, we may be required to route such transactions using a different MCC code, and the use of a different MCC code may result in lower approval rates than we experience with quasi-cash transactions. If approval rates for EDITH transactions are lower than approval rates for quasi-cash transactions, casino patrons may be dissuaded from using EDITH, resulting in the failure of our EDITH product to gain commercial acceptance. 18 Table of Contents We also process transactions involving the use of the Discover Card and the American Express card. The rules and regulations of the proprietary credit card networks that service these cards present risks to us that are similar to those posed by the rules and regulations of VISA and MasterCard. If we launch our own credit card product as a part of the VISA or MasterCard card associations, we will become subject to additional rules and regulations of these card associations. Changes in interchange rates and other fees may affect our cost of revenues (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) and net income. We pay credit card associations fees for services they provide in settling transactions routed through their networks, called interchange fees. In addition, we pay fees to participate in various ATM or POS debit card networks as well as processing fees to process our transactions. The amounts of these interchange fees are fixed by the card associations and networks in their sole discretion, and are subject to increase at any time. VISA and MasterCard both increased applicable interchange fees in April 2005. Also, in 2004, VISA’s Interlink network, through which we process a substantial portion of our POS debit card transactions, materially increased the interchange rates for those transactions. Since that date, the proportion of our POS debit card transactions that are routed on the Interlink network has increased, resulting in a decrease in profitability of our POS debit card business. Many of our contracts enable us to pass through increases in interchange or processing fees to our customers, but competitive pressures might prevent us from passing all or some of these fees through to our customers in the future. To the extent that we are unable to pass through to our customers all or any portion of any increase in interchange or processing fees, our cost of revenues (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) would increase and our net income would decrease, assuming no change in transaction volumes. Any such decrease in net income could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We receive fees from the issuers of ATM cards that are used in our ATM machines, called reverse interchange fees. The amounts of these reverse interchange fees are fixed by electronic funds transfer networks, and are subject to decrease in their discretion at any time. Unlike credit card association interchange fees, our contracts do not enable us to pass through to our customers the amount of any decrease in reverse interchange fees. To the extent that reverse interchange fees are reduced, our net income would decrease, assuming no change in transaction volumes, which may result in a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our substantial indebtedness could materially adversely affect our operations and financial results and prevent us from obtaining additional financing, if necessary. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2005, we had total indebtedness of $321.4 million in principal amount (of which $152.8 million consisted of senior subordinated notes and $168.6 million consisted of senior secured debt). Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it: • makes it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to either our senior secured debt or our senior subordinated notes, which, if we fail to do, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt; • increases our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • requires us to dedicate a substantial portion (in the case of our senior secured debt, up to 75% of our excess cash flow, depending upon our total leverage ratio) of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts and other general corporate purposes; • limits our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • restricts our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our common stock; • places us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • prohibits us from acquiring businesses or technologies that would benefit our business; 19 Table of Contents • restricts our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates or create liens or guarantees; and • limits, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our other indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture for our senior subordinated notes contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that we may believe to be in our long-term best interests. These restrictions include, among other things, limits on our ability to make investments, pay dividends, incur debt, sell assets, or merge with or acquire another entity. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. In 2006, two matters may require us to get waivers or modifications of these covenants. First, we expect that our capital expenditures in 2006 will exceed the amounts allowed under the credit facilities due to capital expenditures we expect to incur in connection with commencing operations under one of our contracts. Second, as described more fully below, we may seek to obtain our own money transmitter licenses. These licenses may require us to provide letters of credit or surety bonds in excess of the amounts currently allowed under the credit facilities. We may address these risks by seeking modifications or waivers of our existing agreements, by refinancing those agreements, or both. If we are unable to get these matters waived, modified or refinanced, an event of default could occur which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. Our senior secured debt currently bears interest at a rate that is based on the London Interbank Offering Rate, or LIBOR, and is adjusted periodically to reflect changes in LIBOR. We are therefore exposed the risk of increased interest expense in the event of any increase in LIBOR. The substantial amount of our senior secured debt magnifies this risk. To service our indebtedness we will require a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate cash flow depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to generate cash flow from operations depends on general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Due to these factors, it is possible that our business will not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to pay our indebtedness as it matures and to fund our other liquidity needs. This would cause us to have to borrow money to meet these needs and future borrowing may not be available to us at all or in an amount sufficient to satisfy these needs. In such events, we will need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We could have to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expenses and capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity or debt financing or joint venture partners. We may not be able to effect any of these financing strategies on satisfactory terms, if at all. Our failure to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms would have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness. The terms of our senior secured debt require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which will reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts and other general corporate purposes. Because of our dependence on a few providers, or in some cases one provider, for some of the financial services we offer to patrons, the loss of a provider could have a material adverse effect on our business or our financial performance. We depend on a few providers, or in some cases one provider, for some of the financial services that we offer to patrons. Money order instruments. We currently rely on Integrated Payment Systems, Inc. and Integrated Payment Systems Canada Inc. to issue the negotiable instruments that are used to complete credit card cash advance and POS debit card transactions. Most states require a money transmitter license in order to issue the negotiable instruments that are used to complete credit card cash advance and POS debit card transactions. We do not hold any money transmitter licenses, but currently issue negotiable instruments as an agent of Integrated Payment Systems, Inc. and 20 Table of Contents Integrated Payment Systems Canada Inc., each of whom holds money transmitter licenses. Our current contract with Integrated Payment Systems, Inc. and Integrated Payment Systems Canada Inc. expires on September 30, 2006. We are currently working to obtain our own money transmitter licenses. Many of the regulatory authorities to which we have applied for money transmitter licenses require the posting of letters of credit or surety bonds to guaranty our obligations with respect to the negotiable instruments we may issue to gaming establishments to consummate credit card cash advance and POS debit card transactions. To post these letters of credit or surety bonds, we may need to obtain certain amendments or waivers of the terms of our senior secured credit facilities and we may need to partially secure our obligations under our senior subordinated notes. We may not be able to obtain our own money transmitter licenses. If we are unable to obtain such licenses, we may be unable to complete credit card cash advance and POS debit card transactions, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Check warranty services. We rely on TRS Recovery Services, Inc. (formerly known as TeleCheck Recovery Services, Inc.), or TeleCheck, to provide many of the check warranty services that our gaming establishment customers use when cashing patron checks. Unless extended pursuant to its terms, our contract with TeleCheck expires on March 31, 2007 and we are currently negotiating the terms of a new contract with TeleCheck. Unless we and TeleCheck mutually agree to a new contract, we will need to make alternative arrangements for check warranty services. We may not be able to make such alternative arrangements on terms that are as favorable to us as the terms of our contract with TeleCheck, or on any terms at all. In addition, our Central Credit check warranty service, as currently deployed, uses risk analytics provided by third-party providers. Authorizations and Settlement. We rely on USA Payments and USA Payment Systems, each of which is affiliated with M&C International, to obtain authorizations for credit card cash advances, POS debit card transactions, ATM cash withdrawal transactions and to settle some of these transactions. Card association sponsorship. We rely on Bank of America Merchant Services, which is affiliated with Bank of America Corporation, for sponsorship into the Visa U.S.A. and MasterCard card associations for domestic transactions at no cost to us. We also rely on a foreign bank in each foreign jurisdiction in which we operate to process transactions conducted in these jurisdictions through the Visa International and MasterCard card associations. ATM cash supply. We rely on Bank of America, N.A., which is affiliated with Bank of America Strategic Investments Corporation, to supply cash for substantially all of our ATMs. Software development and system support. We generally rely on Infonox on the Web, which is under common control with M&C International, for software development and system support. In addition, we rely on NRT for software development and system support related to 3-in-1 Enabled QuickJack Plus devices. Product Development. We rely on our joint venture partner and strategic partners for some of our product development. For example, we are developing cashless gaming products through QuikPlay, our joint venture with IGT. With our strategic partners NRT and Western Money Systems, we have jointly developed and are marketing self-service slot ticket and player point redemption kiosks that incorporate our cash access services. These activities have risks resulting from unproven combinations of disparate products and services, reduced flexibility in making design changes in response to market changes, reduced control over product completion schedules and the risk of disputes with our joint venture partners and strategic partners. In addition, if our cashless gaming products are unsuccessful, we could lose our entire investment in QuikPlay. Money transfers. We rely on Western Union Financial Services, Inc. to facilitate money transfers. Our contracts with these providers are for varying terms and provide early termination rights in the event of our breach of or the occurrence of an event of default under these contracts. Replacing any of these or other products and services we obtain from third parties could be materially disruptive to our operations. We may not be able to enter into contracts or arrangements with alternate providers on terms and conditions as beneficial to us as the contracts or arrangements with our current providers, or at all. A change in our business relationships with any of these third-party providers or the loss of their services or failed execution on their part could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. 21 Table of Contents Certain providers upon whom we are dependent are under common control with M&C International, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on services provided by USA Payments, USA Payment Systems and Infonox on the Web, each of which is affiliated with M&C International, to provide many of the financial services that we offer to patrons. The interests of M&C International or its principals may not coincide with the interests of the holders of our common stock and such principals may take action that benefits themselves or these entities to our detriment. For example, M&C International’s principals could cause any of these entities to take actions that impair the ability of these entities to provide us with the license or services they provide today or that reduce the importance of us to them in the future. M&C International’s principals could dispose of their interests in these entities at any time and the successor owner or owners of such interests may not cause such entities to treat us with the same importance as they treat us today. The loss of the license or any loss of the services of these entities could adversely impact our business. During 2005, we incurred costs and expenses from USA Payments, USA Payment Systems and Infonox on the Web of an aggregate of $5.6 million. Our business depends on our ability to introduce new, commercially viable products and services in a timely manner. Our ability to maintain and grow our business will depend upon our ability to introduce successful new products and services in a timely manner. Our product development efforts are based upon a number of complex assumptions, including assumptions relating to gaming patron habits, changes in the popularity and prevalence of certain types of payment methods, anticipated transaction volumes, the costs and time required to bring new products and services to market, and the willingness and ability of both patrons and gaming establishment personnel to use new products and services and bear the economic costs of doing so. Our new products and services may not achieve market acceptance if any of our assumptions are wrong, or for other reasons. Our ability to introduce new products and services may also require regulatory approvals, which may significantly increase the costs associated with developing a new product or service and the time required to introduce a new product or service into the marketplace. In order to obtain these regulatory approvals we may need to modify our products and services which would increase our costs of development and may make our products or services less likely to achieve market acceptance. For example, the commercial success of our ticket-out debit device, or TODD, cashless gaming product, and our electronic debit interactive terminal housing, or EDITH, depends upon the continued viability of the cashless gaming market segment. A curtailment in the prevalence of cashless gaming opportunities as a result of legislative action, responsible gaming pressures or other factors beyond our control would threaten the commercial success of our cashless gaming products and services. TODD required extensive laboratory testing and certification and to date has only been approved for use in one casino, and EDITH has not yet been approved for use in any location. Our ability to grow our business through the introduction of new products and services depends in part on our joint development activities with third parties over whom we have little or no control. We have engaged in joint development projects with third parties in the past and we expect to continue doing so in the future. Joint development can magnify several risks for us, including the loss of control over development of aspects of the jointly developed products and disputes with our joint venture partners. We may seek to enter the consumer credit business through the issuance of our own credit card. We are seriously considering entering the consumer credit business through the issuance of our own credit card. We believe that there are a number of commercial opportunities available to us from issuing such a card, and we believe that the credit card issuing business could be a source of significant revenue and earnings. We believe that we will decide to enter the credit card business sometime in 2006. The issuance of credit cards is a different business from the processing of credit card transactions. As an issuer, we would be a provider of credit to the consumer. By contrast, we assume no consumer credit risk in our current business (other than chargeback risk, which we are exposed to in only an indirect way). As a card issuer, we would be required to make payment, net of interchange fees, to merchants for all goods and services purchased using the 22 Table of Contents card within a very short time of the transaction, and we would generally be able to recover those funds from the consumer no sooner than at the end of the current monthly statement cycle. There can be no assurance that we will be able to collect those funds from consumers. To the extent that we are unable to recover those funds we will record a loss, and if the loss is significant it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The issuance of credit cards involves assessing an applicant’s creditworthiness to determine his or her ability and inclination to repay any funds borrowed using the card. We have no experience in making such credit decisions. Although we will seek to hire employees with consumer credit underwriting experience, there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain qualified candidates. Even if we are successful in attracting such employees, there can be no assurance that they will make credit underwriting decisions that will result in tolerable credit losses. The rate of defaults in consumer credit is influenced by many factors, most of which are beyond our ability to control and some of which are beyond our ability to forecast. Changes in economic measures, including but not limited to unemployment rates, interest rates, exchange rates, consumer confidence, and inflation may affect cardholders’ ability and willingness to repay amounts borrowed using the card. The fact that a consumer is or has been a creditworthy borrower in the past does not guarantee that he or she will continue to be so in the future. As a credit card issuer, we may be subject to a variety of regulations which have not affected us in the past. While we expect to initially partner with a licensed banking institution for purposes of card issuance and receivables acceptance, such partnership may not materialize or may be discontinued at any time. If that were to happen, we would be required to become licensed in those jurisdictions in which we issue cards. There is no assurance that we will receive such licenses and, even if we do, we may be required to provide letters of credit or surety bonds to support our obligations in those markets and those letters of credit and surety bonds may reduce our overall borrowing capacity. We will also become subject to a variety of state and federal laws governing collection practices, and such collection regulations may impede or even prevent our ability to collect amounts owed to us. The credit card business is very complex from an operational perspective in that it involves the mailing of statements and the receipt and posting of credits for potentially millions of cardholders. We have no experience in the management of credit accounts. The credit card business also involves resolving inquires from and providing customer service to cardholders. While we have experience in doing these functions, it is on a scale much smaller than we would be exposed to in connection with a full-scale credit card initiative. We intend to partner with a company that has experience in managing large-scale credit card operations, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to conclude or sustain such a partnership. The credit card business may be perceived differently by investors from the business we currently perform and, even if we are successful in earning significant profits in the credit card business, investors may assign a lower valuation multiple to the credit card operations than to our historical business. This may result in a decrease in valuation of the overall entity, which may lead to a decline in the price of our common stock Our products and services are complex, depend on a myriad of complex networks and technologies and may be subject to software or hardware errors or failures that could lead to an increase in our costs, reduce our revenues or damage our reputation. Our products and services, and the networks and third-party services upon which our products and services are based, are complex and may contain undetected errors or may suffer unexpected failures. We are exposed to the risk of failure of our proprietary computer systems, many of which are deployed, operated, monitored and supported by Infonox on the Web, whom we do not control. We rely on Infonox on the Web to detect and respond to errors and failures in our proprietary computer systems. We rely on NRT for software development and system support of the 3-in-1 Enabled QuickJack Plus devices. We are exposed to the risk of failure of the computer systems that are owned, operated and managed by USA Payments Systems, whom we do not control. USA Payment Systems owns the data centers through which most of our transactions are processed, and we rely on USA Payment Systems to maintain the security and integrity of our transaction data, including backups thereof. We also are exposed to the risk of failure of card association and electronic funds transfer networks that are used to process and settle our transactions. These networks, that are owned and operated by others, are subject to planned and unplanned outages and may suffer degradations in performance during peak processing times. Finally, we are subject to the risk of 23 Table of Contents disruption to or failure of the telecommunications infrastructure upon which the interfaces among these systems are based. All of these systems and networks, upon which we rely to provide our services, are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, natural disasters and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of data, public release of confidential data or the inability to complete patron transactions. The occurrence of these errors or failures, disruptions or unauthorized access could adversely affect our sales to customers, diminish the use of our cash access products and services by patrons, cause us to incur significant repair costs, result in our liability to gaming establishments or their patrons, divert the attention of our development personnel from product development efforts, and cause us to lose credibility with current or prospective customers or patrons. We may not successfully enter new markets and therefore not achieve all of our strategic growth objectives. We intend to enter new and developing domestic markets. If and as these markets continue to develop, competition among providers of cash access products and services will intensify and we will have to expand our sales and marketing presence in these markets. In competitive bidding situations, we may not enjoy the advantage of being the incumbent provider of cash access products and services to gaming establishments in these new markets and developers and operators of gaming establishments in these new markets may have pre-existing relationships with our competitors. We may also face the uncertainty of compliance with new or developing regulatory regimes with which we are not currently familiar and oversight by regulators that are not familiar with us or our business. Each of these risks could materially impair our ability to successfully expand our operations into these new and developing domestic markets. We also intend to enter new and developing international markets, including markets in which we have not previously operated. Our strategy of entering foreign markets may expose us to political, economic and regulatory risks not faced by businesses that operate only in the United States. The legal and regulatory regimes of foreign markets and their ramifications on our business are less certain. Our international operations will be subject to a variety of risks, including different regulatory requirements, trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, higher rates of fraud, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, difficulty in enforcing contracts, political and economic instability and potentially adverse tax consequences. For example, our proposed entry into Macau SAR is subject to our receipt of approvals, licenses or waivers by or from the Macau Monetary Authority and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority. We may not receive such approvals, licenses or waivers in a timely manner or at all. If we do not receive such approvals, licenses or waivers we will not be able to undertake operations in Macau SAR. Similar difficulties in obtaining approvals, licenses or waivers from the monetary authorities of other jurisdictions, in addition to other potential regulatory issues that we have not yet ascertained, may arise in other international jurisdictions into which we wish to enter. In these new markets, our operations will rely on an infrastructure of financial services and telecommunications facilities that may not be sufficient to support our business needs, such as the authorization and settlement services that are required to implement electronic payment transactions and the telecommunications facilities that would enable us to reliably connect our networks to our products at gaming establishments in these new markets. These risks, among others, could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. In connection with our expansion into new international markets, we may forge strategic relationships with business partners to assist us. The success of our expansion into these markets therefore may depend in part upon the success of the business partners with whom we forge these strategic relationships. We have entered into an agreement with an overseas representative to assist us in the sales and marketing of our cash access services to gaming establishments in Eastern Europe and Russia, and we are attempting to form relationships with foreign banks to assist us in the processing of transactions originating from these markets. If we do not successfully form strategic relationships with the right business partners or if we are not able to overcome cultural differences or differences in business practices, our ability to penetrate these new international markets will suffer. We are also subject to the risk that the domestic or international markets that we are attempting to enter or expand into may not develop as quickly as anticipated, or at all. The development of new gaming markets is subject to political, social, regulatory and economic forces beyond our control. The expansion of gaming activities in new markets can be very controversial and may depend heavily on the support and sponsorship of local government. 24 Table of Contents Changes in government leadership, failure to obtain requisite voter support in referendums, failure of legislators to enact enabling legislation and limitations on the volume of gaming activity that is permitted in particular markets may inhibit the development of new markets. Our estimates of the potential future transaction volumes in new markets are based on a variety of assumptions which may prove to be inaccurate. To the extent that we overestimate the potential of a new market, incorrectly gauge the timing of the development of a new market, or fail to anticipate the differences between a new market and our existing markets, we may fail in our strategy of growing our business by expanding into new markets. Moreover, if we are unable to meet the needs of our existing customers as they enter markets that we do not currently serve, our relationships with these customers could be harmed. We may encounter difficulties managing our growth, which could adversely affect our operating results. We will need to effectively manage the expansion of our operations in order to execute our growth strategy of entering into new markets, expanding in existing markets and introducing new products and services. Growth will strain our existing resources. It is possible that our management, employees, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to accommodate future growth. In this situation, we will have to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. If we are unable to effectively manage our growth, our operations and financial results may be adversely affected. We depend on key personnel and they would be difficult to replace. We depend upon the ability and experience of two key members of senior management who have substantial experience with our operations and the gaming patron cash access industry. We are highly dependent on the involvement of Kirk Sanford, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Harry Hagerty, our Chief Financial Officer. Other than Messrs. Sanford and Hagerty and Kathryn Lever, our General Counsel, none of our executive officers have employment agreements with us. The loss of Mr. Sanford or Mr. Hagerty would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract, train and retain key managers involved in the development and marketing of our products and services to gaming establishments. We may need to increase the number of key managers as we further develop our products and services and as we enter new markets and expand in existing markets. Our ability to enter into contracts with gaming establishments depends in large part on the relationships that our key managers have formed with management-level personnel of gaming establishments. Competition for individuals with such relationships is intense, and we may not be successful in recruiting such personnel. In addition, we may not be able to retain such individuals as they may leave our company and go to work for our competitors. Our sales efforts would be particularly hampered by the defection of personnel with long-standing relationships with management-level personnel of gaming establishments. If we are unable to attract or retain key personnel, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. The loss of our sponsorship into the Visa U.S.A., Visa International and MasterCard card associations could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot provide cash access services involving VISA cards and MasterCard cards in the United States without sponsorship into the Visa U.S.A. and MasterCard card associations. Bank of America Merchant Services currently sponsors us into the card associations at no cost to us. Bank of America Merchant Services began this sponsorship of us into the card associations in 1998 when it held a significant ownership interest in us. When Bank of America Merchant Services sold its interest in us in 2000, Bank of America Merchant Services agreed to continue its sponsorship of us at no cost to us conditioned upon First Data Corporation’s continued indemnification of Bank of America Merchant Services for any losses it may suffer as a result of such sponsorship. When we redeemed First Data Corporation’s ownership interest in us in 2004, First Data Corporation agreed to continue to indemnify Bank of America Merchant Services for any losses it may suffer as a result of sponsoring us into the card associations through September 2010. First Data Corporation will have the right to terminate its indemnification obligations prior to September 2010 in the event that we breach indemnification obligations that we owe to First Data Corporation, in the event that we incur chargebacks in excess of specified levels, in the event that we are fined 25 Table of Contents in excess of specified amounts for violating card associations’ operating rules, or in the event that we amend the sponsorship agreement without First Data Corporation’s consent. In the event that First Data Corporation terminates its indemnification obligations and as a result we lose our sponsorship by Bank of America Merchant Services into the card associations, we would need to obtain sponsorship into the card associations through another member of the card associations that is capable of supporting our transaction volume. We would not be able to obtain such alternate sponsorship on terms as favorable to us as the terms of our current sponsorship by Bank of America Merchant Services, which is at no cost to us. We may not be able to obtain alternate sponsorship at all. Our inability to obtain alternate sponsorship on favorable terms or at all would have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We cannot provide cash access services involving VISA cards and MasterCard cards outside of the United States without a processing agreement with or sponsorship into the Visa International and MasterCard card associations by a bank in each foreign jurisdiction in which we conduct cash access transactions. We are currently a party to processing agreements or sponsored into these card associations by foreign banks in each of the foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct cash access transactions. In the event that any foreign bank that currently is a party to such processing agreement or sponsors us into these card associations terminates such processing agreement or its sponsorship of us, we would need to obtain a processing agreement or sponsorship into the card associations through another foreign bank that is capable of supporting our transaction volume in the relevant jurisdiction. For example, in early 2005 we were notified that Bank of America is not authorized to sponsor us in some Caribbean markets. We paid a $25,000 fine to one of the card associations and entered into an alternate processing arrangement. We may not be able to obtain alternate sponsorship or processing arrangements in any region on terms as favorable to us as the terms of our current sponsorship by or processing arrangements with foreign banks, or at all. Our inability to obtain alternate sponsorship or processing arrangements on favorable terms or at all could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. An unexpectedly high level of chargebacks, as the result of fraud or otherwise, could adversely affect our cash advance business. When patrons use our cash access services, we either dispense cash or produce a negotiable instrument that can be endorsed and exchanged for cash. If a completed cash access transaction is subsequently disputed and if we are unsuccessful in establishing the validity of the transaction, we may not be able to collect payment for such transaction and such transaction becomes a chargeback. One of the major credit card associations has allowed us to complete credit card cash advance and POS debit card transactions at our ACMs so long as we assume chargeback liability for any transaction in which we do not obtain a contemporaneous cardholder signature, which may result in increased chargeback liability. An increased level of chargebacks could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operation. Moreover, in the event that we incur chargebacks in excess of specified levels, First Data Corporation will have the right to terminate its indemnification obligations to Bank of America Merchant Services, and we could lose our no-cost sponsorship into the card associations. In addition, in the event that we incur chargebacks in excess of specified levels, we could be censured by the card associations by way of fines or otherwise. In certain foreign regions in which we operate, new card security features have been developed as a fraud deterrent. In the United Kingdom, for example, this feature — known as chip-and-pin — requires merchant terminals to be capable of obtaining an authorization through a chip-and-pin entry mode in addition to traditional magnetic stripe and keyed entry modes. Currently, with our regional sponsor in the United Kingdom, we are in the process of upgrading our point-of-sale terminals to accept this new technology. In the interim, we are exposed to potential additional chargeback risk on identified fraudulent transactions performed on a chip-and-pin enabled card for which we are unable to read the embedded microchip or accept the patron’s personal identification number. A material increase in market interest rates or changing regulations could adversely affect our ATM business. We obtain a supply of cash for our ATMs from Bank of America, N.A. Pursuant to our contract with Bank of America, N.A., we are obligated to pay a monthly fee that is based upon the amount of cash used to supply our 26 Table of Contents ATMs and a market interest rate. Assuming no change in the amount of cash used to supply our ATMs, an increase in market interest rates will result in an increase in the monthly fee that we must pay to obtain this supply of cash, thereby increasing our ATM operating costs. Any increase in the amount of cash required to supply our ATMs would magnify the impact of an increase in market interest rates. An increase in interest rates may result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. In 2005, we paid approximately $10.2 million in aggregate fees to Bank of America, N.A. for this supply of cash. Our ATM services are subject to the applicable state banking regulations in each jurisdiction in which we operate ATMs. Our ATM services may also be subject to local regulations relating to the imposition of daily limits on the amounts that may be withdrawn from ATM machines, the location of ATM machines and our ability to surcharge cardholders who use our ATM machines. These regulations may impose significant burdens on our ability to operate ATMs profitably in some locations, or at all. Moreover, because these regulations are subject to change, we may be forced to modify our ATM operations in a manner inconsistent with the assumptions upon which we relied in entering into contracts to provide ATM services at gaming establishments. An unexpected increase in check warranty expenses could adversely affect our check warranty business. We currently rely on TeleCheck to provide check warranty services to many of our customers. When a gaming establishment obtains an authorization from TeleCheck pursuant to its check warranty service, TeleCheck warrants payment on the patron’s check. If the patron’s check is subsequently dishonored upon presentment for payment, TeleCheck purchases the dishonored check from the gaming establishment for its face amount. Pursuant to the terms of our contract with TeleCheck, we share a portion of the loss associated with these dishonored checks. Although this contract limits the percentage of the dishonored checks to which we are exposed, there is no limit on the aggregate dollar amount to which we are exposed, which is a function of the face amount of checks warranted. TeleCheck manages and mitigates these dishonored checks through the use of risk analytics and collection efforts, including the additional fees that it is entitled to collect from check writers of dishonored checks. During the year ending December 31, 2005, our warranty expenses with respect to TeleCheck’s check warranty service were $10.8 million. We have no control over TeleCheck’s decision to warrant payment on a particular check and we have limited visibility into TeleCheck’s collection activities. As a result, we may incur an unexpectedly high level of check warranty expenses at any time, and if we do, we may suffer a material adverse effect to our business or results of operation. As an alternative to TeleCheck’s check warranty service, we have developed our own Central Credit check warranty service that is based upon our Central Credit gaming patron credit bureau database, our proprietary patron transaction database, third-party risk analytics and actuarial assumptions. If these risk analytics or actuarial assumptions are ineffective, we may incur an unexpectedly high level of check warranty expenses which may have a material adverse effect on our business or operating results. We operate our business in regions subject to natural disasters, including hurricanes. We may suffer casualty losses as a result of a natural disaster, and any interruption to our business resulting from a natural disaster will adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We operate our business primarily through equipment, including Casino Cash Plus 3-in-1 ATM machines, ACMs and QuikCash kiosks, which we install on the premises of gaming establishments and that patrons use to access cash for gaming. Accordingly, a substantial portion of our physical assets are located in locations beyond our direct control, including areas of Louisiana and Mississippi that sustained major damage as a result of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Any losses or damage that we suffer may not be subject to coverage under our insurance policies. More generally, our business may also be adversely affected by any damage to or loss of equipment that we install at gaming establishments or the cash contained therein resulting from theft, vandalism, terrorism, flood, fire or any other natural disaster. In addition to these casualty losses, our business is exclusive to gaming establishments and is dependent on consumer demand for gaming. In the event of a natural disaster, the operations of gaming establishments could be negatively impacted or consumer demand for gaming could decline, or both, and as a result, our business could be disrupted. Accordingly, we anticipate that our revenues and results of operations in Louisiana and Mississippi will 27 Table of Contents be reduced in 2006 and perhaps in subsequent years from what we would otherwise have expected as a result of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Although we cannot predict the extent of any such reduction, any interruption to our business resulting from a natural disaster will adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We will be required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 beginning in 2006. Based on current laws and regulations, we will be required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”) in 2006. Section 404 requires us to assess and attest to the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting and requires our independent auditors to opine as to the adequacy of our assessment and internal controls over financial reporting. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 will result in us incurring significant expenses in 2006. Additionally, even with those expenditures, we may not receive an unqualified opinion from our independent auditors. If we were to receive a qualified report identifying a material weakness or weaknesses in our system of internal controls over financial reporting, we would be required to disclose such a finding. The disclosure of such a finding could have a material adverse impact on our business. To execute our growth strategy, we may make acquisitions or strategic investments, which involve numerous risks that we may not be able to address without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial problems. In order to obtain new customers in existing markets, expand our operations into new markets, or grow our business through the introduction of new products and services, we may consider acquiring additional businesses, technologies, products and intellectual property. For example, we may consider acquiring or forming a bank or other financial services company for the purpose of, among other things, issuing our own credit cards and/or using that bank’s vault cash to supply cash to our ATMs. We may also decide to issue our own credit card without acquiring a bank. Acquisitions and strategic investments involve various risks, such as: • difficulty integrating the technologies, operations and personnel from the acquired business; • overestimation of potential synergies or a delay in realizing those synergies; • disruption to our ongoing business, including the diversion of management’s attention and of resources from our principal business; • inability to obtain the desired financial and strategic benefits from the acquisition or investment; • loss of customers of an acquired business; • assumption of unanticipated liabilities; • loss of key employees of an acquired business; and • entering into new markets in which we have limited prior experience. Acquisitions and strategic investments could also result in substantial cash expenditures, the dilutive issuance of our equity securities, the incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities, and amortization expenses related to other intangible assets that could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Acquisitions and strategic investments may also be highly dependent upon the retention and performance of existing management and employees of acquired businesses for the day-to-day management and future operating results of these businesses. 28 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Industry Economic downturns, a decline in the popularity of gaming or changes in the demographic profile of gaming patrons could reduce the number of patrons that use our services or the amounts of cash that they access using our services. We provide our cash access products and related services exclusively to gaming establishments for the purpose of enabling their patrons to access cash. As a result, our business depends on consumer demand for gaming. Gaming is a discretionary leisure activity, and participation in discretionary leisure activities has in the past and may in the future decline during economic downturns because consumers have less disposable income. Therefore, during periods of economic contraction, our revenues may decrease while some of our costs remain fixed, resulting in decreased earnings. Gaming activity may also decline based on changes in consumer confidence related to general economic conditions or outlook, fears of war, future acts of terrorism, or other factors. A reduction in tourism could also result in a decline in gaming activity. Finally, a legislature or regulatory authority may prohibit gaming activities altogether in its jurisdiction. A decline in gaming activity as a result of these or any other factors would have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Changes in consumer preferences could also harm our business. Gaming competes with other leisure activities as a form of consumer entertainment and may lose popularity as new leisure activities arise or as other leisure activities become more popular. In addition, gaming in traditional gaming establishments competes with Internet-based gaming for gaming patrons, and due to regulatory concerns, we have elected not to participate in the Internet gaming market at this time. The popularity and acceptance of gaming is also influenced by the prevailing social mores and changes in social mores could result in reduced acceptance of gaming as a leisure activity. To the extent that the popularity of gaming in traditional gaming establishments declines as a result of either of these factors, the demand for our cash access services may decline and our business may be harmed. Aside from the general popularity of gaming, the demographic profile of gaming patrons changes over time. The gaming habits and use of cash access services varies with the demographic profile of gaming patrons. For example, a local patron may visit a gaming establishment regularly but limit his or her play to the amount of cash that he or she brings to the gaming establishment. In contrast, a vacationing gaming patron that visits the gaming establishment infrequently may play much larger amounts and have a greater need to use cash access services. To the extent that the demographic profile of gaming patrons in the markets we serve either narrows or migrates towards patrons who use cash access services less frequently or for lesser amounts of cash, the demand for our cash access services may decline and our business may be harmed. Changes in consumer willingness to pay a fee to access their funds could reduce the demand for our cash access products and services. Our business depends upon the willingness of patrons to pay a fee to access their own funds on the premises of a gaming establishment. In most retail environments, consumers typically do not pay an additional fee for using non-cash payment methods such as credit cards, POS debit cards or checks. In order to access cash in a gaming establishment, however, patrons must pay service charges to access their funds. Gaming patrons could bring more cash with them to gaming establishments, or access cash outside of gaming establishments without paying a fee for the convenience of not having to leave the gaming establishment. To the extent that gaming patrons become unwilling to pay these fees for convenience or lower cost cash access alternatives become available, the demand for cash access services within gaming establishments will decline and our business could suffer. The cash access industry is subject to change, and we must keep pace with the changes to successfully compete. The demand for our products and services is affected by new and evolving technology and industry standards. Cash access services are based on existing financial services and payment methods, which are also continually evolving. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully develop and introduce new cash access services based on emerging financial services and payment methods. Stored value cards, Internet-based payment methods and the use of portable consumer devices such as personal digital assistants and mobile 29 Table of Contents telephones are examples of evolving payment technologies that could impact our business. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully develop and introduce new cash access products and services and to enhance our existing products and services to respond to changes in technology and industry standards on a timely basis. The products or services that we choose to develop may not achieve market acceptance or obtain any necessary regulatory approval. In addition, alternative products, services or technologies may replace our products and services or render them obsolete. If we are unable to develop new products or services or enhance existing products or services in a timely and cost-effective manner in response to technological or market changes, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. The cash access industry also changes based on changing consumer preferences. Our failure to recognize or keep pace with changing preferences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. For example, we have observed a decline in the volume of check cashing at gaming establishments over time as patron familiarity and comfort with credit card cash advances, POS debit card transactions and ATM cash withdrawal transactions has increased. To the extent that we continue to rely on check warranty services for a substantial portion of our business, a continued decline in check cashing volume could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Growth of the gaming industry in any market is subject to political and regulatory developments that are difficult to anticipate. We expect a substantial portion of our future growth to result from the general expansion of the gaming industry. The expansion of gaming activities in new markets can be very controversial and may depend heavily on the support of national and local governments. Changes in government leadership, failure to obtain requisite voter support in referenda, failure of legislators to enact enabling legislation and limitations on the volume of gaming activity that is permitted in particular markets may prevent us from expanding our operations into new markets. A failure by the gaming industry to expand at the rate that we expect could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth rates, financial condition and operating results. The United Kingdom (“UK”) Gambling Act 2005 (the “Gambling Act”) has received Royal Assent and awaits an order of the UK Secretary of State entering it into force as law. As enacted, the Gambling Act could be interpreted to prohibit GCA’s provision of credit card cash advances and POS debit card transactions to patrons of casinos located in the United Kingdom as early as September 2007. We expect that there will be modifications to the Gambling Act before it is entered into force, and we, and our casino clients in the UK, intend to request modifications to the Gambling Act, or the promulgation of regulations thereunder, to provide, among other things, that services such as ours continue to be available in UK gambling establishments. However, it is possible that, despite our efforts, we may be prohibited from providing one or more of our services in UK casinos upon implementation of the Gambling Act. We are subject to extensive governmental gaming regulation, which may harm our business. We are subject to a variety of regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Most of the jurisdictions in which we operate distinguish between gaming-related suppliers and vendors, such as manufacturers of slot machine or other gaming devices, and non-gaming suppliers and vendors, such as food and beverage purveyors, construction contractors and laundry and linen suppliers. In these jurisdictions, we are generally characterized as a non-gaming supplier or vendor and we must obtain a non-gaming supplier’s or vendor’s license, qualification or approval. The obtaining of these licenses, qualifications or approvals and the regulations imposed on non-gaming suppliers and vendors are typically less stringent than for gaming-related suppliers and vendors. However, a few of the jurisdictions in which we do business do not distinguish between gaming-related and non-gaming related suppliers and vendors, and in those jurisdictions we currently are subject to the same stringent licensing, qualification and approval requirements and regulations that are imposed upon vendors and suppliers that would be characterized as gaming-related in other jurisdictions. Such requirements include licensure or finding of suitability for some of our officers, directors and beneficial owners of our securities. If regulatory authorities were to find any such officer, director or beneficial owner unsuitable, we would be required to sever our relationship with that person. Some public issuances of securities and other transactions by us also require the approval of regulatory authorities. 30 Table of Contents If we must obtain a gaming-related supplier’s or vendor’s license, qualification or approval because of the introduction of new products (such as products related to cashless gaming) or services or because of a change in the laws or regulations, or interpretation thereof, our business could be materially adversely affected. This increased regulation over our business could include, but is not limited to: requiring the licensure or finding of suitability in many jurisdictions of any officer, director, key employee or beneficial owner of our securities; the termination or disassociation with any officer, director, key employee or beneficial owner of our securities that fails to file an application or to obtain a license or finding of suitability; the submission of detailed financial and operating reports; submission of reports of material loans, leases and financing; and, requiring regulatory approval of some commercial transactions such as the transfer or pledge of equity interests in the company. Prior changes in our ownership, management and corporate structure, including the recapitalization of our ownership and our conversion from a limited liability company to a corporation in 2004, required us to notify many of the state and tribal gaming regulators under whose jurisdiction we operate. In many cases, those regulators have asked us for further information and explanation of these changes. To date, we have satisfied some of these inquiries, and are continuing to cooperate with those that are ongoing. Given the magnitude of the changes in our ownership that resulted from recapitalization, we were required to reapply for new permits or licenses in many jurisdictions but we were not required to discontinue our operation during the period of re-application. Any new gaming license or related approval that may be required in the future may not be granted, and our existing licenses may be revoked, suspended, limited or may not be renewed. In some jurisdictions we are in the process of obtaining licenses and have yet to receive final approval of such licenses from the applicable regulatory authority. In these jurisdictions, we operate under temporary licenses or without a license. We may not be issued a license in these jurisdictions. Regulatory authorities at the federal, state, local and tribal levels have broad powers with respect to the licensing of gaming-related activities and may revoke, suspend, condition or limit our licenses, impose substantial fines and take other actions against us or the gaming establishments that are our customers, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Any new gaming license or related approval that may be required in the future may not be granted, and our existing licenses may not be renewed or may be revoked, suspended or limited. If additional gaming regulations are adopted in a jurisdiction in which we operate, such regulations could impose restrictions or costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business. From time to time, various proposals are introduced in the legislatures of some of the jurisdictions in which we have existing or planned operations that, if enacted, could adversely affect the tax, regulatory, operational or other aspects of the gaming industry or cash access in the gaming industry. Legislation of this type may be enacted in the future. In addition, some of the new products and services that we may develop cannot be offered in the absence of regulatory approval of the product or service or licensing of us, or both. For example, our TODD cashless gaming product has to date only been approved for use at one casino and cannot be used at any other location until we receive approval from the appropriate authority in such additional location. These approvals could require that we and our officers, directors or ultimate beneficial owners obtain a license or be found suitable and that the product or service be approved after testing and review. We may fail to obtain any such approvals in the future. When contracting with tribal owned or controlled gaming establishments, we become subject to tribal laws and regulations that may differ materially from the non-tribal laws and regulations under which we generally operate. In addition to tribal gaming regulations that may require us to provide disclosures or obtain licenses or permits to conduct our business on tribal lands, we may also become subject to tribal laws that govern our contracts. These tribal governing laws may not provide us with processes, procedures and remedies that enable us to enforce our rights as effectively and advantageously as the processes, procedures and remedies that would be afforded to us under non-tribal laws, or to enforce our rights at all. Many tribal laws permit redress to a tribal adjudicatory body to resolve disputes; however, such redress is largely untested in our experience. We may be precluded from enforcing our rights against a tribal body under the legal doctrine of sovereign immunity. A change in tribal laws and regulations or our inability to obtain required licenses or licenses to operate on tribal lands or enforce our contract rights under tribal law could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 31 Table of Contents Many of the financial services that we provide are subject to extensive rules and regulations, which may harm our business. Our Central Credit gaming patron credit bureau services are subject to the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 and similar state laws. Our QuikCredit service and TeleCheck’s and our collection practices in connection with dishonored checks with respect to which TeleCheck or Central Credit has issued authorizations pursuant to TeleCheck’s or Central Credit’s check warranty service, are subject to the Fair Debt Collections Practices Act and applicable state laws relating to debt collection. All of our cash access services and patron marketing services are subject to the privacy provisions of state and federal law, including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. Our POS debit card transactions and ATM withdrawal services are subject to the Electronic Fund Transfer Act. Our ATM services are subject to the applicable state banking regulations in each jurisdiction in which we operate ATMs. Our ATM services may also be subject to local regulations relating to the imposition of daily limits on the amounts that may be withdrawn from ATM machines, the location of ATM machines and our ability to surcharge cardholders who use our ATM machines. The cash access services we provide are subject to recordkeeping and reporting obligations under the Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001. In most gaming establishments, our cash access services are provided through gaming establishment cashier personnel, in which case the gaming establishment is required to file Currency Transaction Reports, or CTRs, or Suspicious Activity Reports, or SARs. In a limited number of gaming establishments, we provide our cash access services directly to patrons at satellite cashiers or booths that we staff and operate, in which case we are required to file CTRs or SARs on a timely basis. If we fail to file these CTRs or SARs on a timely basis or if we are found to be noncompliant in any way with these laws, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties. In jurisdictions in which we serve as a check casher or offer our QuikCredit service, we are subject to the applicable state licensing requirements and regulations governing check cashing activities and deferred deposit service providers. See “Business — Regulation.” In addition, our relationship with Integrated Payment Systems, Inc. and Integrated Payment Systems Canada Inc. expires on September 30, 2006, and we are in the process of obtaining money transmitter licenses in many states, which will cause us to become subject to state licensing requirements and regulations governing money transmitters. In the event that any regulatory authority determines that the manner in which we provide cash access services, patron marketing services or gaming patron credit bureau services is not in compliance with existing rules and regulations, or the regulatory authorities adopt new rules or regulations that prohibit or restrict the manner in which we provide cash access services, patron marketing services or gaming patron credit bureau services, we may be forced to modify the manner in which we operate, or stop processing certain types of cash access transactions or providing patron marketing services or gaming patron credit bureau services altogether. We may also be required to pay substantial penalties and fines if we fail to comply with applicable rules and regulations. For example, if we fail to file CTRs or SARs on a timely basis or if we are found to be noncompliant in any way with either the Bank Secrecy Act or the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties. In addition, our failure to comply with applicable rules and regulations could subject us to private litigation. Any such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Following the events of September 11, 2001, the United States and other governments have imposed and are considering a variety of new regulations focused on the detection and prevention of money laundering and money transmitting to or from terrorists and other criminals. Compliance with these new regulations may impact our business operations or increase our costs. As we develop new products and services, we may become subject to additional regulations. For example, in the event that we form or acquire a bank or industrial loan company, we would become subject to a number of additional banking and financial institution regulations, which may include the Bank Holding Company Act. These additional regulations could substantially restrict the nature of the business in which we may engage and the nature of the businesses in which we may invest. If we launch a private label credit card, we may become subject to a number of laws, regulations and card association rules. In addition, changes in current laws or regulations and future laws or regulations may restrict our ability to continue our current methods or operation or expand our operations and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 32 Table of Contents Finally, the Gambling Act has received Royal Assent and awaits an order of the UK Secretary of State entering it into force as law. As enacted, the Gambling Act could be interpreted to prohibit GCA’s provision of credit card cash advances and POS debit card transactions to patrons of casinos located in the United Kingdom as early as September 2007. We expect that there will be modifications to the Gambling Act before it is entered into force, and we, and our casino clients in the UK, intend to request modifications to the Gambling Act, or the promulgation of regulations thereunder, to provide, among other things, that services such as ours continue to be available in UK gambling establishments. However, it is possible that, despite our efforts, we may be prohibited from providing one or more of our services in UK casinos upon implementation of the Gambling Act. If consumer privacy laws change, or if we are required to change our business practices, the value of our patron marketing services may be hampered. Our patron marketing services depend on our ability to collect and use non-public personal information relating to patrons who use our products and services and the transactions they consummate using our services. We are required by applicable privacy legislation to safeguard and protect the privacy of such information, to make disclosures to patrons regarding our privacy and information sharing policies and, in some cases, to provide patrons an opportunity to “opt out” of the use of their information for certain purposes. The failure or circumvention of the means by which we safeguard and protect the privacy of information we gather may result in the dissemination of non-public personal information, which may cause us reputational harm and may expose us to liability to the affected individuals and regulatory enforcement proceedings or fines. Regulators reviewing our policies and practices may require us to modify our practices in a material or immaterial manner or impose fines or other penalties if they believe that our policies and practices do not meet the necessary standard. To the extent that our patron marketing services have in the past failed or now or in the future fail to comply with applicable law, our privacy policies or the notices that we provide to patrons, we may become subject to actions by a regulatory authority or patrons which cause us to pay monetary penalties or require us to modify the manner in which we provide patron marketing services. To the extent that patrons exercise their right to “opt out,” our ability to leverage existing and future databases of information would be curtailed. Consumer and data privacy laws are evolving, and due to recent high profile thefts and losses of sensitive consumer information from protected databases, we anticipate that such laws will be broadened in their scope and application, impose additional requirements and restrictions on gathering and using patron information or narrow the types of information that may be collected or used for marketing or other purposes or require patrons to “opt-in” to the use of their information for specific purposes, which will hamper the value of our patron marketing services. Responsible gaming pressures could result in a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Responsible gaming pressures can have a similar effect on us as governmental gaming regulation. Our ability to expand our business and introduce new products and services depends in part on the support of, or lack of opposition from, social responsibility organizations that are dedicated to addressing problem gaming. If we are unable to garner the support of responsible gaming organizations or if we face substantial opposition from responsible gaming organizations, we may face additional difficulties in sustaining our existing customer relationships, establishing new customer relationships, or obtaining required regulatory approvals for new products or services, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Lawsuits could be filed against gaming establishments and other gaming related product and service providers on behalf of problem gamblers. We may be named in such litigation because we provide patrons the ability to access their cash in gaming establishments. This litigation could develop as individual complaints or as mass tort or class action claims. We would vigorously defend ourselves in any such litigation, and this defense could result in substantial expense to us and distraction of our management. The outcome of any such litigation would be substantially uncertain, and it is possible that our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially affected by an unfavorable outcome against either us or our gaming establishment customers. 33 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Capital Structure Our common stock has only been publicly traded since September 22, 2005 and we expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially. There has only been a public market for our common stock since September 22, 2005. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including those described above under “— Risks Related to Our Business,” “— Risks Related to the Industry” and the following: • our failure to maintain our current customers, including because of consolidation in the gaming industry; • increases in commissions paid to gaming establishments as a result of competition; • increases in interchange rates or processing or other fees paid by us or decreases in reverse interchange rates; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our or our competitors’ revenue, operating results or growth rate; • our inability to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights; • any adverse results in litigation initiated by us or by other against us; • our inability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness as they become due or our inability to undertake actions that might otherwise benefit us based on the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture for our senior subordinated notes; • the loss of a significant supplier or strategic partner, or the failure of a significant supplier or strategic partner to provide the goods or services that we rely on them for; • our inability to introduce successful, new products and services in a timely manner or the introduction of new products or services by our competitors that reduce the demand for our products and services; • our failure to successfully enter new markets or the failure or new markets to develop in the time and manner that we anticipate; • announcements by our competitors of significant new contracts or contract renewals or of new products or services; • changes in general economic conditions, financial markets, the gaming industry or the payments processing industry; • the trading volume of our common stock; • sales of common stock or other actions by our current officers, directors and stockholders; • acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures involving us or our competitors; • future sales of our common stock or other securities; • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock after this offering or changes in financial estimates or recommendations by analysts; • our failure to meet the revenue, net income or earnings per share estimates of securities analysts or investors; • additions or departures of key personnel; • terrorist acts, theft, vandalism, fires, floods or other natural disasters; and • rumors or speculation as to any of the above which we may be unable to confirm or deny due to disclosure restrictions imposed on us by law or which we otherwise deem imprudent to comment upon. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular businesses. These broad market and 34 Table of Contents industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Securities class action litigation is often brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. The risk is especially acute for us because companies such as ours have experienced significant share price volatility in the past. As a result, we may in the future be a target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs defending the lawsuit and divert management’s attention and resources, and could seriously harm our business and negatively impact our stock price. M&C International and entities affiliated with Summit Partners possess significant voting power and may take actions that are not in the best interests of our other stockholders. M&C International and entities affiliated with Summit Partners own or control shares representing, in the aggregate, approximately 57% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly, M&C International and these entities affiliated with Summit Partners will exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval of our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combinations. M&C International’s and these entities’ ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company or discouraging others from making tender offers for our shares, which could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. These actions may be taken even if other stockholders oppose them and even if they are not in the interests of other stockholders. Conflicts of interest may arise because some of our directors are also principals or partners of our controlling stockholders. Two of our directors are principals of M&C International and two of our other directors are partners and members of various entities affiliated with Summit Partners. We depend on licenses and services provided by entities affiliated with M&C International to provide many of the financial services that we offer to patrons. Summit Partners and its affiliates may invest in entities that directly or indirectly compete with us or companies in which they currently invest may begin competing with us. As a result of these relationships, when conflicts between the interests of M&C International or Summit Partners, on the one hand, and the interests of our other stockholders, on the other hand, arise, these directors may not be disinterested. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent transactions that many stockholders may favor. Some provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying, discouraging, or preventing a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable or a change in our management or our Board of Directors. These provisions: • divide our board of directors into three separate classes serving staggered three-year terms, which will have the effect of requiring at least two annual stockholder meetings instead of one, to replace a majority of our directors, which could have the effect of delaying of preventing a change in our control or management; • provide that special meetings of stockholders can only be called by our Board of Directors, chairman of the board or chief executive officer. In addition, the business permitted to be conducted at any special meeting of stockholders is limited to the business specified in the notice of such meeting to the stockholders; • provide for an advance notice procedure with regard to business to be brought before a meeting of stockholders which may delay or preclude stockholders from bringing matters before a meeting of stockholders or from making nominations for directors at a meeting of stockholders, which could delay or deter takeover attempts or changes in management; • eliminate the right of stockholders to act by written consent so that all stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called meeting; • provide that directors may only be removed for cause with the approval of stockholders holding a majority of our outstanding voting stock; 35 Table of Contents • provide that vacancies on our Board of Directors may be filled by a majority, although less than a quorum, of directors in office and that our Board of Directors may fix the number of directors by resolution; • allow our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock and that otherwise could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights and the right to approve or not to approve an acquisition or other change in control, of the holders of common stock, without any further vote or action by the stockholders; and • do not provide for cumulative voting for our directors, which may make it more difficult for stockholders owning less than a majority of our stock to elect any directors to our Board of Directors. In addition, we are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which provides, subject to enumerated exceptions, that if a person acquires 15% or more of our voting stock, the person is an “interested stockholder” and may not engage in “business combinations” with us for a period of three years from the time the person acquired 15% or more of our voting stock. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive you of the opportunity to sell your shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a premium could reduce the price of our common stock. If we fail to attract or retain independent directors, we may face unfavorable public disclosure, a halt in the trading of our common stock and delisting from the New York Stock Exchange. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules and regulations of the New York Stock Exchange, we are required to establish and maintain a board of directors consisting of a majority of independent directors and an audit committee consisting entirely of independent directors. A majority of our directors satisfy the applicable independence requirements, but the loss of any one independent director would result in less than a majority of our directors being independent. All but one of the members of our audit committee satisfy the applicable independence requirements, and we currently rely on an exemption for newly public companies that requires all of the members of our audit committee to satisfy the applicable independence requirements by the first anniversary of our initial public offering, which will be September 2006. We are currently looking for an individual that satisfies the applicable independence requirements to join our board of directors and audit committee. If we fail to maintain a board of directors consisting of a majority of independent directors or if we fail to attract an additional director that satisfies the applicable independence requirements, we will fail to comply with the corporate governance listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, which we would be required to publicly disclose, which may in turn cause a reduction in the trading price of our common stock. In addition, our failure to comply with these corporate governance listing requirements may result in a halt in the trading of our common stock and the delisting of our common stock from the New York Stock Exchange, which may result in there being no public market for shares of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 