Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors should consider carefully the following factors that could cause White River’s operating results and financial condition to be materially adversely affected. New risks may emerge at any time, and White River cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect White River’s businesses or financial performance. 15 Coastal Credit Business White River shareholders are substantially dependent on the operations of Coastal Credit. White River is a holding company with no independent operations. Its profitability and ability to pay dividends to its shareholders are dependent on the operations of its subsidiaries, UAC and Coastal Credit. UAC’s activities consist of administering the receipt and distribution of the cash flows from the bankruptcy estate and carrying out the Plan of Reorganization. White River has purchased substantially all claims of creditors under UAC’s Plan of Reorganization. While related future cash flows from UAC may benefit White River, UAC does not presently expect to be profitable in the future. Thus, if Coastal Credit does not generate profits and make distributions to White River, the value of White River common stock will be diminished. White River’s profitability and future growth depend on Coastal Credit’s continued access to bank and subordinated debt financing. The profitability and growth of Coastal Credit’s business depends on its ability to access bank debt at competitive rates. Coastal Credit currently depends on an $80 million line of credit facility with a financial institution to finance its acquisition of contracts. This line of credit will increase to $100 million in July 2006. The maturity date for the line of credit is December 31, 2009 and is secured by substantially all of the contracts held by Coastal Credit. At December 31, 2005, Coastal Credit had $51.5 million outstanding under the line of credit and $28.5 million available for additional borrowing. Coastal also relies on subordinated debt as a principal part of its capital structure to provide long-term capital. As of December 31, 2005, the amount of outstanding subordinated debt was $7.7 million. The debentures are subject to a Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement with Coastal Credit’s principal lender. The debentures have maturity dates in March 2007. Coastal Credit will continue to depend on the availability of its line of credit, replacement subordinated financing, together with cash from operations, to finance its future operations. The availability of the credit facility depends, in part, on factors outside of Coastal Credit’s control, including regulatory capital treatment for unfunded bank lines of credit and the availability of bank loans in general. Therefore, this credit facility may not continue to be available beyond the current maturity date on reasonable terms or at all. If Coastal Credit were unable to renew or replace the credit facility or find alternative financing at reasonable rates, Coastal Credit could be unable to grow by acquiring contracts or could be forced to liquidate. The terms of Coastal Credit’s indebtedness impose significant restrictions on it. Coastal Credit’s existing outstanding indebtedness restricts its ability to, among other things: § encumber collateral; § allow change of ownership or control; § sell or transfer assets; § incur additional debt; § repay other debt; § pay dividends; § make certain investments or acquisitions; § repurchase or redeem capital stock; § engage in mergers or consolidations; and § engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates. 16 In addition, Coastal Credit’s line of credit facility requires it to comply with certain financial ratios and covenants. Coastal Credit’s ability to continue to meet these financial ratios could be affected by events beyond its control. Failure to meet any of these covenants, financial ratios or financial tests could result in an event of default under Coastal Credit’s credit facility. If an event of default occurs under its line of credit facility, the lender may take one or more of the following actions: § increase Coastal Credit’s borrowing costs; § restrict Coastal Credit’s ability to obtain additional borrowings under the facility; § accelerate all amounts outstanding under the facility; or § enforce its interests against collateral pledged under the facility. If Coastal Credit’s lender accelerates its debt payments, Coastal Credit’s assets may not be sufficient to fully repay the debt. Coastal Credit will require a significant amount of cash to service its indebtedness and meet its other liquidity needs. Coastal Credit’s ability to make payments on or to refinance its indebtedness and to fund its operations and planned capital expenditures depends on its future operating performance. Coastal Credit’s primary cash requirements include: § the funding of contract acquisitions; § interest payments under its line of credit facility and other indebtedness; § capital expenditures for technology and facilities; § ongoing operating expenses; § planned expansions by opening additional branch offices; and § any required tax payments. In addition, because Coastal Credit expects to continue to require substantial amounts of cash for the foreseeable future, Coastal Credit may seek additional debt financing. The type, timing and terms of the financing Coastal Credit selects will be dependent upon its cash needs, the availability of other financing sources and the prevailing conditions in the financial markets. These sources may not be available to Coastal Credit at any given time or the terms on which these sources may be available may not be favorable. Coastal Credit’s inability to obtain such additional financing could adversely impact its ability to grow. Coastal Credit’s substantial indebtedness could adversely affect its financial condition. Coastal Credit currently has a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness. In connection with White River’s acquisition of Coastal Credit, Coastal Credit agreed to guarantee an additional $15 million of White River indebtedness on a subordinated basis. Coastal Credit’s ability to make payments on, or to refinance, its indebtedness will depend on its future operating performance, including its ability to access additional debt or equity financing, which, to a certain extent, is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond Coastal Credit’s control. 17 Coastal Credit’s high level of indebtedness could have important consequences for its business. For example, Coastal Credit: § may be unable to satisfy its obligations under its outstanding indebtedness; § may find it more difficult to fund future needs for working capital, capital expenditures, or acquisitions; § may need to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash resources to the payments on its outstanding indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for operations and future business opportunities; and § may be more vulnerable to adverse general economic and industry conditions. Coastal Credit may incur substantial additional debt in the future. If new debt is added to Coastal Credit’s current levels, the risks described above could intensify. Coastal Credit may experience higher than normal delinquency and charge-off rates in its loan portfolios, which could reduce its profitability. Coastal Credit’s profitability depends, to a material extent, on the performance of contracts that it acquires. Historically, Coastal Credit has experienced higher delinquency and charge-off rates than traditional financial institutions because a large portion of its loans are to subprime borrowers, who may be unable to obtain financing from traditional sources due to their credit history. Although Coastal Credit attempts to mitigate these high credit risks with its underwriting standards, pricing and collection procedures, these standards and procedures may not offer adequate protection against the risk of default. In the event of a default, the collateral value of the financed vehicle usually does not cover the outstanding loan balance and costs of recovery. Higher than anticipated delinquencies and defaults on Coastal Credit’s contracts would reduce its profitability. Coastal Credit depends upon its relationships with its dealers. Coastal Credit’s business depends in large part upon its ability to establish and maintain relationships with automobile dealers who originate the contracts Coastal Credit acquires. Although Coastal Credit believes it has been successful in developing and maintaining such relationships, such relationships are not exclusive, and many of them are not longstanding. Coastal Credit may not be successful in maintaining such relationships or increasing the number of dealers with whom it does business. Coastal Credit’s existing dealer base may not continue to generate or refer to Coastal Credit a volume of contracts comparable to the volume of such contracts historically generated or referred by such dealers. Coastal Credit’s success depends upon its ability to implement its business strategy. Coastal Credit’s financial position depends on its management’s ability to execute its business strategy. Key factors involved in the execution of its business strategy include the use of effective pricing, achievement of the desired contract acquisition volume, risk management techniques and collection methods, continued investment in technology to support operating efficiency and continued access to significant funding and liquidity sources. Coastal Credit’s failure or inability to execute any element of its business strategy could materially adversely affect Coastal Credit’s financial condition. 18 Coastal Credit’s business is highly dependent upon general economic conditions. During periods of economic slowdown or recession, delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses generally increase. These periods also may be accompanied by decreased consumer demand for automobiles and declining values of automobiles securing outstanding loans, which weakens collateral coverage on Coastal Credit’s loans and increases the amount of a loss Coastal Credit would experience in the event of default. Significant increases in the inventory of used automobiles during periods of economic recession may also depress the prices at which repossessed automobiles are sold or delay the timing of these sales. Because Coastal Credit focuses on subprime borrowers, the actual rates of delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses on these loans are higher than those experienced in the general automobile finance industry and could be more significantly affected by a general economic downturn. In addition, during an economic slowdown or recession, Coastal Credit’s servicing and collection costs may increase without a corresponding increase in its income. While Coastal Credit seeks to manage the higher risk inherent in loans made to subprime borrowers through its underwriting criteria, pricing and collection methods, these criteria or methods may not afford adequate protection against these risks. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, defaults, repossessions or losses or increased servicing and collection costs could adversely affect Coastal Credit’s financial condition. Decreased auction proceeds resulting from the depressed prices at which used automobiles may be sold during periods of economic slowdown or recession will reduce Coastal Credit’s profitability. If Coastal Credit repossesses a vehicle securing a contract, Coastal Credit typically has it transported to an automobile auction for sale. Auction proceeds from the sale of repossessed vehicles and other recoveries are usually not sufficient to cover the outstanding balance of the contract, and the resulting deficiency is charged off. In addition, there is, on average, approximately a 45-day lapse between the time Coastal Credit repossesses a vehicle and the time it is sold at public auction. Furthermore, depressed wholesale prices for used automobiles may result from significant liquidations of rental or fleet inventories, and from increased volume of trade-ins due to promotional financing programs offered by new vehicle manufacturers. During periods of economic slowdown or recession, decreased auction proceeds resulting from the depressed prices at which used automobiles may be sold will result in Coastal Credit experiencing higher credit losses. An increase in market interest rates may reduce Coastal Credit’s profitability. Coastal Credit’s long-term profitability may be directly affected by the level of and fluctuations in interest rates. Sustained, significant increases in interest rates may adversely affect Coastal Credit’s liquidity and profitability by reducing the interest rate spread between the rate of interest Coastal Credit receives on its contracts and interest rates that Coastal Credit pays under its outstanding line of credit facility. As interest rates increase, the gross interest rate spread on new originations will generally decline since the rates charged on the contracts acquired from dealers generally are limited by statutory maximums and competitive market conditions restricting Coastal Credit’s opportunity to pass on increased interest costs. Coastal Credit’s growth depends upon its ability to retain and attract a sufficient number of qualified employees. To a large extent, Coastal Credit’s growth strategy depends on the opening of new offices that will focus primarily on acquiring contracts in markets Coastal Credit has not previously served. Future expansion of Coastal Credit’s office network depends upon its ability to attract and retain qualified and experienced office managers and the ability of such managers to develop relationships with dealers that serve those markets. Coastal Credit generally does not open new offices until it has located and hired a qualified and experienced individual to manage the office. Typically, this individual would be familiar with local market conditions and have existing relationships with dealers in the area to be served. Although Coastal Credit believes that it can attract and retain qualified and experienced personnel as Coastal Credit proceeds with planned expansion into new markets, Coastal Credit may not be successful in doing so. Competition to hire personnel possessing the skills and experience required by Coastal Credit could contribute to an increase in its employee turnover rate. High turnover or an inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on Coastal Credit’s origination, delinquency, default and net loss rates and, ultimately, its financial condition. 19 The loss of one of Coastal Credit’s key executives could have a material adverse effect on its business. Coastal Credit’s growth and development to date have been largely dependent upon the services of William E. McKnight, who established Coastal Credit and serves as its President. Coastal Credit does not maintain a key-man life insurance policy on Mr. McKnight. Although Coastal Credit believes that it has sufficient additional experienced management personnel to accommodate the loss of any key executive, the loss of services of Mr. McKnight could have a material adverse effect on Coastal Credit. Coastal Credit is subject to risks associated with litigation. As a consumer finance company, Coastal Credit is subject to various consumer claims and litigation seeking damages and statutory penalties, based upon, among other things: § usury laws; § disclosure inaccuracies; § wrongful repossession; § violations of bankruptcy stay provisions; § certificate of title disputes; § fraud; § breach of contract; and § discriminatory treatment of credit applicants. Some litigation against Coastal Credit could take the form of class action complaints by consumers. As the assignee of contracts originated by dealers, Coastal Credit may also be named as a co-defendant in lawsuits filed by consumers principally against dealers. The damages and penalties claimed by consumers in these types of actions can be substantial. The relief which may be requested by the plaintiffs varies but may include requests for compensatory, statutory and punitive damages. Coastal Credit may experience material financial losses in the future as a result of litigation and other legal proceedings. Coastal Credit is subject to many laws and governmental regulations, and any material violations of or changes in these laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on Coastal Credit’s financial condition and business operations. Coastal Credit’s financing operations are subject to regulation, supervision and licensing under various federal, state and local statutes and ordinances. Additionally, the procedures that Coastal Credit must follow in connection with the repossession of vehicles securing contracts are regulated by each of the states in which Coastal Credit does business. The various federal, state and local statutes, regulations and ordinances 20 applicable to Coastal Credit’s business govern, among other things: § licensing requirements; § requirements for maintenance of proper records; § payment of required fees to certain states; § maximum interest rates that may be charged on loans to finance new and used vehicles; § interest rates on loans to customers serving in the military; § debt collection practices; § proper disclosure to customers regarding financing terms; § privacy regarding certain customer data; and § collection of debts from loan customers who have filed bankruptcy. Coastal Credit believes that it maintains all material licenses and permits required for its current operations and is in substantial compliance with all applicable local, state and federal regulations. Coastal Credit’s failure, or failure by dealers who originate the contracts Coastal Credit acquires, to maintain all requisite licenses and permits, and to comply with other regulatory requirements, could result in consumers having rights of rescission and other remedies that could have a material adverse effect on Coastal Credit’s financial condition. Furthermore, any changes in applicable laws, rules and regulations may make Coastal Credit’s compliance therewith more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect its financial condition. Coastal Credit’s ability to pay cash distributions is restricted by its line of credit. While Coastal Credit is not restricted by its charter from making distributions, its line of credit restricts the payment of cash distributions without written approval from its lender. Coastal Credit’s ability to receive the necessary approval is largely dependent upon its portfolio performance, and Coastal Credit may not be able to obtain the necessary approvals in the future for distributions to White River that would enable White River to pay cash dividends to its shareholders. Coastal Credit operates in a competitive market. The subprime consumer-finance industry is highly competitive. There are numerous financial service companies that provide consumer credit in the markets served by Coastal Credit, including banks, credit unions, other consumer finance companies and captive finance companies owned by automobile manufacturers and retailers. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources than Coastal Credit. In addition, Coastal Credit’s competitors often provide financing on terms more favorable to automobile purchasers or dealers than Coastal Credit offers. Many of these competitors also have long-standing relationships with automobile dealerships and may offer dealerships or their customers other forms of financing, including dealer floor-plan financing and leasing, which Coastal Credit does not provide. Providers of subprime consumer financing have traditionally competed primarily on the basis of: § interest rates charged; § the quality of credit accepted; § the flexibility of loan terms offered; and § the quality of service provided. 21 Coastal Credit’s ability to compete effectively with other companies offering a similar financing arrangement depends on maintaining close relationships with dealers of new and used vehicles. Coastal Credit may not be able to compete successfully in this market or against these competitors. Coastal Credit has focused on a segment of the market composed of consumers who typically do not meet the more stringent credit requirements of traditional consumer financing sources and whose needs, as a result, have not been addressed consistently by such financing sources. If, however, other providers of consumer financing were to assert a significantly greater effort to penetrate Coastal Credit’s targeted market segment, Coastal Credit may have to reduce its interest rates and fees in order to maintain its market share. Any reduction in Coastal Credit’s interest rates or fees could have an adverse impact on its profitability. Coastal Credit may experience problems with its integrated computer systems or be unable to keep pace with developments in technology. Coastal Credit uses various technologies in its business, including telecommunication, data processing and integrated computer systems. Technology changes rapidly. Coastal Credit’s ability to compete successfully with other financing companies may depend on its ability to exploit technological changes. Coastal Credit may not be able to exploit technological changes, and any investment it makes may not make Coastal Credit more profitable. Coastal Credit uses integrated computer systems to respond to customer inquiries and to monitor the performance of its contract portfolios and the performance of individual customers under its contracts. Problems with the operation of Coastal Credit’s systems could adversely impact its ability to monitor its portfolios or collect amounts due under its contracts and direct loans, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition. UAC’s Business Our recovery of projected cash flows from UAC is dependent on the performance of UAC receivable portfolios. UAC's beneficial interest in Master Trust reflected on our balance sheet reflects the discounted value of projected cash flows that UAC expects to receive from its outstanding securitizations and non-recourse financings of its portfolios of auto finance receivables. White River, as owner of the substantial majority of UAC's notes and claims outstanding under the Plan of Reorganization, will become entitled to distribution of the substantial majority of these cash flows as they are realized by UAC. However, the realization of such projected cash flows is dependent upon the performance of the underlying auto receivable portfolios and the effective servicing of such receivables. In particular, if gross defaults, recoveries on defaulted receivables or prepayments on such receivables are less favorable than the rates projected by management, UAC's realization of such cash flows will be reduced or delayed relative to such projections. Such reduction may be material. Factors summarized above in relation to Coastal Credit's operations regarding the risk of default on auto finance contracts, susceptibility to adverse changes in economic conditions and the adverse effects declines in used car values may have upon receivable recoveries may also materially and adversely impact the performance of UAC's auto finance receivable portfolios. 22 Transfer Restrictions There are restrictions on transfer of shares of White River common stock that may delay or prevent takeover bids by third parties and may delay or frustrate any attempt by shareholders to replace or remove the current management. All shares of White River common stock are subject to certain transfer restrictions. The transfer restrictions on White River common stock are complex and directed toward preserving the value of UAC’s tax net operating loss carryforwards for the benefit of shareholders. The transfer restrictions will require any person attempting to acquire a significant interest in White River to negotiate with White River’s board of directors. The transfer restrictions also may make it more difficult to effect a merger or similar transaction perceived by shareholders to be favorable to White River by requiring any person seeking to enter into such a transaction with White River to negotiate with White River’s board of directors. Finally, the transfer restrictions may make it more difficult for shareholders to replace current management because no single shareholder may cast votes for more than 5% of White River’s outstanding shares of common stock, unless that shareholder held more than 5% of our common stock before the Share Exchange or the acquisition of the shares is otherwise approved by the board of directors. If the transfer restrictions are not effective in preventing an ownership change from occurring, our ability to use the NOLs will be severely limited. Although the transfer restrictions are authorized under Indiana law, we are not aware of any published court decisions enforcing similar transfer restrictions. Thus, a transfer could occur that would violate the transfer restrictions and White River might not be able to enforce the transfer restrictions. Even if a court did enforce the transfer restrictions in the case of such a transfer, the Internal Revenue Service might not agree that the transfer restrictions provide a sufficient remedy with respect to any ownership change resulting from the prohibited transfer. In either of these cases, despite the implementation of the transfer restrictions, an ownership change could occur that would severely limit White River’s ability to use the tax benefits associated with our NOLs. Beneficial Use of the NOLs The benefits of the NOLs are uncertain and could be reduced or lost if challenged by the Internal Revenue Service. Based on a current maximum federal corporate income tax rate of 35%, UAC’s NOLs could provide significant future tax savings benefits to UAC’s and White River’s consolidated group. However, the ability to use these tax benefits in future years will depend upon a number of factors, including the amount of White River’s otherwise consolidated taxable income and favorable interpretations and treatment from the Internal Revenue Service consistent with our interpretation of complex tax regulations. The Internal Revenue Service could challenge White River’s calculation of the amount of NOLs or White River’s determinations as to when or whether a prior change in ownership occurred for purposes of these tax regulations. Other provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit White River’s ability to carry forward the NOLs to offset taxable income in future years. If the Internal Revenue Service were successful with respect to any such challenge, the potential tax benefit of the NOLs to White River could be substantially reduced or lost. Concentration of Ownership Because ownership of White River’s common stock is concentrated, certain shareholders can exert significant influence over shareholders’ decisions. As of December 31, 2005, John M. Eggemeyer, III, the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of White River, by virtue of his relationship with Castle Creek and the Funds managed by Castle Creek, owned or controlled 19.1% of White River’s outstanding shares of common stock. Mr. Eggemeyer has significant influence on the outcome of shareholder votes, including votes concerning, among other things, the election of directors; the adoption or amendment of provisions in White River’s Articles of Incorporation; and the approval of other significant corporate transactions, including mergers and reorganizations. This level of concentrated ownership by a single entity may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in the management or voting control of White River. 23 Your ability to resell your shares may be limited. Following the reorganization transactions in 2005, shares of White River common stock began trading over-the-counter and reported under the symbol “WRVC” on the OTC Pink Sheets, a centralized quotation service operated by Pink Sheets, L.L.C. that collects and publishes market maker quotes for over-the-counter securities. These quotations represent bid and asked prices between dealers and do not include retail markup, markdown or commissions and may not represent actual transactions. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for White River’s common stock will develop or be sustained. Consequently, White River’s shareholders may not be able to trade in White River’s shares or otherwise liquidate their investment in the event of an emergency or at any time. An active trading market in White River’s shares may not be established. Furthermore, such market, if established, may not be sufficiently liquid to enable holders of shares of White River’s common stock to liquidate their investment at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 