ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, shareholders or prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors when evaluating DSW. If any of the events described below occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations and future growth prospects could be negatively affected. Risks Relating to Our Business We plan to open approximately ten stores in fiscal 2010 and are currently evaluating our strategy for fiscal 2011 and beyond, which could strain our resources and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Our continued and future growth largely depends on our ability to successfully open and operate new DSW stores on a profitable basis. During fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, we opened 9, 41 and 37 new DSW stores, respectively. We plan to open approximately ten stores in fiscal 2010 and are currently evaluating our strategy for fiscal 2011 and beyond. As of January 30, 2010, we have signed leases for an additional six stores opening in fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2011. During fiscal 2009, the average investment required to open a typical new DSW store was approximately $1.4 million. This continued expansion could place increased demands on our financial, managerial, operational and administrative resources. For example, our planned expansion will require us to increase investments in management information systems and distribution facilities. These increased demands and operating complexities could cause us to operate our business less efficiently, have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance and slow our growth. We may be unable to open all the stores contemplated by our growth strategy on a timely basis, and new stores we open may not be profitable or may have an adverse impact on the profitability of existing stores, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We plan to open approximately ten stores in fiscal 2010. However, we may not achieve our planned expansion on a timely and profitable basis or achieve results in new locations similar to those achieved in existing locations in prior periods. Our ability to open and operate new DSW stores on a timely and profitable basis depends on many factors, including, among others, our ability to: • identify suitable markets and sites for new store locations with financially stable co-tenants and landlords; • negotiate favorable lease terms; • build-out or refurbish sites on a timely and effective basis; • obtain sufficient levels of inventory to meet the needs of new stores; • obtain sufficient financing and capital resources or generate sufficient operating cash flows from operations to fund growth; • open new stores at costs not significantly greater than those anticipated; • successfully open new DSW stores in markets in which we currently have few or no stores; • control the costs of other capital investments associated with store openings; • hire, train and retain qualified managers and store personnel; and • successfully integrate new stores into our existing infrastructure, operations, management and distribution systems or adapt such infrastructure, operations and systems to accommodate our growth. As a result, we may be unable to open new stores at the rates expected or at all. If we fail to successfully implement our growth strategy, the opening of new DSW stores could be delayed or prevented, could cost more than anticipated and could divert resources from other areas of our business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that we open new DSW stores in our existing markets, we may experience reduced net sales in existing stores in those markets. As our store base increases, our stores will become more concentrated in the markets we serve. As a result, the number of customers and financial performance of individual stores may decline and the average sales per square foot at our stores may be reduced. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents We have entered into Supply Agreements with Stein Mart, Gordmans and Filene’s Basement. If Stein Mart, Gordmans or Filene’s Basement were to terminate our supply agreements, close a significant number of stores or liquidate, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Our supply agreements are typically for multiple years with automatic renewal options as long as either party does not give notice of intent not to renew. For Stein Mart, Gordmans and Filene’s Basement, our contractual termination dates are December 2012, January 2013 and January 2013, respectively. In addition, the agreements contain provisions that may trigger an earlier termination. For fiscal 2009, the sales from our leased business segment represent approximately 9.2% of our total company sales. In the event of the loss of one of these leased supply agreements, it is unlikely that we would be able to proportionately reduce expenses to the reduction of sales. The performance of our leased departments is highly dependant on the performance of Stein Mart, Gordmans and Filene’s Basement. In fiscal 2009, Filene’s Basement filed for bankruptcy protection and its assets were purchased by a subsidiary of Syms, which now operates stores under the Filene’s Basement name. If Stein Mart, Gordmans or Filene’s Basement were to terminate our supply agreements, close a significant number of stores or liquidate, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We launched dsw.com in fiscal 2008, which may not be successful and could adversely affect our results of operations or distract management from our core business. We launched dsw.com in fiscal 2008 to sell shoes and related accessories through our website. We have a ten-year lease agreement for space to serve as a fulfillment center for dsw.com distribution. The operation of such a business channel could distract management from our core business, take business from our existing store base resulting in lower sales in our stores or be unsuccessful. In the event that our actual sales are lower than planned, we will likely take markdowns on inventory which will adversely affect gross margin. In the event that we lose focus on our core business, impact sales in our existing store base or are unsuccessful in the operation of dsw.com, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or result in asset impairment charges related to assets used specifically by dsw.com. We rely on our good relationships with vendors to purchase better-branded merchandise at favorable prices. If these relationships were to be impaired, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient assortment of merchandise at attractive prices, and we may not be able to respond promptly to changing fashion trends, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, our business and financial performance. We do not have long-term supply agreements or exclusive arrangements with any vendors and, therefore, our success depends on maintaining good relationships with our vendors. Our growth strategy depends to a significant extent on the willingness and ability of our vendors to supply us with sufficient inventory to stock our stores. If we fail to maintain our relationships with our existing vendors or to enhance the quality of merchandise they supply us, and if we cannot maintain or acquire new vendors of in-season better-branded merchandise, our ability to obtain a sufficient amount and variety of merchandise at favorable prices may be limited, which could have a negative impact on our competitive position. In addition, our inability to stock our DSW stores with in-season merchandise at attractive prices could result in lower net sales and decreased customer interest in our stores, which could adversely affect our financial performance. During fiscal 2009, merchandise supplied to DSW by three key vendors accounted for approximately 21% of our net footwear sales. The loss of or a reduction in the amount of merchandise made available to us by any one of these vendors could have an adverse effect on our business. We may be unable to anticipate and respond to fashion trends and consumer preferences in the markets in which we operate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our merchandising strategy is based on identifying each region’s customer base and having the proper mix of products in each store to attract our target customers in that region. This requires us to anticipate and respond to numerous and fluctuating variables in fashion trends and other conditions in the markets in which our stores are situated. A variety of factors will affect our ability to maintain the proper mix of products in each store, including: • variations in local economic conditions, which could affect our customers’ discretionary spending and their price sensitivity; • unanticipated fashion trends; • our success in developing and maintaining vendor relationships that provide us access to in-season merchandise at attractive prices; • our success in distributing merchandise to our stores in an efficient manner; and • changes in weather patterns, which in turn affect consumer preferences. 7 Table of Contents If we are unable to anticipate and fulfill the merchandise needs of each region, we may experience decreases in our net sales and may be forced to increase markdowns in relation to slow-moving merchandise, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are affected by seasonal variability. Our business is subject to seasonal merchandise trends when our customers’ interest in new seasonal styles increases. As a result of seasonal merchandise trends, any factors negatively affecting us during these periods, including adverse weather, the timing and level of markdowns, fashion trends or unfavorable economic conditions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating cash flow and results of operations for the entire year. Our sales and quarterly financial performance may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, which could result in a decline in the price of our Class A Common Shares. Our business is sensitive to customers’ spending patterns, which in turn are subject to prevailing regional and national economic conditions and the general level of economic activity. Our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. A variety of other factors affect our sales and quarterly financial performance, including: • challenging U.S. economic conditions and, in particular, the retail sales environment; • changes in our merchandising strategy; • timing and concentration of new DSW store openings and related new store and other start-up costs; • levels of new store expenses associated with new DSW stores; • changes in our merchandise mix; • changes in and regional variations in demographic and population characteristics; • timing of promotional events; • seasonal fluctuations due to weather conditions; and • actions by our competitors. Accordingly, our results for any one fiscal quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any other quarter, and comparable store sales for any particular future period may decrease. Our future financial performance may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the price of our Class A Common Shares would likely decline. For more information on our quarterly results of operations, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” We are reliant on our information systems and the loss or disruption of services could affect our ability to implement our growth strategy and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our information systems are an integral part of our growth strategy in efficiently operating our stores, in managing the operations of a growing store base and resolving security risks related to our electronic processing and transmission of confidential customer information. The capital required to keep our information systems operating at peak performance may be higher than anticipated and could strain our capital resources, management of any upgrade and our ability to protect ourselves from any future security breaches. In addition, any significant disruption of our data center could have a material adverse effect on those operations dependent on those systems, most specifically, store operations, our distribution and fulfillment centers and our merchandising team. While we maintain business interruption and property insurance, in the event our data center was to be shut down, our insurance may not be sufficient to cover the impact to the business, or insurance proceeds may not be paid timely. 8 Table of Contents The loss or disruption of our distribution and fulfillment centers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. For DSW stores and leased departments, the majority of our inventory is shipped directly from suppliers to our primary distribution center in Columbus, Ohio, where the inventory is then processed, sorted and shipped to one of our pool locations located throughout the country and then on to our stores. Through a third party, we also operate a west coast bypass where shipments bypass our primary distribution center and go directly to one of our pool locations from the west coast bypass. For dsw.com, our inventory is shipped directly from our fulfillment center to customers’ homes. Our operating results depend on the orderly operation of our receiving and distribution process, which in turn depends on third-party vendors’ adherence to shipping schedules and our effective management of our distribution facilities. We may not anticipate all the changing demands that our expanding operations will impose on our receiving and distribution system, and events beyond our control, such as disruptions in operations due to catastrophic events, labor disagreements or shipping problems, may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores. While we maintain business interruption and property insurance, in the event our distribution and fulfillment centers were to be shut down for any reason or if we were to incur higher costs and longer lead times in connection with a disruption at our distribution and fulfillment centers, our insurance may not be sufficient, and insurance proceeds may not be paid timely. Our failure to retain our existing senior management team and to continue to attract qualified new personnel could adversely affect our business. Our business requires disciplined execution at all levels of our organization to ensure that we continually have sufficient inventories of assorted brand name merchandise at below traditional retail prices. This execution requires an experienced and talented management team. If we were to lose the benefit of the experience, efforts and abilities of any of our key executive and buying personnel, our business could be materially adversely affected. We have entered into employment agreements with several of these officers. Furthermore, our ability to manage our retail expansion will require us to continue to train, motivate and manage our employees and to attract, motivate and retain additional qualified managerial and merchandising personnel. Competition for these types of personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably. We may be unable to compete favorably in our highly competitive market. The retail footwear market is highly competitive with few barriers to entry. We compete against a diverse group of retailers, both small and large, including department stores, mall-based shoe stores, national chains, independent shoe retailers, single-brand specialty retailers, online shoe retailers, multi-channel specialty retailers and brand-oriented discounters. Some of our competitors are larger and have substantially greater resources than we do. Our success depends on our ability to remain competitive with respect to style, price, brand availability and customer service. The performance of our competitors, as well as a change in their pricing policies as a result of the current economic environment, marketing activities and other business strategies, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our market share. We are dependent on our “DSW Rewards” program to drive traffic, sales and loyalty. “DSW Rewards” is a customer loyalty program that we rely on to drive customer traffic, sales and loyalty. “DSW Rewards” members earn reward certificates that offer discounts on future purchases. In fiscal 2009, shoppers in the loyalty program generated approximately 84% of DSW store and dsw.com sales versus approximately 76% of DSW store and dsw.com sales in fiscal 2008. As of January 30, 2010, approximately 13 million members enrolled in “DSW Rewards” have made at least one purchase over the course of the last two fiscal years, compared to approximately 10 million members as of January 31, 2009. In the event that our “DSW Rewards” members do not continue to shop at DSW or the number of members decreases, it could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. The current slowdown in the United States economy has adversely affected consumer confidence and consumer spending habits. The current slowdown in the United States economy has adversely affected consumer confidence and consumer spending habits, which may result in reductions in customer traffic and comparable store sales in our existing stores with the resultant increase in inventory levels and markdowns. Reduced sales may result in reduced operating cash flows if we are not able to appropriately manage inventory levels or leverage expenses. These negative economic conditions may also affect future profitability and may cause us to reduce the number of future store openings, impair long-lived assets or impair goodwill. Consumer spending habits, including spending for the footwear and related accessories that we sell, are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, prevailing interest rates, income tax rates and policies, consumer confidence and consumer perception of economic conditions. In addition, consumer purchasing patterns may be influenced by consumers’ disposable income. 9 Table of Contents Consumer confidence is also affected by the domestic and international political situation. The outbreak or escalation of war, or the occurrence of terrorist acts or other hostilities in or affecting the United States, could lead to a decrease in spending by consumers. In an economic slowdown, we could experience lower net sales than expected on a quarterly or annual basis and be forced to delay or slow our retail expansion plans. The current economic slowdown is also impacting credit card processors and financial institutions which hold our credit card receivables. We depend on credit card processors to obtain payments for us. In the event a credit card processor ceases operations or the financial institution holding our funds fails, there can be no assurance that we would be able to access funds due to us on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We rely on foreign sources for our merchandise, and our business is therefore subject to risks associated with international trade. We purchase merchandise from domestic and foreign vendors. In addition, many of our domestic vendors import a large portion of their merchandise from abroad, primarily from China, Brazil and Italy. We believe that almost all the merchandise we purchased during fiscal 2009 was manufactured outside the United States. For this reason, we face risks inherent in purchasing from foreign suppliers, such as: • economic and political instability in countries where these suppliers are located; • international hostilities or acts of war or terrorism affecting the United States or foreign countries from which our merchandise is sourced; • increases in shipping costs; • transportation delays and interruptions, including increased inspections of import shipments by domestic authorities; • work stoppages; • adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • U.S. laws affecting the importation of goods, including duties, tariffs and quotas and other non-tariff barriers; • expropriation or nationalization; • changes in local government administration and governmental policies; • changes in import duties or quotas; • compliance with trade and foreign tax laws; and • local business practices, including compliance with local laws and with domestic and international labor standards. We require our vendors to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and our internal requirements. However, we do not control our vendors or their labor and business practices. The violation of labor or other laws by one of our vendors could have an adverse effect on our business. Restrictions in our secured revolving credit facility could limit our operational flexibility. We have a $150 million secured revolving credit facility with a term expiring July 2010. Under this facility, we and our subsidiaries are named as co-borrowers. This facility is subject to a borrowing base restriction and provides for borrowings at variable interest rates based on the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, the prime rate and the Federal Funds effective rate, plus a margin. Our obligations under our secured revolving credit facility are secured by a lien on substantially all of our and one of our subsidiary’s personal property and a pledge of our shares of DSW Shoe Warehouse, Inc. In addition, the secured revolving credit facility contains usual and customary restrictive covenants relating to our management and the operation of our business. These covenants, among other things, restrict our ability to grant liens on our assets, incur additional indebtedness, open or close stores, pay cash dividends and redeem our stock, enter into transactions with affiliates and merge or consolidate with another entity. In addition, if at any time we utilize over 90% of our borrowing capacity under this facility, we must comply with a fixed charge coverage ratio test set forth in the facility documents. These covenants could restrict our operational flexibility, and any failure to comply with these covenants or our payment obligations would limit our ability to borrow under the secured revolving credit facility and, in certain circumstances, may allow the lenders thereunder to require repayment. 10 Table of Contents We may be unable to secure a replacement credit facility upon the termination of our existing credit facility in July 2010 or the terms of a replacement credit facility could be materially different than the terms we have today. Our current credit facility expires in July 2010. While we do not currently have borrowings under our credit facility, we had approximately $17.4 million of letters of credit outstanding as of January 30, 2010. Based upon the current credit markets, we may be unable to secure a replacement credit facility, or if we are able to secure a replacement credit facility, the terms of such credit may be materially different from our current terms. Such revised terms or the price of credit could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Further, in the event we are unable to secure a replacement credit facility, our future liquidity may be impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The investment of our cash and short-term investments are subject to risks that could affect the liquidity of these investments. As of January 30, 2010 we had cash and short-term investments of $289.3 million. A portion of these are held as cash in operating accounts that are with third party financial institutions. While we regularly monitor the cash balances in our operating accounts and adjust the balances as appropriate to be within Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) insurance limits, these cash balances could be lost or inaccessible if the underlying financial institutions fail or are subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. To date, we have experienced no loss or lack of access to our cash and equivalents. We have investments in tax exempt, tax advantaged and taxable bonds, tax exempt term notes, and certificates of deposit. Certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks. To date, we have experienced other-than-temporary impairments of $2.9 million, excluding of $0.5 million of realized gains, and $1.1 million, respectively, in fiscal 2009 and 2008, related to our investments in auction rate securities. Our investments in auction rate securities have either been sold or fully impaired and no longer represent an impairment risk. While we generally invest in lower risk investments, investment risk has been and may further be exacerbated by credit and liquidity issues that have affected various sectors of the financial markets. As the financial markets have become more volatile, it has been increasingly difficult to invest in highly rated, low risk investments. We can provide no assurance that access to our cash and short-term investments, their earning potential or our ability to invest in highly rated, low risk investments will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. These market risks associated with our cash and short-term investments may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We are controlled directly by Retail Ventures and indirectly by SSC and its affiliates, whose interests may differ from our other shareholders. As of January 30, 2010, Retail Ventures, a public corporation, owns 100% of our outstanding Class B Common Shares, which represents approximately 62.4% of our outstanding Common Shares. These shares collectively represent approximately 93.0% of the combined voting power of our outstanding Common Shares. As of January 30, 2010, SSC and its affiliates, in the aggregate, owned approximately 52.0% of the outstanding Retail Ventures Common Shares and beneficially owned approximately 53.6% of the outstanding Retail Ventures Common Shares (assumes the issuance of 1,731,460 Retail Ventures Common Shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants held by SSC and its affiliates). SSC and its affiliates that own Retail Ventures Common Shares are privately held entities controlled by Jay L. Schottenstein, Chairman of our Board of Directors, and members of his immediate family. Given their respective ownership interests, Retail Ventures and, indirectly, SSC and its affiliates, control or substantially influence the outcome of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including, the election of directors, mergers or other business combinations, and acquisitions or dispositions of assets. The interests of Retail Ventures, SSC and their affiliates may differ from or be opposed to the interests of our other shareholders, and its control may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control that may be favored by other shareholders. SSC and Retail Ventures or their affiliates may compete directly against us. Corporate opportunities may arise in the area of potential competitive business activities that may be attractive to Retail Ventures, SSC and/or its affiliates and us. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation provide that Retail Ventures and SSC are under no obligation to communicate or offer any corporate opportunity to us. In addition, Retail Ventures and SSC and/or its affiliates have the right to engage in similar activities as us, do business with our suppliers and customers and, except as limited by the master separation agreement, employ or otherwise engage any of our officers or employees. SSC and its affiliates engage in a variety of businesses, including, but not limited to, business and inventory liquidations, apparel companies and real estate acquisitions. The provisions of the separation agreement also outline how corporate opportunities are to be assigned in the event that our, Retail Ventures’ or SSC’s directors and officers learn of corporate opportunities. 11 Table of Contents Some of our directors and officers also serve as directors and officers of Retail Ventures, and may have conflicts of interest because they may own Retail Ventures stock or options to purchase Retail Ventures stock, or they may receive cash- or equity-based awards based on the performance of Retail Ventures. Some of our directors and officers also serve as directors or officers of Retail Ventures and may own Retail Ventures stock or options to purchase Retail Ventures stock, or they may be entitled to participate in the Retail Ventures incentive plans. Jay L. Schottenstein is our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Retail Ventures; Harvey L. Sonnenberg is a director of DSW and of Retail Ventures; and James A. McGrady is a Vice President of DSW and the Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Retail Ventures. The Retail Ventures incentive plans provide cash- and equity-based compensation to employees based on Retail Ventures’ performance. These employment arrangements and ownership interests or cash- or equity-based awards could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when directors or officers who own Retail Ventures stock or stock options or who participate in these incentive plans are faced with decisions that could have different implications for Retail Ventures than they do for us. These potential conflicts of interest may not be resolved in our favor. If our existing shareholders or holders of rights to purchase our Common Shares sell the shares they own, or if Retail Ventures distributes our Common Shares to its shareholders, it could adversely affect the price of our Class A Common Shares. The market price of our Class A Common Shares could decline as a result of market sales by our existing shareholders, including Retail Ventures, or a distribution of our Common Shares to Retail Ventures’ shareholders or the perception that such sales or distributions will occur. These sales or distributions also might make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. We cannot predict the size of future sales of our Common Shares. As of January 30, 2010, there were 16,378,876 Class A Common Shares of DSW outstanding. Additionally, there were 267,425 restricted stock units and 129,705 director stock units outstanding as of January 30, 2010 that were issued pursuant to the terms of DSW’s equity incentive plan. The remaining 27,382,667 Class B Common Shares outstanding are restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act but will be eligible for resale subject to applicable volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144. SSC and its affiliates, Cerberus Partners L.P., or Cerberus, and Millennium Partners, L.P., or Millennium, have the right to acquire Class A Common Shares of DSW from Retail Ventures pursuant to warrant agreements they have with Retail Ventures. All of these Common Shares are eligible for future sale, subject to the applicable volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144. Retail Ventures has registration rights with respect to its DSW Common Shares in specified circumstances pursuant to the master separation agreement. In addition, SSC and its affiliates and Cerberus (and any party to whom either of them transfers at least 15% of their interest in registrable DSW Common Shares) have the right to require that we register for resale in specified circumstances the Class A Common Shares issued to them upon exercise of their warrants, and each of these entities and Millennium will be entitled to participate in registrations initiated by the other entities. Our amended articles of incorporation, amended and restated code of regulations and Ohio state law contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of DSW. This could adversely affect the value of our Common Shares. Our amended articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 100,000,000 preferred shares and to determine the powers, preferences, privileges, rights, including voting rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions on those shares, without any further vote or action by the shareholders. The rights of the holders of our Class A Common Shares will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred shares that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred shares could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control and could adversely affect the voting power of our Common Shares. In addition, provisions of our amended articles of incorporation, amended and restated code of regulations and Ohio law, together or separately, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change in control and limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for our Common Shares. Among other things, these provisions establish a staggered board, require a supermajority vote to remove directors, and establish certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for shareholder proposals to be considered at shareholders’ meetings. 12 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Relationship with and Separation from Retail Ventures The agreements we entered into with Retail Ventures in connection with our initial public offering could restrict our operations and adversely affect our financial condition. We and Retail Ventures have entered into a number of agreements governing our separation from and our future relationship with Retail Ventures, including a master separation agreement, an Amended and Restated Shared Services Agreement and a tax separation agreement, in the context of our relationship to Retail Ventures. Accordingly, the terms and provisions of these agreements may be less favorable to us than terms and provisions we could have obtained in arm’s length negotiations with unaffiliated third parties. The tax separation agreement governs the respective rights, responsibilities, and obligations of Retail Ventures and us with respect to tax liabilities and benefits, tax attributes, tax contests and other matters regarding taxes and related tax returns. Although Retail Ventures has informed us that it does not currently intend or plan to undertake a spin-off of our stock to Retail Ventures’ shareholders, we and Retail Ventures have agreed to set forth our respective rights, responsibilities and obligations with respect to any possible spin-off in the tax separation agreement. If Retail Ventures were to decide to pursue a possible spin-off, we have agreed to cooperate with Retail Ventures and to take any and all actions reasonably requested by Retail Ventures in connection with such a transaction. The PIES (Premium Income Exchangeable Securities) issued by Retail Ventures may adversely affect the market price for DSW Class A Common Shares. In fiscal 2006, Retail Ventures issued 2,875,000 units of its 6.625% Mandatorily Exchangeable Notes due September 15, 2011, or PIES (Premium Income Exchangeable Securities) in the aggregate principal amount of $143,750,000. In the third quarter of fiscal 2008, Retail Ventures repurchased 200,000 units of PIES, which are still considered outstanding and can be resold by Retail Ventures. Except to the extent Retail Ventures exercises its cash settlement option, the PIES are mandatorily exchangeable, on the maturity date, into Class A Common Shares of DSW, no par value per share, which are issuable upon exchange of DSW Class B Common Shares, no par value per share, beneficially owned by Retail Ventures. On the maturity date, each holder of the PIES will receive a number of DSW Class A Common Shares per $50 principal amount of PIES equal to the “exchange ratio” described in the offering prospectus, or if Retail Ventures elects, the cash equivalent thereof or a combination of cash and DSW Class A Common Shares. The settlement of the PIES will not change the number of DSW Common Shares outstanding. The market price of our Class A Common Shares is likely to be influenced by the PIES issued by Retail Ventures. For example, the market price of our Class A Common Shares could become more volatile and could be depressed by (a) investors’ anticipation of the potential resale in the market of a substantial number of additional DSW Class A Common Shares received upon exchange of the PIES, (b) possible sales of our Class A Common Shares by investors who view the PIES as a more attractive means of equity participation in us than owning our Class A Common Shares and (c) hedging or arbitrage trading activity that may develop involving the PIES and our Class A Common Shares. We may be prevented from issuing stock to raise capital, to effectuate acquisitions or to provide equity incentives to members of our management and board of directors. Retail Ventures is subject to contractual obligations with its warrantholders to retain enough DSW Common Shares to be able to satisfy its obligations to deliver such shares to its warrantholders if the warrantholders elect to exercise their warrants in full for DSW Class A Common Shares. Retail Ventures is also subject to contractual obligations with the holders of the PIES to retain enough DSW Common Shares to be able to satisfy its obligations to deliver shares to the holders of the PIES. These restrictions may prevent us from issuing additional equity securities to raise capital, to effectuate acquisitions or to provide management or director equity incentives. Our prior and continuing relationship with Retail Ventures exposes us to risks attributable to Retail Ventures’ businesses. Retail Ventures is obligated to indemnify us for losses that a party may seek to impose upon us or our affiliates for liabilities relating to the Retail Ventures business that are incurred through a breach of the master separation agreement or any ancillary agreement by Retail Ventures, if such losses are attributable to Retail Ventures in connection with our initial public offering or are not expressly assumed by us under the master separation agreement. Any claims made against us that are properly attributable to Retail Ventures in accordance with these arrangements require us to exercise our rights under the master separation agreement to obtain payment from Retail Ventures. We are exposed to the risk that, in these circumstances, Retail Ventures cannot, or will not, make the required payment. If this were to occur, our business and financial performance could be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents Possible future sales of Class A Common Shares by Retail Ventures, SSC and its affiliates, Cerberus and Millennium could adversely affect prevailing market prices for the Class A Common Shares. Retail Ventures may sell any and all of the Common Shares held by it subject to applicable securities laws and the restrictions set forth below. In addition, SSC and its affiliates, Cerberus and Millennium have the right to acquire from Retail Ventures Class A Common Shares of DSW. Sales or distribution by Retail Ventures, SSC and its affiliates, Cerberus and Millennium of a substantial number of Class A Common Shares in the public market or to their respective shareholders, or the perception that such SSC and its affiliates, Cerberus and Millennium sales or distributions could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for the Class A Common Shares. Retail Ventures has not advised us that it currently intends to dispose of the Common Shares owned by it, excluding the sale of 320,000 Class B Common Shares to DSW and except to the extent necessary to satisfy its obligations, including obligations under the PIES and obligations under warrants it has granted to SSC and its affiliates, Cerberus, and Millennium. In addition, Retail Ventures is subject to contractual obligations with its warrantholders to retain enough DSW Common Shares to be able to satisfy its obligations to deliver such shares to its warrantholders if the warrantholders elect to exercise their warrants in full for DSW Class A Common Shares. Retail Ventures is also subject to contractual obligations with the holders of the PIES to retain enough DSW Common Shares to be able to satisfy its obligations to deliver shares to the holders of the PIES. In addition, in the event that the PIES were to be accelerated, a payment which is required to be paid to the PIES holders by RVI can be satisfied by, in lieu of paying cash, using additional Class A Common Shares upon compliance with the terms of the instruments governing the PIES. The settlement of the PIES will not change the number of DSW Common Shares outstanding, although shares delivered upon the settlement of the PIES will generally be freely tradable by the former PIES holders as a result of having been registered in connection with the initial issuance of the PIES. If Retail Ventures were to require funds to service or refinance its indebtedness or to fund its operations in the future and could not obtain capital from alternative sources, it could seek to sell some or all of the Common Shares of DSW that it holds in order to obtain such funds. On January 15, 2010, we entered into a share purchase agreement with RVI pursuant to which RVI sold to us 320,000 Class B Common Shares, without par value, of DSW, for an aggregate amount of $8.0 million. Similarly, SSC and its affiliates, Cerberus and Millennium are not subject to any contractual obligation to retain Class A Common Shares they may acquire from Retail Ventures. As a result, there can be no assurance concerning the period of time during which Retail Ventures, SSC and its affiliates, Cerberus and Millennium will maintain their respective beneficial ownership of Common Shares in the future. Retail Ventures, SSC and its affiliates, and Cerberus (and any party to whom either of them transfers at least 15% of their interest in registrable DSW Common Shares) will have registration rights with respect to their respective Common Shares, which would facilitate any future distribution, and SSC and its affiliates, Cerberus and Millennium will be entitled to participate in the registrations initiated by the other entities. RVI has a long-term lease and DSW has agreed to pay two-thirds of the expense related to the lease. RVI is party to a lease for an office facility in Columbus, Ohio (the “Premises”) as of September 2003. In April 2005, RVI sublet the Premises to a third-party at a rent that was lower than the rent charged to RVI under the lease. RVI remains liable under the lease through the lease expiration date in 2024. DSW, through the master separation agreement with RVI, agreed to pay two-thirds of any net expense and receive two-thirds of any net profit from the lease. In fiscal 2010, DSW expects to pay $0.5 million related to this agreement. In the event the third-party subtenant defaults under the sublease or vacates the premises, the amount of this increased expense could be material and may have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial position. 14 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 