Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Statements in this Annual Report under the captions “Business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” as well as oral statements that may be made by us or by our officers, directors or employees acting on our behalf, that are not historical fact constitute “forward- looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to be materially different from the historical results or from any results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth below. We do not intend to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events. Risks Related to Our Business and Strategy We have a history of net losses, which we expect to continue for at least several years and, as a result, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when, if ever, we will become profitable. We have incurred $217.8 million in cumulative net losses from our inception in 1997, and we expect losses to continue for the next several years. Our net loss for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 was $29.8 million, and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 was $38.1 million. To date, we have only recognized revenues through payments for funded research and development and license or collaboration fees and we do not anticipate generating significant revenues from sales of our products, if approved, for at least several years, if at all. All of our product candidates are in development and none has been approved for commercial sale. We expect to continue to have significant operating expenses over the next several years as we advance our TLR 22 Table of Contents Therapeutic product candidates into clinical trials, expand our research and development activities, seek to in-license or acquire relevant technologies or assets, and seek regulatory approvals and engage in commercialization activities in anticipation of potential United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, approval of our product candidates. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing our product candidates and their potential for commercialization, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, the market value of our common stock will likely decline. We have limited sources of revenue and if we are unable to secure additional funding, we will have to reduce or discontinue operations. We will require substantial funds to conduct development, including preclinical testing and clinical trials of our product candidates. We currently believe that our available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, expected milestone payments and reimbursements from Pfizer and other collaborators under our collaboration agreements, and interest income will be sufficient to fund our anticipated levels of operations for approximately the next three years. However, our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the scope, progress, expansion, costs and results of our research and development programs and clinical trials; • the timing of, and the costs involved in, obtaining regulatory approvals; • our ability to establish and maintain collaborative and licensing arrangements and obtain milestone, license, royalty and other payments from third parties; • the emergence of competing technologies and other adverse market developments; • the costs of maintaining, expanding and protecting our intellectual property portfolio, including potential litigation or interference costs and liabilities, licensing or acquiring additional intellectual property rights; and • the resources we devote to manufacturing, marketing and commercializing our products. Since our inception in 1997, we have financed our operations primarily through the sale of equity, interest income earned on cash and cash equivalent balances, lines of credit and payments under agreements with our collaborators. In order to fund our future needs, we may seek additional funding through public or private equity or debt financings, collaborative arrangements, lines of credit or other sources. Additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed, we may be required to delay, reduce or terminate some or all of our development programs and clinical trials. We may also be required to license technologies to others that we would prefer to develop and commercialize ourselves. If we raise additional capital through the sale of equity, or securities convertible into equity, further dilution to our then existing stockholders will result and new investors could have rights superior to the rights of holders of the shares of common stock. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt securities, these securities could have rights that are senior to holders of our common stock and could contain covenants that restrict our operations. In addition, the terms of future financings may restrict our ability to raise additional capital, which would delay or prevent the further development or commercialization of our product candidates. 23 Table of Contents We depend heavily on the success of our lead product candidate, PF-3512676, which is still under development. We have invested a significant portion of our time and financial resources since our inception in the development of TLR Therapeutics, including PF-3512676 for the potential treatment of cancer. We anticipate that in the near term our ability to generate revenues will depend primarily on the successful development and commercialization of PF-3512676 for cancer by Pfizer pursuant to our collaboration. The commercial success of PF-3512676 will depend on several factors, including the following: • our ability to work effectively with Pfizer under our collaboration during their development of PF-3512676 for cancer; • successful completion of Phase III clinical trials in NSCLC and Phase II clinical trials in other cancer indications; • receipt of marketing approvals from the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities; • if approved, the successful commercial launch of PF-3512676 by Pfizer; • producing batches of the active pharmaceutical ingredient used in PF-3512676 in commercial quantities through a validated process; and • acceptance of PF-3512676 or competitive products in the medical community and with third-party payors. If Pfizer is not successful in developing or commercializing PF-3512676, or is significantly delayed in doing so, our business will be materially harmed and we may need to curtail or cease operations. The success of PF-3512676 depends heavily on our collaboration with Pfizer. If Pfizer is unable to further develop or commercialize PF-3512676, or experiences significant delays in doing so, our business will be materially harmed. In March 2005, we entered into a series of agreements with Pfizer, having as its main focus the development and commercialization of PF-3512676 for the prevention and treatment of cancers. We cannot predict the success of the collaboration. The collaboration involves a complex allocation of responsibilities, costs and benefits, provides for milestone payments to us upon the achievement of specified clinical and regulatory milestones and also provides us with royalty-based revenue if PF-3512676 or another product candidate is successfully commercialized. Pfizer is responsible for conducting and funding all future development and regulatory approval activities for PF-3512676 in cancers. Pfizer has significant control over the conduct and timing of development efforts with respect to PF-3512676. Although we have had discussions with Pfizer regarding their current plans and intentions with regard to the clinical development of PF-3512676, we cannot provide any assurance that Pfizer will not revise its plans for PF-3512676. Pfizer’s failure to devote sufficient financial and other resources to the development plan may delay the clinical development of PF-3512676, which could lead to the delay in payment of clinical and regulatory milestones under our agreements with Pfizer and may delay eventual commercialization of PF-3512676 and any royalties we could receive on commercial sales. Communication and coordination of our activities with Pfizer are governed by a development committee with responsibility over development, regulatory and manufacturing matters. There is also a post-development committee that coordinates post-approval matters. However, ultimate decision-making authority in each of these committees is vested in Pfizer. With respect to commercialization, Pfizer will commercialize PF-3512676, if approved, pursuant to an exclusive license and pay us a royalty on net sales. Pfizer may terminate the collaboration relationship without cause upon not less than 120 days’ prior written notice. Either party may terminate the collaboration pursuant to an uncured material default, as defined in the license agreement. Any loss of Pfizer as a collaborator in the development or commercialization of PF-3512676, dispute over the terms of, or decisions regarding, the collaboration or other adverse developments in our relationship with Pfizer may materially harm our business and might accelerate our need for additional capital. 24 Table of Contents We or our collaborators must receive government regulatory approval for each of our TLR Therapeutic product candidates before they can be marketed and sold in the United States or in other countries and this approval process is uncertain, time-consuming and expensive. We do not anticipate that any of our TLR Therapeutic product candidates will be commercially available in the next several years, if at all. The preclinical development, clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing of our TLR Therapeutic product candidates are all subject to extensive regulation by the FDA in the United States and foreign regulatory authorities. The clinical trial and regulatory approval process is lengthy, expensive and uncertain and we may be unable to obtain approval for our product candidates. We have not received regulatory approval to market our product candidates in any jurisdiction and do not expect to receive such approval, if at all, for the next several years. Pfizer has initiated two pivotal Phase III clinical trials of PF-3512676 in advanced first-line NSCLC patients under the Special Protocol Assessment, or SPA, procedure of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. An SPA is an agreement between an applicant and the FDA on the design and the size of clinical trials that is intended to form the basis of a New Drug Application. An applicant may decide, or the FDA may require the applicant, to modify the proposed protocol by changing the proposed primary endpoint, the size of the study or otherwise, which may result in a delay in the initiation or completion of the clinical trials that are the subject of the SPA. These changes could result from a change in the standard of care for the proposed indication or other aspects of the protocol for the proposed clinical trials. Any significant change to the protocols for a clinical trial subject to an SPA would require prior FDA approval, which could delay implementation of such a change and continuation or completion of the clinical trial. Our TLR Therapeutic product candidates in current development are, and in the future may continue to be, based on new technologies that have not been formally reviewed or accepted by the FDA or other regulatory authorities and the FDA has not yet established any definitive practices or guidelines regarding the approval of these drugs. Our TLR Therapeutic product candidates, particularly PF-3512676 for NSCLC, are subject to competition from other therapies under development that may make the pathway for regulatory approval more difficult, or may delay the enrollment in or initiation of the Phase III clinical trials of PF-3512676 in NSCLC. Although any TLR Therapeutic product candidates we develop may be regulated as a new drug under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the FDA could decide to regulate them or other products we may develop as biologics under the Public Health Service Act. In addition, since some of our product candidates are being studied for clinical use in combination with other drugs, the FDA could decide that additional requirements will apply before granting necessary marketing approvals. The lack of definitive policies, practices or guidelines may hinder or slow review by the FDA of any regulatory filings that we or our collaborators may submit. Moreover, the FDA may respond to these submissions by imposing requirements that we or our collaborators may not have anticipated. Such responses could lead to significant delays in the clinical development of our product candidates and related delays in revenue from regulatory milestones or commercialization. The FDA and other regulatory agencies may adopt new standards for safety, manufacturing, packaging and distribution of drugs. It may be time-consuming or expensive for us or our collaborators to comply with these new standards. The FDA also has significant discretion in the product approval process and may disagree with our interpretation of data submitted in our marketing applications or with our suppliers’ opinions about their compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. This could result in delays in obtaining marketing approval for any of our product candidates, or possibly preclude us from obtaining such approval. If we or our collaborators encounter any delays or difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals or clearances for any TLR Therapeutic product candidates, it may: • impose significant additional costs on us or our collaborators; • diminish any competitive advantages that we or our collaborators might otherwise have attained; • limit our ability to receive milestones or royalties and generate revenue and profits; and • adversely affect the marketing of any products we or our collaborators develop. 25 Table of Contents If we do not receive regulatory approval for our TLR Therapeutic product candidates in a timely manner, we will not be able to commercialize our products, and as a result, our business and stock price will suffer. Even if we or our collaborators receive regulatory approval for any TLR Therapeutic product candidates, the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may impose limitations on the uses for which our products may be marketed. These limitations could reduce the size of the potential market for that product. Product approvals, once granted, may be withdrawn if problems occur after initial marketing. Failure to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements, both in the United States and other countries, can result in, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, refusal of the government to renew our marketing applications and criminal prosecution. Our TLR Therapeutic product candidates are at an early stage of product development, and our success depends on the further development and clinical trials of our product candidates. Failure to prove our products safe and effective in clinical trials could require us to discontinue operations. Our TLR Therapeutic product candidates are in the early stages of development, and significant additional research and development, financial resources and additional personnel will be required to develop any of our TLR Therapeutic product candidates into commercially viable products and to obtain regulatory approval. Currently, only one of our product candidates under development, PF-3512676, has completed Phase II clinical trials. In order for PF-3512676 to be approved by the FDA, Pfizer will be required to demonstrate in a much larger scale Phase III clinical trial and to a statistically significant degree that PF-3512676 prolongs survival of patients with NSCLC when used as a first-line treatment in conjunction with the current standard of care. We cannot assure you that such results will be achieved. We may fail to successfully develop and commercialize our other TLR Therapeutic product candidates if they: • are found to be unsafe or ineffective in clinical trials; • do not receive necessary approval from the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies; • fail to conform to a changing standard of care for the diseases they seek to treat; or • are less effective or more expensive than current or alternative treatment methods. Although to date the side effects observed in clinical trial participants receiving TLR Therapeutics have been as expected, we cannot assure you that additional or more severe adverse side effects with respect to our product candidates will not develop in future clinical trials, which could delay or preclude regulatory approval of our product candidates or limit their commercial use. Regulatory agencies may delay the start of clinical trials and delay or preclude regulatory approval by requiring us or our collaborators to obtain additional preclinical data including safety and toxicology data. Regulatory agencies may delay or preclude regulatory approval by requiring us or our collaborators to obtain additional safety or efficacy data which require additional clinical trials. Regulatory agencies may employ a range of methods to delay or preclude their approval, including placing trials on clinical hold. Product development failure can occur at any stage of clinical trials, and as a result of many factors there can be no assurance that we or our collaborators will reach our anticipated clinical targets. Even if we or our collaborators complete our clinical trials, we do not know what the long-term effects of exposure to our TLR Therapeutic product candidates will be. Such long-term effects may include the incurrence or aggravation of autoimmune disease, as has occurred with some other immunomodulatory drug therapies. Furthermore, our products will be used in combination with other treatments and there can be no assurance that such use will not lead to unique safety issues. Failure to complete clinical trials or to prove that our products are safe and effective would have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue and could require us to reduce the scope of or discontinue our operations. 26 Table of Contents Our clinical trials may be suspended, delayed or terminated at any time. Even short delays in the commencement and progress of our trials may lead to substantial delays in the regulatory approval process for our TLR Therapeutic product candidates, which would impair our ability to generate revenue. To obtain regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of our TLR Therapeutic product candidates, we or our collaborators must demonstrate through preclinical testing and clinical trials that our TLR Therapeutic product candidates are safe and effective. We or our collaborators may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time for various reasons, including regulatory actions by the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies, actions by institutional review boards, failure to comply with good clinical practice requirements and concerns regarding health risks to the subjects of clinical tests. Several factors could prevent successful completion or cause significant delays in the enrollment or completion of our clinical trials, including: • our TLR Therapeutic product candidates may not be safe or effective in humans; • delays in obtaining regulatory approvals to commence or continue a clinical trial; • the need for unexpected discussions with the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope, design or interim results of our clinical trials; • delays or the inability to obtain required approvals from institutional review boards or other governing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; • our inability to recruit, enroll or retain the required number of patients in our clinical trials on a timely basis; • failure of patients enrolled in our clinical trials to respond to our TLR Therapeutic product candidates; • data derived from clinical trials may be inconclusive or negative or otherwise unsuitable for submission to regulatory agencies; • unexpected side effects or other safety risks; • the standard of care to be compared against our product candidates may change, making the results of our clinical trials less compelling, requiring new clinical trials, or delaying the enrollment of new patients; • competition for patients from other clinical trials; • our third-party manufacturers may be unable to manufacture sufficient quantities of our TLR Therapeutic product candidates for use in clinical trials; or • the introduction of additional treatment options for patients who progress after first-line therapy. Any delays in, termination of, or negative results obtained from our clinical trials could materially and adversely affect our development and commercialization timelines, which would cause our stock price to decline and limit our ability to obtain additional financing. Only three of our product candidates, PF-3512676, VaxImmune, and AVE0675, are currently in or are planned to enter clinical trials and we may be unable to advance additional product candidates into clinical trials. Even if we do successfully enter into clinical trials with additional product candidates, the results from preclinical testing of a product candidate may not be predictive of the results that will be obtained in clinical trials. In addition, positive results demonstrated in preclinical studies and early clinical trials that we complete may not be indicative of results to be obtained in later clinical trials. For example, we recently suspended the development of ACTILON based on preliminary results obtained from a Phase Ib clinical trial and a Phase II clinical trial of this product candidate. Clinical trials usually take several years to complete, and failure can occur at any stage of testing. Ultimately, such clinical trials may not prove that our product candidates are safe and effective to the extent necessary to permit us to obtain marketing approvals from regulatory agencies. The historical failure rate for new 27 Table of Contents drug, biologic and device candidates is high. Adverse or inconclusive clinical trial results concerning any of our product candidates could require us to conduct additional clinical trials, could result in increased costs and significantly delay the filing for marketing approval for such product candidates with the FDA, or could result in a filing for a more narrowly defined, or different, indication or abandonment of development efforts entirely. Failure to obtain regulatory approvals in foreign jurisdictions would prevent us or our collaborators from marketing our products internationally. We intend to have our product candidates marketed outside the United States. In order to market products in the European Union and many other non-U.S. jurisdictions, we or our collaborators must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. We or our collaborators may be unable to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional and costly clinical testing and data review. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval, including approval of delivery devices for our product candidates. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other foreign countries or by the FDA. The failure to obtain these approvals could harm our business and result in decreased revenues from milestones or royalties in our collaboration agreements. Any new technologies or product candidates which we license or acquire will likely be at an early stage of product development, and our success depends on the further development and clinical trials of those product candidates. Any new technologies or product candidates which we license or acquire will likely be at an early stage of product development, and our success depends on the further development and clinical trials of those product candidates. Significant additional research and development, financial resources and additional personnel will be required to develop any such product candidates into commercially viable products and to obtain regulatory approval. If the patents, trade secrets and contractual provisions that we rely on to protect the new technologies or product candidates is inadequate, our ability to successfully commercialize the new technologies or product candidates will be harmed and we may not be able to operate our business profitably. We may fail to successfully develop and commercialize new technologies or product candidates if they: • are found to be unsafe or ineffective in clinical trials; • do not receive necessary approval from the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies; • fail to conform to a changing standard of care for the diseases they seek to treat; or • are less effective or more expensive than current or alternative treatment methods. Failure to successfully develop and commercialize new technologies or product candidates may have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue and could require us to reduce the scope of or discontinue our operations. Our product candidates may never achieve market acceptance even if we obtain regulatory approvals. Even if we or our collaborators receive regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of our product candidates, the commercial success of these products will depend on, among other things, their acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and other members of the medical community as a therapeutic and cost-effective alternative to competing products and treatments. If our product candidates fail to gain market acceptance, we may be unable to earn sufficient revenue to continue our business. Market acceptance of, and demand for, any product candidate that we may develop and commercialize will depend on many factors, including: • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; 28 Table of Contents • the prevalence and severity of side effects or other reactions; • the convenience and ease of use; • availability, relative cost and relative efficacy of alternative and competing products and treatments; • the effectiveness of our collaborators’ or our marketing and distribution strategy; • publicity concerning our products or competing products and treatments; and • our ability to obtain third-party insurance coverage and adequate payment levels. If our product candidates do not become widely accepted by physicians, patients, third-party payors and other members of the medical community, it is unlikely that we will ever become profitable. We depend on third-party contractors in the conduct of our preclinical studies and clinical trials and any failure of those parties to fulfill their obligations could adversely affect our product development and commercialization plans. We rely on third parties such as contract laboratories and clinical research organizations to conduct, supervise or monitor, some or all aspects of the preclinical studies and clinical trials for our product candidates, and we have limited ability to control any aspects of their activities. In the future, following our decision to suspend internal clinical development of ACTILON and to pursue an outsourced clinical development model, our reliance on third parties will increase. In addition, under our collaboration with Pfizer for PF-3512676, Pfizer has complete responsibility for the conduct of clinical trials of PF-3512676 in cancer. Accordingly, we have less control over the timing and other aspects of these preclinical studies and clinical trials than if we conducted them on our own. Third-party contractors may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct our preclinical studies or clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our trial design. The failure of these third parties to perform their obligations could delay or prevent the development, approval and commercialization of our product candidates. A key part of our business strategy is to establish collaborative relationships to commercialize and fund development of our TLR Therapeutic product candidates. If any collaborator terminates or fails to perform its obligations under agreements with us, the development and commercialization of our drug candidates could be delayed or terminated. A key aspect of our business strategy is to develop and commercialize products for the treatment of diseases through collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical companies, research institutions, the United States government and universities. Currently, we have established collaborative relationships with several pharmaceutical companies and government agencies. Funding of government contracts and grants beyond the U.S. government’s current fiscal year is subject to Congressional appropriations. In addition, the overhead rates used in these contracts are considered provisional and are subject to an annual review and audit. If the U.S. government fails to adequately fund its contracts and grants with us, our research, clinical development or commercialization efforts related to that contract could be delayed or terminated, or it may be necessary for us to assume responsibility for activities that would otherwise have been the responsibility of the U.S. government. The process of establishing collaborative relationships is difficult, time-consuming and involves significant uncertainty. Moreover, even if we do establish collaborative relationships, our collaborators may seek to renegotiate or terminate their relationships with us due to unsatisfactory clinical results, a change in business strategy, a change of control or other reasons. If any collaborator fails to fulfill its responsibilities in a timely manner, or at all, our research, clinical development or commercialization efforts related to that collaboration could be delayed or terminated, or it may be necessary for us to assume responsibility for activities that would otherwise have been the responsibility of our collaborator. If we are unable to establish and maintain 29 Table of Contents collaborative relationships on acceptable terms, we may have to delay or discontinue further development of one or more of our product candidates, undertake development and commercialization activities at our own expense or find alternative sources of funding. Because we have limited manufacturing experience, we depend on third-party manufacturers to manufacture product candidates for us. If we cannot rely on third-party manufacturers, we will be required to incur significant costs and devote significant efforts to establish our own manufacturing facilities and capabilities. We do not have any manufacturing experience, nor do we have any manufacturing facilities. We currently rely upon third-party manufacturers to manufacture preclinical and all clinical quantities of our TLR Therapeutic product candidates. We depend on these third-party manufacturers to perform their obligations in a timely manner and in accordance with applicable governmental regulations. Our third-party manufacturers may encounter difficulties with meeting our requirements, including problems involving: • inconsistent production yields; • poor quality control and assurance or inadequate process controls; and • lack of compliance with regulations set forth by the FDA or other foreign regulatory agencies. These contract manufacturers may not be able to manufacture our TLR Therapeutic product candidates at a cost or in quantities necessary to make them commercially viable. We also have no control over whether third-party manufacturers breach their agreements with us or whether they may terminate or decline to renew agreements with us. To date, our third-party manufacturers have met our manufacturing requirements, but we cannot assure you that they will continue to do so. Furthermore, changes in the manufacturing process or procedure, including a change in the location where the drug is manufactured or a change of a third-party manufacturer, may require prior FDA review and approval in accordance with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMPs. There are comparable foreign requirements. This review may be costly and time-consuming and could delay or prevent the launch of a product. The FDA or similar foreign regulatory agencies at any time may also implement new standards, or change their interpretation and enforcement of existing standards for manufacture, packaging or testing of products. If we or our contract manufacturers are unable to comply, we or they may be subject to regulatory action, civil actions or penalties. If we are unable to enter into agreements with additional manufacturers on commercially reasonable terms, or if there is poor manufacturing performance on the part of our third-party manufacturers, we may not be able to complete development of, or market, our TLR Therapeutic product candidates. If we are unable to retain our management, scientific staff and scientific advisors or to attract additional qualified personnel, we may be unable to develop and commercialize our TLR Therapeutic product candidates successfully and our business efforts will be seriously jeopardized. Our success depends heavily on the retention of the principal members of our scientific and management personnel. Robert L. Bratzler, Ph.D., our President and Chief Executive Officer, is critical to our ability to execute our overall business strategy. Dr. Arthur M. Krieg, our Chief Scientific Officer and scientific co-founder, has significant and unique expertise in immune system stimulation and regulation using oligonucleotides and related technologies. We currently have key person life insurance on the lives of Drs. Bratzler and Krieg, and we have an employment agreement in place with Dr. Bratzler. Additionally, we employ several other scientific personnel who we consider important to the successful development of our technology. Any of them could terminate his or her relationship with us at any time and, subject to any confidentiality and non-competition agreement with us, work for one of our competitors. Our future growth and success depends on our ability to recruit and retain qualified scientific and technical personnel. Although we have been successful in recruiting key personnel in the past, we face intense competition from other companies, universities and research institutions for 30 Table of Contents qualified personnel in our field, which may significantly increase the costs of recruiting and maintaining such personnel. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain, on acceptable terms, the qualified personnel necessary for the continued development of our business, we may not be able to commercialize a product candidate, sustain our operations or achieve our business objectives. Because we have subsidiaries located outside the United States, we are subject to risks related to foreign currency. Our subsidiaries Coley Pharmaceutical Group, Ltd., or Coley Canada, which is located in Ottawa, Canada, and Coley Pharmaceutical GmbH, or Coley GmbH, which is located in Langenfeld, Germany, expose us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and currency devaluations. We report our financial results in United States dollars, but a portion of our financial activity is denominated in Canadian dollars and euros. As a result, changes in the relative values of United States dollars, Canadian dollars and euros could affect gains or losses. Effects of exchange rate fluctuations on our financial condition, operations and profitability may depend on how successfully we manage foreign currency risks. There can be no assurance that steps taken by us to address foreign currency fluctuations, if any, will eliminate the adverse effects of these fluctuations and accordingly, we could suffer losses due to adverse foreign currency fluctuations. Risks Related to our Intellectual Property If the combination of patents, trade secrets and contractual provisions that we rely on to protect our intellectual property is inadequate, our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates will be harmed and we may not be able to operate our business profitably. Our success depends on our ability to obtain, maintain and enforce our intellectual property rights domestically and abroad. The patent position of biotechnology companies is generally highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions and has recently been the subject of much litigation. Neither the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, nor the courts have a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed or the degree of protection afforded under many biotechnology patents. The validity, enforceability and commercial value of these rights, therefore, is highly uncertain. Our patent estate includes, on a worldwide basis, 16 patents issued in the United States, 134 patents issued in the rest of the world and more than 453 pending patent applications. However, our patents may not protect us against our competitors. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its scope, validity or enforceability. The scope, validity or enforceability of our patents can be challenged in litigation. Such litigation can involve substantial costs and distraction. If the outcome of such litigation is adverse to us, third parties may be able to use our patented inventions and compete directly with us, without payment to us. Third parties may also be able to circumvent our patents by design innovations. We may not receive any additional patents based on the applications currently pending. On July 17, 2006, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed the dismissal of an interference action initiated by Dynavax Technologies Corporation in December 2003. The United States Patent and Trademark Office’s Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences dismissed the interference in March 2005. The interference challenged a claim issued to us in 2001 which covers the use of immunomodulatory CpG sequences in combination with allergens to treat allergies. Dynavax filed an appeal requesting a rehearing en banc by the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in September 2006. The United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit denied the appeal on October 16, 2006. Dynavax’s final route of appeal would be to request the United States Supreme Court to hear the case. The final appeal period for Dynavax on this decision expired in January 2007. On January 8, 2007 we were notified that an interference has been declared by the United States Patent and Trademark’s Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences involving US Patent 6,498,148 assigned to The Regents of the University of California and a pending patent application assigned to the University of Iowa Research 31 Table of Contents Foundation. The University of California patent is licensed to Dynavax. The University of Iowa application is licensed to us. The claims in the interference cover the use of CpG sequences to treat asthma. The interference has been set up to determine whether the University of California inventor or the University of Iowa inventors were the first to invent this technology. In its Declaration of Interference, the USPTO identified Dr. Krieg, our Chief Scientific Officer, and his co-inventors as the senior party. Because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing or, in some cases, not at all, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, neither we nor our licensors or collaborators can be certain that we or they were the first to make the inventions claimed in patents or pending patent applications, or that we or they were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in these patent applications. If third parties successfully assert that we have infringed their patents and proprietary rights or challenge the validity of our patents and proprietary rights, we may become involved in intellectual property disputes and litigation that would be costly, time consuming, and delay or prevent the development of our product candidates. If we are found to infringe on the patent or intellectual property rights of others, we may be required to pay damages, stop the infringing activity or obtain licenses covering the patents or other intellectual property in order to use, manufacture or sell our products. Any required license may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we succeed in obtaining these licenses, payments under these licenses would reduce any earnings from our products. In addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive and, accordingly, our competitors may have access to the same technology as that which is licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to alter the design of our TLR Therapeutic product candidates to make the licenses unnecessary, we may be unable to commercialize one or more of them, which could significantly affect our ability to sustain and grow our commercial business. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may be required to initiate patent litigation against third parties, such as infringement suits or interference proceedings. In addition, others may sue us for infringing on their patent rights or provoke interferences, even if such claims are without merit. Intellectual property litigation is relatively common in our industry and can be costly. Even if we prevail, the cost of such litigation could deplete our financial resources. Litigation is time-consuming and could divert management’s attention and resources away from our business. Furthermore, during the course of litigation, confidential information may be disclosed in the form of documents or testimony in connection with discovery requests, depositions or trial testimony. Disclosure of our confidential information and our involvement in intellectual property litigation could materially adversely affect our business. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could significantly limit our ability to continue our operations. An adverse determination in these proceedings or litigation could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to stop the infringing activity, allow our competitors to introduce or market competitive products without obtaining a license from us, or require us to seek licenses from third parties that may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we cannot obtain such licenses, we may be restricted or prevented from developing and commercializing our product candidates. Ultimately, we may be unable to sell some of our products or may have to cease certain business operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our revenue. Even if we are successful in defending against these proceedings or litigation, the proceedings or litigation itself could result in substantial costs. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed intellectual property, trade secrets or other 32 Table of Contents proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims and, even if we are successful in defending ourselves, could result in substantial costs or be distracting to management. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. If we are unable to protect our trade secrets, we may be unable to protect our interests in proprietary know-how that is not patentable or for which we have elected not to seek patent protection. In an effort to protect our unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how, we require our employees, consultants, collaborators and advisors to execute confidentiality agreements. These agreements, however, may not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information. These agreements may be breached, and we may not become aware of, or have adequate remedies in the event of, any such breach. In addition, in some situations, these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants, collaborators or advisors have previous employment or consulting relationships. Also, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. If we fail to comply with our obligations in the agreements under which we license development or commercialization rights to products or technology from third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. We are a party to technology licenses that are important to our business, and expect to enter into additional licenses in the future. We hold licenses from the University of Iowa Research Foundation and the Ottawa Health Research Institute relating to the technology underlying our TLR Therapeutics. These licenses impose various commercialization, milestone payment, royalty, insurance, indemnification and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with these obligations, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license, in which event we would lose valuable rights under our collaboration agreement and our ability to develop TLR Therapeutics. The University of Iowa Research Foundation is responsible for the preparation, filing, prosecution and maintenance of the patent rights licensed to us under our agreement with them, utilizing patent counsel approved by us. Under our agreement with the Ottawa Health Research Institute, we are responsible for the preparation, filing and prosecution of the patent rights licensed to us under our agreement with them, utilizing patent counsel selected and approved by Ottawa and Coley. Under both of these licenses, we have the right, but not the obligation, to prosecute infringement actions of patent rights licensed to us. If we elect not to pursue infringers under these agreements, the licensors have the right to file infringement actions. Risks Related to our Industry If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective than our existing product candidates or any products that we may develop, or if they obtain marketing approval for their products before we do, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry is highly competitive. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are under increasing pressure to develop new products, particularly in view of lengthy product development and regulatory timelines, expiration of patent protection and recent setbacks experienced by several products previously approved for marketing. We compete with many companies that are developing therapies to stimulate or suppress the immune system, including molecule-based products directed at cancer, infectious diseases, asthma and allergies. Several of these companies are developing products with technologies that are similar to ours. In particular, we are aware of some competitors, including Dynavax Technologies Corporation, Idera Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Intercell AG, and Cytos Biotechnology AG, that are pursuing the development of novel drug therapies that are agonists of, or that target, among other things, TLR9. We also face competition in the field of immunotherapy from academic institutions and governmental agencies. Many of our competitors may have greater financial and human resources or more experience in research and development than we have, or 33 Table of Contents both, and they may have established sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. If we or our collaborators receive regulatory approvals for our TLR Therapeutic product candidates, some of our products will compete with well-established, FDA-approved therapies that have generated substantial sales over a number of years. In addition, we will face competition based on many different factors, including: • the safety and effectiveness of our products; • the timing and scope of regulatory approvals for these products; • the availability and cost of manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities; • the effectiveness of our marketing and sales capabilities; • the price of our products; • the availability and amount of third-party reimbursement; and • the strength of our patent position. We also anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter our target markets and scientific developments surrounding immunotherapy and other cancer therapies continue to accelerate. Competitors may develop more effective or more affordable products, or may achieve patent protection or commercialize products before us or our collaborators. In addition, the health care industry is characterized by rapid technological change. New product introductions, technological advancements, or changes in the standard of care for our target diseases could make some or all of our products obsolete. Our products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, or if our product candidates or products exhibit unacceptable problems, if and when any of them are approved. Any product for which we or our collaborators obtain marketing approval, together with the manufacturing processes, and advertising and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continued regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. Any adverse effects observed after the approval and marketing of a product candidate could result in the withdrawal of any approved products from the marketplace. Absence of long-term safety data may also limit the approved uses of our products, if any, to short-term use. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products or their manufacture, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in: • restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes; • withdrawal of the products from the market; • voluntary or mandatory recalls; • fines; • suspension of regulatory approvals; • product seizures; or • injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. If we or our collaborators are slow to adapt, or unable to adapt, to changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new regulatory requirements or policies, we or our collaborators may lose marketing approval for them when and if any of them are approved, resulting in decreased revenue from milestones, product sales or royalties. 34 Table of Contents We will face uncertainty in any commercialization of our TLR Therapeutic product candidates relating to coverage, pricing and reimbursement due to health care reform and heightened scrutiny from third-party payors, which may make it difficult or impossible to sell our product candidates on commercially reasonable terms. Our profitability will depend, in part, on the extent to which government authorities, private health insurance providers and other organizations, in both domestic and foreign markets, known as third-party payors, provide reimbursement for the cost of our therapeutic products under medical insurance coverage. In the United States, the availability of medical reimbursement by governmental and other third-party payors affects the market for every pharmaceutical product. These third-party payors continually attempt to contain or reduce health care costs by challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. In certain countries, particularly the countries of the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceutical products and services and the level of government reimbursement are subject to substantial governmental control. Without the financial support of the government or third-party insurers, the market for our TLR Therapeutic products will be limited. Third-party payors may not reimburse sales of our TLR Therapeutic products or enable us or our collaborators to sell them at prices that will provide a sustainable and profitable revenue stream. Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation and future legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system may affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In the United States, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals, at both the federal and state government levels, to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably, if approved. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug and Modernization Act of 2003, or MMA, will change the types of drugs covered by Medicare, and the methodology used to determine the price for such drugs. Further federal and state proposals and healthcare reforms are likely. Our business could be harmed by the MMA, by the possible effect of this legislation on amounts that private payors will pay and by other healthcare reforms that may be enacted or adopted in the future. There is a substantial risk of product liability claims in our business. If we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance, a product liability claim against us could adversely affect our business. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our TLR Therapeutic product candidates in human clinical trials and will face even greater risks upon any commercialization by us of our TLR Therapeutic product candidates. We have product liability insurance covering our clinical trials in the amount of $10 million, which we currently believe is adequate to cover any product liability exposure we may have. Clinical trial and product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. As a result, we may be unable to obtain sufficient insurance or increase our existing coverage at a reasonable cost to protect us against losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business. An individual may bring a product liability claim against us if one of our products or product candidates causes, or is claimed to have caused, an injury or is found to be unsuitable for consumer use. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in: • liabilities that substantially exceed our product liability insurance, which we would then be required to pay from other sources, if available; • an increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to maintain insurance coverage in the future on acceptable terms, or at all; • withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers or patients; • damage to our reputation and the reputation of our products, resulting in lower sales; • regulatory investigations that could require costly recalls or product modifications; • litigation costs; and • the diversion of management’s attention from managing our business. 35 Table of Contents Claims relating to any improper handling, storage or disposal of biological and hazardous materials by us could be time-consuming and costly. Our research and development activities in our German and Canadian facilities involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials. We are subject to government regulations relating to the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by applicable laws and regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result or we could be penalized with fines, and any liability could exceed the limits of or fall outside our insurance coverage. We may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, or at all. Further, we could be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price is volatile and our common stock is thinly traded, and as a result purchasers of our stock could incur substantial losses due to reasons that may be beyond our control. The market prices for securities of companies in our industry have been highly volatile, and the market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate for a number of reasons, many of which are beyond our control including: • announcements regarding our product development programs and clinical trials or the progress of our collaborations, including in particular our license agreement with Pfizer for PF-3512676; • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • announcements regarding patent litigation or the issuance of patents to us or our competitors; • regulatory developments regarding us or our competitors; • announcements of studies or reports relating to the effectiveness or safety of our products or those of our competitors; • developments with our collaborators; • new products or services introduced or announced by us or our competitors; • changes in the structure of health care payment systems, including developments in price control legislation; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • additions or departures of key personnel or members of our board of directors; • sales of substantial amounts of our stock by existing stockholders, including officers or directors pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans; • changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; and • general economic, industry and market conditions. If any of these factors causes an adverse effect on our business, results or operations or financial condition, the price of our common stock could decline. In particular, any developments in our relationship with Pfizer, whether positive or negative, are likely to have a very significant effect on our stock price. Pfizer controls the clinical development of PF-3512676 under our license agreement. Accordingly, developments with respect to the license agreement and PF-3512676 are largely outside of our control. As a result, we have little or no control over developments in this regard that could significantly affect our stock price and the value of your investment in us. 36 Table of Contents In addition, stockholders have initiated class action lawsuits against some biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of these companies’ stocks. In the future, our stockholders may pursue similar litigation against us. In general, decreases in our stock price would reduce the value of our stockholders’ investments and could limit our ability to raise necessary capital or make acquisitions of assets or businesses. If a shareholder instituted litigation on this basis, it could result in substantial costs and would divert management’s attention and resources. If there are substantial sales of our common stock, our stock price could decline. Our venture capital fund-affiliated stockholders hold a substantial number of shares, which they are able to sell in the public market. If we or our stockholders sell significant amounts of our common stock in the public market, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. We have also registered all common stock that we have or may issue under our stock compensation plans. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to applicable restrictions under the securities laws. If any of these stockholders cause a large number of securities to be sold in the public market, the sale could reduce the trading price of our common stock. These sales also could impede our ability to raise future capital. If the ownership of our common stock continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent you and other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and may result in conflicts of interest that could cause our stock price to decline. Our executive officers, directors and beneficial owners of 5% or more of our common stock and their affiliates, in aggregate, beneficially own approximately 52% of our outstanding common stock. The interests of one or more of these stockholders may conflict with the interests of the other holders of our common stock. These persons, acting together, will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring Shareholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these persons, acting together, may have the ability to control the management and affairs of our company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company; • entrenching our management or members of our board of directors; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company; or • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law may prevent or frustrate a change in control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting or other rights of the holders of our common stock. These provisions include: • limiting the persons who can call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting shareholder actions by written consent; 37 Table of Contents • creating a classified board of directors pursuant to which our directors are elected for staggered 3-year terms and the removal of directors only for cause; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and • authorizing our board of directors to issue additional preferred stock with voting rights to be determined by the board of directors. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Our change of control agreements with our executive officers, key employees and directors may require us to pay severance benefits to any of those persons who are terminated in connection with a change in control of us. All of our executive officers and several key employees are parties to change of control agreements providing for the payment of severance benefits and acceleration of vesting of stock options in the event of a termination of employment in connection with a change of control of us. Change of control agreements with some of our directors provide for acceleration of vesting of their options in connection with a change of control. Accelerated vesting of options could result in dilution to our existing stockholders and harm the market price of our common stock. The payment of these severance benefits could harm our financial condition and results. In addition, these potential severance payments under these agreements may discourage or prevent third parties from seeking a business combination with us. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The Securities and Exchange Commission encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company’s future prospects and make informed investment decisions. This prospectus contains such “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements may be made directly in this prospectus, and they may also be made a part of this prospectus by reference to other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is known as “incorporation by reference.” Words such as “may,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expects,” “projects,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes” and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance identify forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements are management’s present expectations of future events and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements might include one or more of the following: • anticipated results of financing activities; • anticipated agreements with marketing partners; • anticipated clinical trial timelines or results; • anticipated research and product development results; • projected regulatory timelines; • descriptions of plans or objectives of management for future operations, products or services; • forecasts of future economic performance; and • descriptions or assumptions underlying or relating to any of the above items. 38 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 