Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves risks. The following is a description of the material risks and uncertainties that we believe affect our business and an investment in our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us and our business. If any of the risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Associated With Our Business We may continue to experience losses in our remaining Florida loans which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2010, we had $49.5 million of loans to borrowers in Florida, which was 5.3% of total loans at such date. Of these loans, $9.6 million were held-for-sale and $11.3 million were nonperforming loans. We incurred $8.6 million in write downs on Florida loans held-for-sale in 2010. Although we have marked our nonperforming and held-for-sale Florida loan portfolios to either market value or the value of the underlying collateral, further deterioration in this market may continue, which could result in additional write downs. We also may not be able to sell the held-for-sale loans at the estimated market value. Further, the $39.9 million of loans not held-for-sale, which include primarily residential real estate, commercial real estate and consumer loans, are subject to the risks related to the particular loan type as well as the economic conditions in Florida, which have declined significantly in the past several years, particularly with respect to commercial and residential real estate values. If we are required to recognize losses or write downs of assets in these Florida loans, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Difficult market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected the banking industry and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain conditions nationally and locally in our markets. Financial institutions continue to be affected by declines in the real estate market that have negatively impacted the credit performance of residential real estate, construction and commercial real estate loans and resulted in significant write downs of assets by many financial institutions. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. We retain direct exposure to the residential and commercial real estate markets, and we are affected by these events. Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses as they are incurred in our loan portfolio is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. A prolonged national economic recession or further deterioration of these conditions in our markets could drive the rate of losses beyond that which has been provided for in our recent quarterly provisions for loan losses and result in the following consequences: • increases in loan delinquencies; • increases in nonperforming assets and foreclosures; • decreases in demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our liquidity position; and • decreases in the value of the collateral securing our loans, especially real estate, which could reduce customers’ borrowing power. While economic conditions in Texas and the U.S., and to a lesser extent Florida, are showing signs of recovery, there can be no assurance that these difficult conditions will continue to improve. Continued declines in 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment, including job losses, could have an adverse affect on our borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds at an acceptable cost through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. Future growth or operating results may require us to raise additional capital, but that capital may not be available or it may be dilutive. We and Encore Bank are each required by the Federal Reserve and the OCC, respectively, to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In the event that our future operating results erode capital, if Encore Bank is required to maintain capital in excess of well-capitalized standards, or if we elect to expand through loan growth or acquisitions, we may be required to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise capital on favorable terms when needed, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, we will be subject to increased regulatory supervision and the imposition of restrictions on our growth and business. These outcomes could negatively impact our ability to operate or further expand our operations through acquisitions or the establishment of additional private client offices and may result in increases in operating expenses and reductions in revenues that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in order to raise additional capital, we may need to issue shares of our common stock that would dilute the book value of our common stock and reduce our current shareholders’ percentage ownership interest to the extent they do not participate in future offerings. If we are unable to continue to transform our balance sheet by originating loans and growing core deposits and if our strategic decision to offer wealth management services and insurance products does not continue to generate new business, our business and results of operations may be negatively affected. We have transformed our balance sheet by replacing lower yielding investment securities and purchased mortgage loans with our own higher yielding originated loans. We continue to focus on generating commercial lending relationships and transforming our balance sheet from one with a concentration in mortgages to a commercial lending specialization. We have also rolled out a full line of deposit and cash management products, which has enabled us to replace brokered deposits with core deposits. In connection with this transformation, we have disposed of our out-of-market locations and expanded the number of private client offices we operate in our target market of Texas. Additionally, we have made strategic acquisitions enabling us to offer wealth management services and insurance products to our clients. Our ability to continue the growth of originated loans and core deposits depends, in part, upon our ability to leverage our Texas offices and infrastructure, successfully attract core deposits, identify attractive commercial lending opportunities and retain experienced lending officers. Our ability to continue to successfully execute our business plan requires effective planning and management implementation, which may be affected by factors outside of our control. If we are not able to attract significant business from our target markets, our business and results of operations may be negatively affected. 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our dependence on loans secured by real estate subjects us to risks relating to fluctuations in the real estate market and related interest rates and legislation that could result in significant additional costs and capital requirements that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 80.3% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2010 was comprised of loans collateralized by real estate, with 81.2% of the real estate located in Texas and 5.3% located in Florida. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. The real estate markets in Florida, and to a lesser extent, Texas, have deteriorated in the last several years. A continued weakening of the real estate market in our primary market areas could have an adverse effect on the demand for new loans, the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, the value of real estate and other collateral securing the loans and the value of real estate owned by us. As real estate values decline, it is also more likely that we would be required to make provisions for additional loan losses, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Current market conditions include an over-supply of land, lots and finished homes in many markets, including those where we do business. As of December 31, 2010, we had $46.3 million, or 5.0%, of our total loans in real estate construction loans. Of this amount, $39.8 million were land loans, $757,000 were made to finance residential construction with an identified purchaser and $3.7 million were made to finance residential construction with no identified purchaser. Substantially all of these loans are located in the Houston area. Further, $2.1 million of real estate construction loans were made to finance commercial construction. Construction loans are subject to risks during the construction phase that are not present in standard residential real estate and commercial real estate loans. These risks include: • the viability of the contractor; • the value of the project being subject to successful completion; • the contractor’s ability to complete the project, to meet deadlines and time schedules and to stay within cost estimates; and • concentrations of such loans with a single contractor and its affiliates. Real estate construction loans also present risks of default in the event of declines in property values or volatility in the real estate market during the construction phase. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to completion, we may not be able to recover the entire unpaid portion of the loan, may be required to fund additional amounts to complete a project and may have to hold the property for an indeterminate amount of time. If any of these risks were to occur, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The federal banking agencies have issued guidance regarding high concentrations of commercial real estate loans within bank loan portfolios. The guidance requires financial institutions that exceed certain levels of commercial real estate lending compared with their total capital to maintain heightened risk management practices that address the following key elements: including board and management oversight and strategic planning, portfolio management, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing, and maintenance of increased capital levels as needed to support the level of commercial real estate lending. If there is any deterioration in our commercial real estate or real estate construction portfolios or if our regulators conclude that we have not implemented appropriate risk management practices, it could adversely affect our business and result in a requirement of increased capital levels, and such capital may not be available at that time. Our commercial real estate and commercial loans expose us to increased credit risks, and these risks will increase if we succeed in increasing these types of loans. We focus our lending efforts on commercial-related loans and intend to grow commercial real estate and commercial loans further as a proportion of our portfolio. As of December 31, 2010, commercial real estate and 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements commercial loans totaled $313.1 million. In general, commercial real estate loans and commercial loans yield higher returns and often generate a deposit relationship, but also pose greater credit risks than do owner-occupied residential real estate loans. As our various commercial loan portfolios increase, the corresponding risks and potential for losses from these loans will also increase. We make both secured and some unsecured commercial loans. Unsecured loans generally involve a higher degree of risk of loss than do secured loans because, without collateral, repayment is wholly dependent upon the success of the borrowers’ businesses. Secured commercial loans are generally collateralized by accounts receivable, inventory, equipment or other assets owned by the borrower and include a personal guaranty of the business owner. Compared to real estate, that type of collateral is more difficult to monitor, its value is harder to ascertain, it may depreciate more rapidly and it may not be as readily saleable if repossessed. Further, commercial loans generally will be serviced primarily from the operation of the business, which may not be successful, and commercial real estate loans generally will be serviced from income on the properties securing the loans. If our allowance for loan losses is not adequate to cover actual loan losses, our results of operations will be negatively affected. The allowance for loan losses is an estimate of losses incurred through year end. As the losses are confirmed, it is possible that additional loss provisions may be needed in future periods to refine that estimate, which will be made in addition to the regular provision for estimated losses in those periods. Loans totaling $716.8 million, or 77.0%, of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2010 represent loans originated since the beginning of 2006 and $74.1 million, or 8.0%, of our loan portfolio represents purchased loans. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our loan clients may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of the borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to cover an estimate of loan losses incurred in the loan portfolio at the balance sheet date. In determining the size of the allowance, we rely, among other factors, on a periodic analysis of our loan portfolio, our historical loss experience and our evaluation of general economic conditions. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses and adjustments may be necessary in future loss provisions. A material addition to the allowance for loan losses to correct for a material change in the estimate could cause our results of operations to be negatively affected. In addition, federal regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any significant increase in our allowance for loan losses or charge-offs required by these regulatory agencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our profitability depends significantly on local economic conditions in the areas where our operations and loans are concentrated. Our profitability depends on the general economic conditions in our primary market in Texas and in southwest Florida where we have loans. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to clients primarily in the greater Houston area, including Harris, Ft. Bend and Montgomery counties. As of December 31, 2010, $579.3 million, or 84.2%, of our commercial real estate, real estate construction and residential real estate loans were made to borrowers in Texas and $35.0 million, or 5.1% of such loans (which includes $20.8 million in purchased loans and excludes loans held-for-sale) were made to borrowers in Florida. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on our commercial, real estate and construction and consumer loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. In addition, if the population or income growth in either of these regions slows, stops or declines, income levels, deposits and housing starts could be adversely affected and could result 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements in the curtailment of our expansion, growth and profitability. In the last several years, economic conditions in Florida and, to a lesser extent, Texas have declined and if either of these regions experiences a downturn or a recession for a prolonged period of time, we would likely experience significant increases in nonperforming loans, which could lead to operating losses, impaired liquidity and eroding capital. Moreover, a significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, an outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic calamities, unemployment or other factors beyond our control could impact these local economic conditions and could negatively affect the financial results of our operations. We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments in the future. Recent insured depository institution failures, as well as deterioration in banking and economic conditions, have significantly depleted the FDIC’s DIF, resulting in a decline in the ratio of reserves to insured deposits to historical lows. The FDIC anticipates that additional insured depository institutions are likely to fail in the foreseeable future so the reserve ratio may continue to decline. In addition, the deposit insurance limit on FDIC deposit insurance coverage generally has increased to $250,000. These developments have caused the premiums assessed on us by the FDIC to increase and materially increase our noninterest expense. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC approved a final rule that amends its existing DIF restoration plan and implements certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. Effective April 1, 2011, the assessment base will be determined using average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity rather than the current assessment base of adjusted domestic deposits. Since the change will result in a much larger assessment base, the final rule also lowers the assessment rates in order to keep the total amount collected from financial institutions relatively unchanged from the amounts currently being collected. The new assessment rates, calculated on the revised assessment base, will generally range from 2.5 to 9 basis points for Risk Category I institutions, 9 to 24 basis points for Risk Category II institutions, 18 to 33 basis points for Risk Category III institutions, and 30 to 45 basis points for Risk Category IV institutions. The new assessment rates will be calculated for the quarter beginning April 1, 2011 and reflected in invoices for assessments due September 30, 2011. It is possible that our FDIC assessments could increase under these final regulations and could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our FDIC insurance related costs were $3.7 million compared with $2.1 million and $161,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. The FDIC insurance related cost for 2009 included $478,000 in prepaid assessments related to the fourth quarter of 2009 that would otherwise have been payable in the first quarter of 2010 and $684,000 related to the special assessment paid in September 2009. The increase was also a result of the expiration of credits used in previous years. If the goodwill that we recorded in connection with business acquisitions becomes impaired, it could have a negative impact on our profitability. Goodwill represents the amount of acquisition cost over the fair value of net assets we acquired in the purchase of another entity including our trust function, investment management and insurance subsidiaries. We review goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of the asset might be impaired. Examples of those events or circumstances include the following: • significant adverse change in business climate; • significant unanticipated loss of clients/assets under management; • unanticipated loss of key personnel; or • significant reductions in profitability. 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We determine impairment by comparing the fair value of the reporting unit with the carrying amount of that reporting unit. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of that reporting unit, an impairment loss is recognized based upon our calculation of the implied fair value of goodwill. Any such adjustments are reflected in our results of operations in the periods in which they become known. At December 31, 2010, our goodwill totaled $35.8 million. While we have recorded no such impairment charges since we initially recorded the goodwill, there can be no assurance that our future evaluations of goodwill will not result in findings of impairment and related write downs, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Future losses or insufficient core earnings may result in our inability to fully realize our net deferred tax asset, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and capital. As of December 31, 2010, we had a net deferred tax asset of $22.1 million. We regularly assess the realization of our deferred tax asset and are required to record a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that we will not realize all or a portion of the deferred tax asset. Our assessment is primarily dependent on historical taxable income and projections of future taxable income, which are directly related to our core earnings (earnings that exclude non-recurring income items) capacity and our prospects to generate core earnings in the future. Projections of core earnings and taxable income require us to apply significant judgment and are inherently speculative because they require estimates that cannot be made with certainty. We did not establish a valuation allowance against the net deferred tax asset as of December 31, 2010 as management believes that it is more likely than not that we will have sufficient future earnings to utilize this asset to offset future income tax liabilities. If we were to determine at some point in the future that we will not achieve sufficient future taxable income to realize our net deferred tax asset, we would be required under generally accepted accounting principles to establish a full or partial valuation allowance. If we determine that a valuation allowance is necessary, we would incur a charge to operations that could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and capital. The properties that we own and our foreclosed real estate assets could subject us to environmental risks and associated costs. There is a risk that hazardous substances or wastes, contaminants, pollutants or other environmentally restricted substances could be discovered on our properties or our foreclosed assets (particularly in the case of real estate loans). In this event, we might be required to remove the substances from the affected properties or to engage in abatement procedures at our sole cost and expense. Besides being liable under applicable federal and state statutes for our own conduct, we may also be held liable under certain circumstances for actions of borrowers or other third parties with respect to property that collateralizes one or more of our loans or property that we own. Potential environmental liability could include the cost of remediation and also damages for any injuries caused to third parties. We cannot assure you that the cost of removal or abatement will not substantially exceed the value of the affected properties or the loans secured by those properties, that we would have adequate remedies against prior owners or other responsible parties or that we would be able to resell the affected properties either prior to or following completion of any such removal or abatement procedures. If material environmental problems are discovered prior to foreclosure, we generally will not foreclose on the related collateral. The small- to medium-sized businesses we lend to may have fewer resources to weather a downturn in the economy, which may impair a borrower’s ability to repay a loan to us, and such impairment could materially harm our operating results. We make loans to professional firms and privately-owned businesses that are considered to be small- to medium-sized businesses. Small- to medium-sized businesses frequently have smaller market shares than their competition, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, often need substantial additional capital to expand 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements or compete and may experience substantial volatility in operating results, any of which may impair a borrower’s ability to repay a loan. In addition, the success of a small- to medium-sized business often depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on the business and its ability to repay our loan. A continued economic downturn and other events that negatively impact our target market could cause us to incur substantial credit losses that could materially harm our operating results. Our banking business is subject to interest rate risk and fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The majority of our banking assets are monetary in nature and subject to risk from changes in interest rates, which are neither predictable nor controllable. Like most financial institutions, our results of operations are significantly dependent on our net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned from interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this “gap” will negatively impact our results of operations. Many factors impact interest rates, including governmental monetary policies, inflation, recession, changes in unemployment, the money supply, and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. As of December 31, 2010, we were liability sensitive, meaning that our interest-bearing liabilities reprice more quickly than our interest-earning assets, so in the event of an increase in interest rates, our net interest income will be affected negatively. Although our asset liability management strategy is designed to control our risk from changes in market interest rates, it may not be able to prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense. All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011, financial institutions could commence offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. We do not yet know what interest rates other institutions may offer. Our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease if we begin offering interest on demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The wealth management fees we receive may decrease as a result of poor investment performance, in either relative or absolute terms, which could decrease our revenues and results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we received $19.0 million in fees from our wealth management business, which represented 59.8% of our total noninterest income. We derive our revenues from this business primarily from investment management fees based on assets under management and, to a lesser extent, fee-based financial planning services. Our ability to maintain or increase assets under management is subject to a number of factors, including investors’ perception of our past performance, in either relative or absolute terms, market and economic conditions, and competition from investment management companies. Financial markets are affected by many factors, all of which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions; securities market conditions; the level and volatility of interest rates and equity prices; competitive conditions; liquidity of global markets; international and regional political conditions; regulatory and legislative developments; monetary and fiscal policy; investor sentiment; availability and cost of capital; 32 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements technological changes and events; outcome of legal proceedings; changes in currency values; inflation; credit ratings; and the size, volume and timing of transactions. A decline in the fair value of the assets under management caused by a decline in general economic conditions would decrease our wealth management fee income. Investment performance is one of the most important factors in retaining existing clients and competing for new wealth management clients. Poor investment performance could reduce our revenues and impair our growth in the following ways: • existing clients may withdraw funds from our wealth management business in favor of better performing products; • asset-based management fees could decline from a decrease in assets under management; • our ability to attract funds from existing and new clients might diminish; and • our wealth managers and investment advisors may depart, to join a competitor or otherwise. Even when market conditions are generally favorable, our investment performance may be adversely affected by the investment style of our wealth management and investment advisors and the particular investments that they make. To the extent our future investment performance is perceived to be poor in either relative or absolute terms, the revenues and profitability of our wealth management business will likely be reduced and our ability to attract new clients will likely be impaired. As such, fluctuations in the equity and debt markets can have a direct impact upon our results of operations. Linscomb & Williams’ investment advisory contracts are subject to termination on short notice, and termination of a significant number of investment advisory contracts could have a material adverse impact on our revenues. Linscomb & Williams derived 97.2% of its revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010 from investment advisory contracts with its clients. These contracts are typically terminable by clients without penalty upon relatively short notice (generally not more than 60 days). Our wealth management clients can terminate their relationships with us, reduce their aggregate assets under management, or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different rate structures for any number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates, inflation, changes in investment preferences of clients, changes in our reputation in the marketplace, changes in management or control of clients, loss of key investment management personnel and financial market performance. We cannot be certain that Linscomb & Williams’ management will be able to retain all of their clients. If its clients terminate their investment advisory contracts, Linscomb & Williams, and consequently we, could lose a significant portion of our revenues. Our insurance agency’s commission revenues are based on premiums set by insurers and any decreases in these premium rates could adversely affect our operations and revenues. Our insurance agency subsidiary, Town & Country, is engaged in insurance agency and brokerage activities. For the year ended December 31, 2010, Town & Country received $5.8 million in commissions and fees, which represented 18.2% of our total noninterest income. Town & Country derives revenues primarily from commissions paid by the insurance underwriters on the sale of insurance products to clients. These commissions are highly dependent on the premiums charged by insurance underwriters, which historically have been cyclical in nature, vary by region and display a high degree of volatility based on the prevailing economic and competitive factors that affect insurance underwriters. These factors, which are not within Town & Country’s control, include the capacity of insurance underwriters to place new business, non-underwriting profits of insurance underwriters, consumer demand for insurance products, the availability of comparable products from other insurance underwriters at a lower cost and the availability to consumers of alternative insurance products, such as government benefits and self-insurance plans. 33 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Town & Country also receives contingent commissions, which are commissions paid by insurance underwriters based on profitability of the business, premium growth, total premium volume, or some combination of these factors. Town & Country generally receives these contingent commissions in the first and second quarters of each year. Due to the nature of these commissions, it is difficult for us to predict their payment. Increases in loss ratios experienced by insurance underwriters will result in a decreased profit to them and may result in decreases in the payment of contingent commissions to us. Town & Country cannot predict the timing or extent of future changes in premiums and thus commissions. As a result, we cannot predict the effect that future premium rates will have on our operations. While increases in premium rates may result in revenue increases, decreases in premium rates may result in revenue decreases. These decreases may adversely affect our operations and revenues for the periods in which they occur. Our business would be harmed if we lost the services of any of our senior management team and senior relationship bankers and are unable to recruit or retain suitable replacements. We believe that our success to date and our prospects for future success in our banking, wealth management and insurance businesses depend significantly on the continued services and performance of our Chief Executive Officer, James S. D’Agostino, Jr., our President, Preston Moore, and the other members of our senior management team. While we have granted restricted stock to, and have change in control agreements with, certain key officers, our ability to retain such officers may be hindered by the fact that we have not entered into employment or non-competition agreements with most of them. Therefore, they may terminate their employment with us at any time, and we could have difficulty replacing such officers with persons who are experienced in the specialized aspects of our business or who have ties to the communities within our primary market areas. In addition, as a participant in the CPP, we are subject to the executive compensation limitations under Section 111 of EESA, as amended. The EESA contains restrictions on bonus and other incentive compensation payable to certain of our most highly compensated employees. Such restrictions and standards may further impact management’s ability to retain key officers and employees as well as our ability to compete with financial institutions that are not subject to the same limitations as we are. The unexpected loss of services of any of these key officers could materially harm our business. Our growth could be hindered unless we are able to recruit and retain qualified employees. Competition for highly qualified employees in a number of industries, including the financial services industry, is intense in our market areas. Our business plan includes, and is dependent upon, our hiring and retaining highly qualified and motivated executives and employees at every level and, in particular, experienced loan officers and relationship managers. We expect to experience substantial competition in our endeavor to identify, hire and retain the top-quality employees that we believe are key to our future success. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to grow our banking, wealth management and insurance franchise and successfully execute our business plan. We operate in a highly regulated environment and, as a result, are subject to extensive regulation and supervision and changes in federal and local laws and regulations that could adversely affect our financial performance. We and Encore Bank are subject to extensive federal regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not the Company’s shareholders. These regulations affect the Company’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Any change in applicable regulations or federal legislation could have a substantial impact on us, Encore Bank and our respective operations. 34 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in light of the recent performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector. Additional legislation and regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could significantly affect our powers, authority and operations, or the powers, authority and operations of Encore Bank in substantial and unpredictable ways. Further, regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of this regulatory discretion and power could have a negative impact on us. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our wealth management subsidiary, Linscomb & Williams, is registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. The Investment Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations and fiduciary duties on registered investment advisers including record-keeping, operating and marketing requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities. The failure of Linscomb & Williams to comply with the Investment Advisers Act and regulations promulgated thereunder could cause the SEC to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of this act, including censure, termination of an investment adviser’s registration, or prohibition to serve as adviser to funds registered with the SEC and could lead to litigation by investors in those funds or harm to our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our financial performance. In addition, our insurance subsidiary, Town & Country, is subject to regulation by the Texas Department of Insurance. State insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners continually re-examine existing laws and regulations, and such re-examination may result in the enactment of insurance-related laws and regulations, or the issuance of interpretations thereof, that adversely affect the financial performance of Town & Country, and hence, us. As a regulated entity, we and Encore Bank must maintain certain required levels of regulatory capital that may limit our operations and potential growth. We and Encore Bank are subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by the Federal Reserve and the OCC, respectively. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory, and possibly additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on Encore Bank’s and our company’s consolidated financial statements. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, Encore Bank must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of Encore Bank’s assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet commitments as calculated under these regulations. Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require Encore Bank to maintain minimum amounts and defined ratios of total and Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets and of Tier 1 capital to adjusted total assets, also known as the leverage ratio. As of December 31, 2010, Encore Bank exceeded the amounts required to be well capitalized with respect to all three required capital ratios. To be well capitalized, a bank must generally maintain a leverage ratio of at least 5%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6% and a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%. However, the OCC could require Encore Bank to increase its capital levels. For example, regulators have recently required certain banking companies to maintain a leverage ratio of at least 8% and a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 12%. As of December 31, 2010, Encore Bank’s leverage, Tier 1 risk-based capital and total risk-based capital ratios were 7.41%, 11.78% and 13.04%. Many factors affect the calculation of Encore Bank’s risk-based assets and its ability to maintain the level of capital required to achieve acceptable capital ratios. For example, changes in risk weightings of assets relative to capital and other factors may combine to increase the amount of risk-weighted assets in the Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio and the total risk-based capital ratio. Any increases in its risk-weighted assets will require a 35 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements corresponding increase in its capital to maintain the applicable ratios. In addition, recognized loan losses in excess of amounts reserved for such losses, loan impairments, impairment losses on securities and other factors will decrease Encore Bank’s capital, thereby reducing the level of the applicable ratios. In addition, as discussed above in “Supervision and Regulation—Encore Bancshares, Inc.—Proposed Revisions to Capital Adequacy Requirements,” the possible future implementation of Basel III could require us to maintain substantially more capital with a greater emphasis on common equity. Encore Bank’s failure to remain well capitalized for bank regulatory purposes could affect customer confidence, our ability to grow, our costs of funds and FDIC insurance costs, our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock, our ability to make acquisitions, and on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Under regulatory rules, if Encore Bank ceases to be a well capitalized institution for bank regulatory purposes, the interest rates that it pays on deposits and its ability to accept, renew or rollover brokered deposits may be restricted. We face strong competition with other financial institutions and financial service companies, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The banking, wealth management and insurance businesses are highly competitive, and our profitability depends heavily on our ability to compete in our markets with other financial institutions and financial service companies offering products and services at prices similar to those offered by us. In our banking business, we face vigorous competition from banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies and credit unions. A number of these banks and other financial institutions have substantially greater resources and lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of banking services. We also compete with other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable financing than we can offer. Some of our nonbank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us. To the extent that we are forced to compete on the basis of price, we may not be able to maintain our current fee structure. In our wealth management and insurance businesses, we compete with national and regional investment management and financial planning firms, broker-dealers, accounting firms, trust companies and law firms. Many of these companies are more geographically diversified and have greater resources than we do. This competition in all of our businesses may reduce or limit our margins on banking services, reduce our market share, reduce our noninterest income and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and potential failures of other financial institutions. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with a variety of counterparties in the financial services industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or concerns about, one or more financial institutions with whom we do business, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be sold at prices that are sufficient for us to recover the full amount of our exposure. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to losses resulting from fraudulent and negligent acts on the part of loan applicants, correspondents or other third parties. We rely heavily upon information supplied by third parties, including the information contained in loan applications, property appraisals, title information, equipment pricing and valuation and employment and income 36 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements documentation, in deciding which loans we will originate, as well as the terms of those loans. If any of the information upon which we rely is misrepresented, either fraudulently or inadvertently, and the misrepresentation is not detected prior to asset funding, the value of the asset may be significantly lower than expected, or we may fund a loan that we would not have funded or on terms we would not have extended. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the applicant or another third party, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. A loan subject to a material misrepresentation is typically unsellable or subject to repurchase if it is sold prior to detection of the misrepresentation. The sources of the misrepresentations are often difficult to locate, and it is often difficult to recover any of the monetary losses we may suffer. An interruption in or breach in security of our information systems may result in a loss of client business and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure or interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our client relationship management, general ledger, deposits, servicing or loan origination systems. We cannot assure you that such failures or interruptions will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed by us. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions could result in a loss of client business and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Associated With an Investment in Our Common Stock Our directors and executive officers own a significant number of shares of our common stock, allowing management further control over our corporate affairs. As of February 28, 2011, our directors and executive officers beneficially own 23.4% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly, these directors and executive officers are able to control, to a significant extent, the outcome of all matters required to be submitted to our shareholders for approval, including decisions relating to the election of directors, the determination of our day-to-day corporate and management policies and other significant corporate transactions. Our corporate organizational documents and the provisions of Texas law to which we are subject may delay or prevent a change in control of our company that you may favor. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain certain provisions which may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change of control of our company. These provisions include: • a provision that any special meeting of our shareholders may be called only by a majority of the board of directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President or the holders of at least 50% of our total number of shares of common stock entitled to vote at the meeting; • a provision establishing certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for shareholder proposals to be considered at an annual or special meeting of shareholders; and • a provision that denies shareholders the right to amend our bylaws. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation provide for noncumulative voting for directors and authorize our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock, $1.00 par value per share, without shareholder approval and upon such terms as our board of directors may determine. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions, financings and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a controlling interest in us. In addition, certain provisions of Texas law, including a provision which restricts certain business combinations between a Texas corporation and certain affiliated shareholders, may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change in control of our company. 37 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. In addition, our future ability to pay dividends is subject to restrictions. We have not paid any dividends to our holders of common stock in the past and we currently do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In the event that we decide to pay dividends, there are a number of restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. It is the policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies should pay cash dividends on common stock only out of income available over the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. The policy provides that bank holding companies should not maintain a level of cash dividends that undermines the bank holding company’s ability to serve as a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries. Additionally, we received notice from the Federal Reserve that it must approve any dividends to be paid on our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock and any interest payments with respect to our junior subordinated debentures. If we fail to pay dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock or interest on our junior subordinated debentures, we will be prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock. Our principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock will be cash dividends that we receive from Encore Bank. The payment of dividends by Encore Bank to us is subject to certain restrictions imposed by federal banking laws, regulations and authorities. The federal banking statutes prohibit federally insured banks from making any capital distributions (including a dividend payment) if, after making the distribution, the institution would be “under capitalized” as defined by statute. In addition, the relevant federal regulatory agencies have authority to prohibit an insured bank from engaging in an unsafe or unsound practice, as determined by the agency, in conducting an activity. The payment of dividends could be deemed to constitute such an unsafe or unsound practice, depending on the financial condition of Encore Bank. Regulatory authorities could impose administratively stricter limitations on the ability of Encore Bank to pay dividends to us if such limits were deemed appropriate to preserve certain capital adequacy requirements. Future dividend payments and common stock repurchases are restricted by the terms of the U.S. Treasury’s equity investment in us. Under the terms of the CPP, for so long as any preferred stock issued under the CPP remains outstanding, we are prohibited from increasing dividends on our common stock, and from making certain repurchases of equity securities, including our common stock, without the U.S. Treasury’s consent until the third anniversary of the U.S. Treasury’s investment or until the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the preferred stock it purchased under the CPP to third parties. Further, as long as the preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including our common stock, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. The Federal Reserve has notified us that we must seek approval prior to paying any dividends on such preferred stock. The holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders. We have two issues of junior subordinated debentures outstanding, with an aggregate liquidation amount totaling $20.6 million related to the issuance of trust preferred securities by our non-consolidated subsidiary trusts, which are treated as capital for regulatory ratio compliance purposes. Although these securities are viewed as capital for regulatory purposes, they are debt securities and have provisions which, in the event of noncompliance, could have an adverse effect on our operations. For example, these securities permit us to defer the periodic payment of interest for various periods, but if such payments are deferred, we would be prohibited from paying cash dividends on our common stock during deferral periods and until deferred interest is paid. Future payment of interest depends upon the earnings of Encore Bank and its subsidiaries and dividends from Encore Bank to us, which may be inadequate to service the obligations. Further, the Federal Reserve has notified us that we must seek approval prior to making any interest payments with respect to our junior subordinated debentures. 38 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 