ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report, including Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation, contains forward-looking statements that may be materially affected by several risk factors, including those summarized below: Risks Relating to Our Company Since we have no operating history, investors have no basis to evaluate our ability to operate profitably. We were organized in 1996 but have had no revenue from operations since our inception. We have no history of producing metals from any of our properties. The majority of our properties are exploration stage properties in various stages of exploration. Our Tonopah (formerly referred to as “Midway”), Spring Valley, Golden Eagle, and Gold Rock properties are exploratory stage exploration projects with identified gold mineralization. Our Pan project is in the early development stage. Advancing properties from exploration into the development stage requires significant capital and time, and successful commercial production from a property, if any, will be subject to completing feasibility studies, permitting and construction of the mine, processing plants, roads, and other related works and infrastructure. As a result, we are subject to all of the risks associated with developing and establishing new mining operations and business enterprises including: ·completion of feasibility studies to verify reserves and commercial viability, including the ability to find sufficient gold reserves to support a commercial mining operation; ·the timing and cost, which can be considerable, of further exploration, preparing feasibility studies, permitting and construction of infrastructure, mining and processing facilities; ·the availability and costs of drill equipment, exploration personnel, skilled labor and mining and processing equipment, if required; ·the availability and cost of appropriate smelting and/or refining arrangements, if required; ·compliance with environmental and other governmental approval and permit requirements; ·the availability of funds to finance exploration, development and construction activities, as warranted; ·potential opposition from non-governmental organizations, environmental groups, local groups or local inhabitants which may delay or prevent development activities; ·potential increases in exploration, construction and operating costs due to changes in the cost of fuel, power, materials and supplies; and 12 ·potential shortages of mineral processing, construction and other facilities related supplies. The costs, timing and complexities of exploration, development and construction activities may be increased by the location of our properties and demand by other mineral exploration and mining companies. It is common in exploration programs to experience unexpected problems and delays during drill programs and, if warranted, development, construction and mine start-up. Accordingly, our activities may not result in profitable mining operations and we may not succeed in establishing mining operations or profitably producing metals at any of our properties. We have a history of losses and expect to continue to incur losses in the future. We have incurred losses since inception and expect to continue to incur losses in the future. We incurred the following losses from operations during each of the following periods: ·Approximately $18,615,682 for the year ended December 31, 2011; ·Approximately $6,432,914 for the year ended December 31, 2010; and ·Approximately $3,924,175 for the year ended December 31, 2009. We had an accumulated deficit of approximately $77,621,754 as of December 31, 2011. We expect to continue to incur losses unless and until such time as one of our properties enters into commercial production and generates sufficient revenues to fund continuing operations. Increased costs could affect our financial condition. We anticipate that costs at our projects that we may explore or develop, will frequently be subject to variation from one year to the next due to a number of factors, such as changing ore grade, metallurgy and revisions to mine plans, if any, in response to the physical shape and location of the ore body. In addition, costs are affected by the price of commodities such as fuel, rubber, and electricity. Such commodities are at times subject to volatile price movements, including increases that could make production at certain operations less profitable. A material increase in costs at any significant location could have a significant effect on our profitability. A shortage of equipment and supplies could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We are dependent on various supplies and equipment to carry out our mining exploration and, if warranted, development operations. The shortage of such supplies, equipment and parts could have a material adverse effect on our ability to carry out our operations and therefore limit or increase the cost of production. The nature of mineral exploration and production activities involves a high degree of risk and the possibility of uninsured losses. Exploration for and the production of minerals is highly speculative and involves greater risk than many other businesses. Many exploration programs do not result in the discovery of mineralization, and any mineralization discovered may not be of sufficient quantity or quality to be profitably mined. Our operations are, and any future development or mining operations we may conduct will be, subject to all of the operating hazards and risks normally incident to exploring for and development of mineral properties, such as, but not limited to: ·economically insufficient mineralized material; ·fluctuation in production costs that make mining uneconomical; ·labor disputes; ·unanticipated variations in grade and other geologic problems; ·environmental hazards; ·water conditions; ·difficult surface or underground conditions; ·industrial accidents; ·metallurgic and other processing problems; ·mechanical and equipment performance problems; ·failure of pit walls or dams; ·unusual or unexpected rock formations; ·personal injury, fire, flooding, cave-ins and landslides; and ·decrease in the value of mineralized material due to lower gold and silver prices. Any of these risks can materially and adversely affect, among other things, the development of properties, production quantities and rates, costs and expenditures, potential revenues and production dates. We currently have limited insurance to guard against some of these risks. If we determine that capitalized costs associated with any of our mineral interests are not likely to be recovered, we would incur a writedown of our investment in these interests. All of these factors may result in losses in relation to amounts spent which are not recoverable, or result in additional expenses. 13 Our mineralization figures are estimates based on interpretation and assumptions and our properties may yield less mineral production under actual conditions than is currently estimated. Unless otherwise indicated, mineralization figures presented in this Annual Report and in our filings with securities regulatory authorities, press releases and other public statements that may be made from time to time are based upon estimates made by independent geologists and our internal geologists. When making determinations about whether to advance any of our projects to development, we must rely upon such estimated calculations as to the mineral reserves and grades of mineralization on our properties. Until ore is actually mined and processed, mineral reserves and grades of mineralization must be considered as estimates only. Estimates can be imprecise and depend upon geological interpretation and statistical inferences drawn from drilling and sampling analysis, which may prove to be unreliable. We cannot assure you that: ·these estimates will be accurate; ·resource or other mineralization estimates will be accurate; or ·this mineralization can be mined or processed profitably. Any material changes in mineral resource estimates and grades of mineralization will affect the economic viability of placing a property into production and a property’s return on capital. As we have not completed feasibility studies on all of our properties and have not commenced actual production, mineralization resource estimates may require adjustments or downward revisions. In addition, the grade of ore ultimately mined, if any, may differ from that indicated by our feasibility studies and drill results. Minerals recovered in small scale tests may not be duplicated in large scale tests under on-site conditions or in production scale. The resource estimates contained in this Annual Report have been determined and valued based on assumed future prices, cut-off grades and operating costs that may prove to be inaccurate. Extended declines in market prices for gold, silver or other commodities may render portions of our mineralization and resource estimates uneconomic and result in reduced reported mineralization or adversely affect the commercial viability determinations we reach. Any material reductions in estimates of mineralization, or of our ability to extract this mineralization, could have a material adverse effect on our share price and the value of our properties. There are differences in U.S. and Canadian practices for reporting reserves and resources. Our reserve and resource estimates are not directly comparable to those made in filings subject to SEC reporting and disclosure requirements, as we generally report reserves and resources in accordance with Canadian practices. These practices are different from the practices used to report reserve and resource estimates in reports and other materials filed with the SEC. It is Canadian practice to report measured, indicated and inferred mineral resources, which are generally not permitted in disclosure filed with the SEC by United States issuers. In the United States, mineralization may not be classified as a “reserve” unless the determination has been made that the mineralization could be economically and legally produced or extracted at the time the reserve determination is made. United States investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of measured or indicated mineral resources will ever be converted into reserves. Further, “inferred mineral resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence and as to whether they can be mined legally or economically. Disclosure of “contained ounces” is permitted disclosure under Canadian regulations; however, the SEC only permits issuers to report “resources” as in place, tonnage and grade without reference to unit measures. Accordingly, information concerning descriptions of mineralization, reserves and resources contained in this report, or in the documents incorporated herein by reference, may not be comparable to information made public by other United States companies subject to the reporting and disclosure requirements of the SEC. Our exploration activities on our properties may not be commercially successful, which could lead us to abandon our plans to develop our properties and our investments in exploration. Our long-term success depends on our ability to identify mineral deposits on our existing properties and other properties we may acquire, if any, that we can then develop into commercially viable mining operations. Mineral exploration is highly speculative in nature, involves many risks and is frequently non-productive. These risks include unusual or unexpected geologic formations, and the inability to obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment or labor. The success of gold, silver and other commodity exploration is determined in part by the following factors: ·the identification of potential mineralization based on surficial analysis; ·availability of government-granted exploration permits; ·the quality of our management and our geological and technical expertise; and ·the capital available for exploration and development work. 14 Substantial expenditures are required to establish proven and probable reserves through drilling and analysis, to develop metallurgical processes to extract metal, and to develop the mining and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for mining. Whether a mineral deposit will be commercially viable depends on a number of factors, which include, without limitation, the particular attributes of the deposit, such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure; metal prices, which fluctuate widely; and government regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting of minerals and environmental protection. We may invest significant capital and resources in exploration activities and abandon such investments if we are unable to identify commercially exploitable mineral reserves. The decision to abandon a project may have an adverse effect on the market value of our securities and the ability to raise future financing. We may encounter archaeological issues and claims relating to our Tonopah and Pan properties, which may delay our ability to conduct further exploration or developmental activities or could affect our ability to place our properties into commercial production, if warranted. Our exploration and development activities may be delayed due to the designation of a portion of the Tonopah and Pan properties as a site of archaeological significance. A cultural inventory of the Tonopah project has identified a prehistoric site associated with a dune field in the Ralston Valley, adjacent to the Tonopah property. An intensive cultural and geomorphologic inspection was conducted of the project area to determine archaeologically significant areas. Techniques and methods used during the inventory were sufficient to identify most cultural resources and features in the area. Should significant surface disturbance be planned at the Tonopah project, a complete archaeological inventory and evaluation would be required, including the possibility of documenting and curating the site. A portion of dirt road currently used to access the Pan project site and traversing the south end of the proposed North Pit may have been an alternative route for the Lincoln Highway from 1913-1916 prior to the development of U.S. Highway 50. This has not been confirmed, but will be investigated when archaeological surveys are conducted. The highway as a whole is not eligible for listing on the National Registers of historic places or landmarks, but impacts to it may need to be mitigated. Carbonari sites, which are burn piles and habitations from Swedish/Italian charcoal producers, have been identified within or near the Pan project area. A survey would need to be conducted to identify, locate and record the findings of Carbonari sites. Our Tonopah property is in close proximity to a municipal water supply, which may delay our ability to conduct further exploration or developmental activities or could affect our ability to place the property into commercial production, if warranted. The Tonopah property lies within a basin from which the town of Tonopah obtains its municipal water supply. To date, Midway's exploration activities have not been restricted due to the proximity of the activities to this basin. As Midway's exploration and development activities expand, there is an increased risk that the activities may interfere with the water supply. As part of the mining development work on the Tonopah property, Midway completed a hydrologic review of the basin and will establish a strategy for preventing exploration and development activities from interfering with the water supply. Any damage to, or contamination of, the water supply caused by Midway's activities could result in Midway incurring significant liability. We cannot predict the magnitude of such liability or the impact of such liability on our business, prospects or financial condition. Midway has applied for water right permits in the Ralston Basin, which is currently under protest by the town of Tonopah. Midway is currently negotiating with the town about any future pumping of water in the basin. Midway is currently reviewing and negotiating dewatering options with the town of Tonopah that would be agreeable and beneficial for both parties. If Midway were not able to secure dewatering rights for the Tonopah project, the project may be restricted and could affect our ability to place the property into commercial production, if warranted. The volatility of the price of gold and silver could adversely affect our future operations and, if warranted, our ability to develop our properties. The potential for profitability of our operations, the value of our properties, the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise funding to conduct continued exploration and development, if warranted, are directly related to the market price of gold, silver and other precious metals. Our decision to put a mine into production and to commit the funds necessary for that purpose must be made long before the first revenue from production would be received. A decrease in the price of gold and silver may prevent our property from being economically mined or result in the writeoff of assets whose value is impaired as a result of lower gold and silver prices. The price of gold and silver is affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including inflation, fluctuation of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies, global and regional demand, the sale of gold and silver by central banks, and the political and economic conditions of major gold and silver producing countries throughout the world. The volatility in gold and silver prices is illustrated by the following table, which sets forth, for the periods indicated (calendar year), the average annual market prices in U.S. dollars per ounce of gold and silver, based on the daily London P.M. fix, as shown in the table below: Mineral 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Gold $1,571.52 $1,224.53 $972.35 $871.96 $695.39 Silver $35.12 $20.19 $14.67 $14.99 $13.38 The volatility of mineral prices represents a substantial risk which no amount of planning or technical expertise can fully eliminate. In the event gold prices decline or remain low for prolonged periods of time, we might be unable to develop our properties, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial performance and cash flows. 15 We do not maintain insurance with respect to certain high-risk activities, which exposes us to significant risk of loss. Mining operations generally involve a high degree of risk. Hazards such as unusual or unexpected formations or other conditions are often encountered. Midway may become subject to liability for pollution, cave-ins or hazards against which it cannot insure or against which it cannot maintain insurance at commercially reasonable premiums. Any significant claim would have a material adverse effect on Midway's financial position and prospects. Midway is not currently covered by any form of environmental liability insurance, or political risk insurance, since insurance against such risks (including liability for pollution) may be prohibitively expensive. Midway may have to suspend operations or take cost interim compliance measures if Midway is unable to fully fund the cost of remedying an environmental problem, if it occurs. We may not be able to obtain all required permits and licenses to place any of our properties into production. Our current and future operations, including development activities and commencement of production, if warranted, require permits from governmental authorities and such operations are and will be governed by laws and regulations governing prospecting, development, mining, production, exports, taxes, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, land use, environmental protection, mine safety and other matters. Companies engaged in property exploration and the development or operation of mines and related facilities generally experience increased costs, and delays in production and other schedules as a result of the need to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permits. We cannot predict if all permits which we may require for continued exploration, development or construction of mining facilities and conduct of mining operations will be obtainable on reasonable terms if at all. Costs related to applying for and obtaining permits and licenses may be prohibitive and could delay our planned exploration and development activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions. Parties engaged in mining operations may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the mining activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. Amendments to current laws, regulations and permits governing operations and activities of mining companies, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have a material adverse impact on our operations and cause increases in capital expenditures or production costs or reduction in levels of production at producing properties or require abandonment or delays in development of new mining properties. We are subject to significant governmental regulations, which affect our operations and costs of conducting our business. Our current and future operations are and will be governed by laws and regulations, including: ·laws and regulations governing mineral concession acquisition, prospecting, development, mining and production; ·laws and regulations related to exports, taxes and fees; ·labor standards and regulations related to occupational health and mine safety; ·environmental standards and regulations related to waste disposal, toxic substances, land use and environmental protection; and ·other matters. Companies engaged in exploration activities often experience increased costs and delays in production and other schedules as a result of the need to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permits. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permits may result in enforcement actions, including the forfeiture of claims, orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities requiring operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment or costly remedial actions. We may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of our mineral exploration activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of such laws, regulations and permits. Existing and possible future laws, regulations and permits governing operations and activities of exploration companies, or more stringent implementation, could have a material adverse impact on our business and cause increases in capital expenditures or require abandonment or delays in exploration. Our activities are subject to environmental laws and regulations that may increase our costs of doing business and restrict our operations. All phases of our operations are subject to environmental regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner which will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. These laws address emissions into the air, discharges into water, management of waste, management of hazardous substances, protection of natural resources, antiquities and endangered species and reclamation of lands disturbed by mining operations. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations and future changes in these laws and regulations may require significant capital outlays and may cause material changes or delays in our operations and future activities. It is possible that future changes in these laws or regulations could have a significant adverse impact on our properties or some portion of our business, causing us to re-evaluate those activities at that time. 16 U.S. Federal Laws The Comprehensive Environmental, Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), and comparable state statutes, impose strict, joint and several liability on current and former owners and operators of sites and on persons who disposed of or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances found at such sites. It is not uncommon for the government to file claims requiring cleanup actions, demands for reimbursement for government-incurred cleanup costs, or natural resource damages, or for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by hazardous substances released into the environment. The Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), and comparable state statutes, govern the disposal of solid waste and hazardous waste and authorize the imposition of substantial fines and penalties for noncompliance, as well as requirements for corrective actions. CERCLA, RCRA and comparable state statutes can impose liability for clean-up of sites and disposal of substances found on exploration, mining and processing sites long after activities on such sites have been completed. The Clean Air Act, as amended, restricts the emission of air pollutants from many sources, including mining and processing activities. Our mining operations may produce air emissions, including fugitive dust and other air pollutants from stationary equipment, storage facilities and the use of mobile sources such as trucks and heavy construction equipment, which are subject to review, monitoring and/or control requirements under the Clean Air Act and state air quality laws. New facilities may be required to obtain permits before work can begin, and existing facilities may be required to incur capital costs in order to remain in compliance. In addition, permitting rules may impose limitations on our production levels or result in additional capital expenditures in order to comply with the rules. The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) requires federal agencies to integrate environmental considerations into their decision-making processes by evaluating the environmental impacts of their proposed actions, including issuance of permits to mining facilities, and assessing alternatives to those actions. If a proposed action could significantly affect the environment, the agency must prepare a detailed statement known as an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). The United States. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), other federal agencies, and any interested third parties will review and comment on the scoping of the EIS and the adequacy of and findings set forth in the draft and final EIS. This process can cause delays in issuance of required permits or result in changes to a project to mitigate its potential environmental impacts, which can in turn impact the economic feasibility of a proposed project. The Clean Water Act (CWA), and comparable state statutes, impose restrictions and controls on the discharge of pollutants into waters of the United States. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the EPA or an analogous state agency. The CWA regulates storm water mining facilities and requires a storm water discharge permit for certain activities. Such a permit requires the regulated facility to monitor and sample storm water run-off from its operations. The CWA and regulations implemented thereunder also prohibit discharges of dredged and fill material in wetlands and other waters of the United States unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. The CWA and comparable state statutes provide for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for unauthorized discharges of pollutants and impose liability on parties responsible for those discharges for the costs of cleaning up any environmental damage caused by the release and for natural resource damages resulting from the release. The Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) and the Underground Injection Control (UIC) program promulgated thereunder, regulate the drilling and operation of subsurface injection wells. The EPA directly administers the UIC program in some states and in others the responsibility for the program has been delegated to the state. The program requires that a permit be obtained before drilling a disposal or injection well. Violation of these regulations and/or contamination of groundwater by mining related activities may result in fines, penalties, and remediation costs, among other sanctions and liabilities under the SWDA and state laws. In addition, third party claims may be filed by landowners and other parties claiming damages for alternative water supplies, property damages, and bodily injury. Nevada Laws At the state level, mining operations in Nevada are also regulated by the Nevada Department of Conservation and Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Protection. Nevada state law requires mine operators to hold Nevada Water Pollution Control Permits, which dictate operating controls and closure and post-closure requirements directed at protecting surface and ground water. In addition, operators are required to hold Nevada Reclamation Permits. These permits mandate concurrent and post-mining reclamation of mines and require the posting of reclamation bonds sufficient to guarantee the cost of mine reclamation. If we are required to carry out unanticipated reclamation work, our financial position could be adversely affected. Other Nevada regulations govern operating and design standards for the construction and operation of any source of air contamination and landfill operations. Any changes to these laws and regulations could have an adverse impact on our financial performance and results of operations by, for example, requiring changes to operating constraints, technical criteria, fees or surety requirements. 17 Legislation has been proposed that would significantly affect the mining industry. Members of the United States Congress have repeatedly introduced bills which would supplant or alter the provisions of the United States General Mining Law of 1872 (the “General Mining Law”). If enacted, such legislation could change the cost of holding unpatented mining claims and could significantly impact our ability to develop mineralized material on unpatented mining claims. Such bills have proposed, among other things, to either eliminate or greatly limit the right to a mineral patent and to impose a federal royalty on production from unpatented mining claims. Although we cannot predict what legislated royalties might be, the enactment of these proposed bills could adversely affect the potential for development of unpatented mining claims and the economics of existing operating mines on federal unpatented mining claims. Passage of such legislation could adversely affect our financial performance Regulations and pending legislation governing issues involving climate change could result in increased operating costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to various climate change interest groups and the potential impact of climate change. Legislation and increased regulation regarding climate change could impose significant costs on us, our venture partners and our suppliers, including costs related to increased energy requirements, capital equipment, environmental monitoring and reporting and other costs to comply with such regulations. Any adopted future climate change regulations could also negatively impact our ability to compete with companies situated in areas not subject to such limitations. Given the emotion, political significance and uncertainty around the impact of climate change and how it should be dealt with, we cannot predict how legislation and regulation will affect our financial condition, operating performance and ability to compete. Furthermore, even without such regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about potential impacts on climate change by us or other companies in our industry could harm our reputation. The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would be particular to the geographic circumstances in areas in which we operate. These may include changes in rainfall and storm patterns and intensities, water shortages, changing sea levels and changing temperatures. These impacts may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations. Our business is subject to evolving corporate governance and public disclosure regulations that have increased both our compliance costs and the risk of noncompliance, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. We are subject to changing rules and regulations promulgated by a number of governmental and self-regulated organizations, including the SEC, the NYSE Amex, and the Financial Accounting Standards Board. These rules and regulations continue to evolve in scope and complexity and many new requirements have been created in response to laws enacted by Congress, making compliance more difficult and uncertain. For example, on July 21, 2010, Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) with increased disclosure obligations for public companies and mining companies in the United States. Our efforts to comply with the Dodd-Frank Act and other new regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Land reclamation requirements for our properties may be burdensome and expensive. Although variable depending on location and the governing authority, land reclamation requirements are generally imposed on mineral exploration companies (as well as companies with mining operations) in order to minimize long term effects of land disturbance. Reclamation may include requirements to: ·control dispersion of potentially deleterious effluents; ·treat ground and surface water to drinking water standards; and ·reasonably re-establish pre-disturbance land forms and vegetation. In order to carry out reclamation obligations imposed on us in connection with our potential development activities, we must allocate financial resources that might otherwise be spent on further exploration and development programs. We plan to set up a provision for our reclamation obligations on our properties, as appropriate, but this provision may not be adequate. If we are required to carry out unanticipated reclamation work, our financial position could be adversely affected. 18 Competition in the mining industry is intense, and we have limited financial and personnel resources with which to compete. Competition in the mining industry for desirable properties, investment capital and personnel is intense. Numerous companies headquartered in the United States, Canada and elsewhere throughout the world compete for properties on a global basis. We are an insignificant participant in the gold mining industry due to our limited financial and personnel resources. We presently operate with a limited number of personnel and we anticipate that we will compete with other companies in our industry to hire additional qualified personnel which will be required to successfully operate any potential mine and mill site. We may be unable to attract the necessary investment capital or personnel to fully explore and if warranted, develop our properties and be unable to acquire other desirable properties. We will require significant additional capital to fund our business plan. We will be required to expend significant funds to determine if additional proven and probable mineral reserves exist at our properties, to continue exploration and if warranted, develop our existing properties and to identify and acquire additional properties to diversify our property portfolio. We have spent and will be required to continue to expend significant amounts of capital for drilling, geological and geochemical analysis, assaying and feasibility studies with regard to the results of our exploration. We may not benefit from some of these investments if we are unable to identify commercially exploitable mineralized material. Our ability to obtain necessary funding for these purposes, in turn, depends upon a number of factors, including the status of the national and worldwide economy and the price of gold and other precious metals. Capital markets worldwide have been adversely affected by substantial losses by financial institutions, caused by investments in asset-backed securities. We may not be successful in obtaining the required financing, or if we can obtain such financing, such financing may not be on terms that are favorable to us. Failure to obtain such additional financing could result in delay or indefinite postponement of further mining operations or exploration and development and the possible partial or total loss of our potential interest in our properties. Joint ventures and other partnerships may expose us to risks. Our Spring Valley property is currently under an option to joint venture and, in the future, we may enter into joint ventures or other partnership arrangements with other parties in relation to the exploration, development and production of certain of the properties in which we have an interest. Joint ventures can often require unanimous approval of the parties to the joint venture or their representatives for certain fundamental decisions such as an increase or reduction of registered capital, merger, division, dissolution, amendments of constating documents, and the pledge of joint venture assets, which means that each joint venture party may have a veto right with respect to such decisions which could lead to a deadlock in the operations of the joint venture or partnership. Further, we may be unable to exert control over strategic decisions made in respect of such properties. Any failure of such other companies to meet their obligations to us or to third parties, or any disputes with respect to the parties’ respective rights and obligations, could have a material adverse effect on the joint ventures or their properties and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial performance, cash flows and the price of our common shares. Our directors and officers may have conflicts of interest as a result of their relationships with other companies. Our directors and officers are also directors, officers or shareholders of other companies that are similarly engaged in the business of acquiring, developing and exploiting natural resource properties. For example, Daniel Wolfus, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director, also serves as a director for Melkior Resources Inc. and EMC Metals Corp. Consequently, there is a possibility that our directors and/or officers may be in a position of conflict in the future. We may experience difficulty attracting and retaining qualified management to meet the needs of our anticipated growth, and the failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We are dependent on a relatively small number of key employees, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, our President and Chief Operating Officer and our Chief Financial Officer. The loss of any officer could have an adverse effect on Midway. We have no life insurance on any individual, and we may be unable to hire a suitable replacement for them on favorable terms, should that become necessary. Our results of operations could be affected by currency fluctuations. Our properties are all located in the United States and most costs associated with these properties are paid in U.S. dollars. There can be significant swings in the exchange rate between the U.S. and Canadian dollar. There are no plans at this time to hedge against any exchange rate fluctuations in currencies. Title to our properties may be subject to other claims, which could affect our property rights and claims. There are risks that title to our properties may be challenged or impugned. Most of our properties are located in Nevada and may be subject to prior unrecorded agreements or transfers or native land claims and title may be affected by undetected defects. There may be valid challenges to the title of our properties which, if successful, could impair development and/or operations. This is particularly the case in respect of those portions of the our properties in which we hold our interest solely through a lease with the claim holders, as such interest is substantially based on contract and has been subject to a number of assignments (as opposed to a direct interest in the property). 19 Several of the mineral rights to our properties consist of "unpatented" mining claims created and maintained in accordance with the General Mining Law. Unpatented mining claims are unique property interests, and are generally considered to be subject to greater title risk than other real property interests because the validity of unpatented mining claims is often uncertain. This uncertainty arises, in part, out of the complex federal and state laws and regulations under the General Mining Law. Also, unpatented mining claims are always subject to possible challenges by third parties or validity contests by the federal government. The validity of an unpatented mining or mill site claim, in terms of both its location and its maintenance, is dependent on strict compliance with a complex body of U.S. federal and state statutory and decisional law. In addition, there are few public records that definitively determine the issues of validity and ownership of unpatented mining claims. Should the federal government impose a royalty or additional tax burdens on the properties that lie within public lands, the resulting mining operations could be seriously impacted, depending upon the type and amount of the burden. Our properties and operations may be subject to litigation or other claims. From time to time our properties or operations may be subject to disputes which may result in litigation or other legal claims. We may be required to assert or defend against these claims which will divert resources and management time from operations. The costs of these claims or adverse filings may have a material effect on our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Shares We believe that we may be a “passive foreign investment company” for the current taxable year which would likely result in materially adverse United States federal income tax consequences for United States investors. We generally will be designated as a “passive foreign investment company” under the meaning of Section 1297 of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (a “PFIC”) if, for a tax year, (a) 75% or more of our gross income for such year is “passive income” (generally, dividends, interest, rents, royalties, and gains from the disposition of assets producing passive income) or (b) if at least 50% or more of the value of our assets produce, or are held for the production of, passive income, based on the quarterly average of the fair market value of such assets. United States shareholders should be aware that we believe we were classified as a PFIC during our tax year ended December 31, 2011, and based on current business plans and financial expectations, believe that we may be a PFIC for the current and future taxable years. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a United States person holds our securities, it would likely result in materially adverse United States federal income tax consequences for such United States person. The potential consequences include, but are not limited to, re-characterization of gain from the sale of our securities as ordinary income and the imposition of an interest charge on such gain and on certain distributions received on our common shares. Certain elections may be available under U.S. tax rules to mitigate some of the adverse consequences of holding shares in a PFIC. Our share price may be volatile and as a result you could lose all or part of your investment. In addition to volatility associated with equity securities in general, the value of your investment could decline due to the impact of any of the following factors upon the market price of our common share: ·Changes in the worldwide price for gold; ·Disappointing results from our exploration efforts; ·Decline in demand for our common stock; ·Downward revisions in securities analysts' estimates or changes in general market conditions; ·Technological innovations by competitors or in competing technologies; ·Investor perception of our industry or our prospects; and ·General economic trends. In the last 12 months, the price of our stock on the TSX.V has ranged from a low of $1.38 to a high of $2.99, and on the NYSE AMEX has ranged from a low of $1.41 to a high of $3.03. In addition, stock markets in general have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations and the market prices of securities have been highly volatile. These fluctuations are often unrelated to operating performance and may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. As a result, you may be unable to resell your shares at a desired price. We have never paid dividends on our common shares. We have not paid dividends on our common shares to date, and we may not be in a position to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. Our ability to pay dividends will depend on our ability to successfully develop one or more properties and generate earnings from operations. Further, our initial earnings, if any, will likely be retained to finance our operations. Any future dividends will depend upon our earnings, our then-existing financial requirements and other factors, and will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors. 20 We are subject to the continued listing criteria of the NYSE Amex and the TSX Venture Exchange (“TSX.V”) and our failure to satisfy these criteria may result in delisting of our common shares. Our common shares are currently listed on the NYSE Amex and the TSX.V. In order to maintain the listing, we must maintain certain share prices, financial, and share distribution targets, including maintaining a minimum amount of shareholders’ equity and a minimum number of public shareholders. In addition to objective standards, the NYSE Amex and the TSX.V may delist the securities of any issuer if, in its opinion, the issuer’s financial condition and/or operating results appear unsatisfactory; if it appears that the extent of public distribution or the aggregate market value of the security has become so reduced as to make continued listing on the NYSE Amex or TSX.V inadvisable; if the issuer sells or disposes of principal operating assets or ceases to be an operating company; if an issuer fails to comply with the listing requirements of the NYSE Amex or TSX.V; if an issuer’s common shares sell at what the NYSE Amex or the TSX.V considers a “low selling price” and the issuer fails to correct this via a reverse split of shares after notification by the NYSE Amex or TSX.V; or if any other event occurs or any condition exists which makes continued listing on the NYSE Amex or TSX.V, in their opinion, inadvisable. If the NYSE Amex or the TSX.V delists our common shares, investors may face material adverse consequences, including, but not limited to, a lack of trading market for our securities, reduced liquidity, decreased analyst coverage of our securities, and an inability for us to obtain additional financing to fund our operations. If we raise additional funding through equity financings, then our current shareholders will suffer dilution. We believe the only realistic source of future funds presently available to us is through the sale of equity capital. Any sale of equity capital will result in dilution to existing shareholders. The only other alternative for the financing of further exploration would be the offering by us of an interest in our properties to be earned by another party or parties carrying out further exploration thereof. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 