Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business Mutual and Perrigo have filed ANDAs for single-ingredient, extended-release formulations of guaifenesin with the FDA. If the FDA approves either of these ANDAs or another ANDA filed by a third party for generic versions of our products, we may face more direct competition, which could negatively impact our sales. On August 23, 2006, we received notice from Mutual that they had submitted an ANDA for 600 mg and 1200 mg single-ingredient, extended-release formulations of guaifenesin. On October 4, 2006, we sued Mutual for patent infringement based on Mutual’s ANDA filing, and on March 21, 2007, we entered into an agreement with Mutual settling that litigation. According to the terms of the settlement agreement, if Mutual obtains FDA approval of its 600 mg ANDA product, we have granted Mutual a license allowing it to sell generic 600 mg product commencing July 1, 2012, subject to certain exceptions in the event the FDA approves a third party ANDA for the 600 mg product. Additionally, Mutual may be able to sell generic versions of 1200 mg guaifenesin and guaifenesin combination products if the FDA approves a third party ANDA for a 1200 mg or combination product. The settlement agreement with Mutual does not prevent third parties from filing an ANDA that seeks to sell generic versions of our products and asserts that our patents are not infringed, invalid or unenforceable. On August 20, 2007, we received notice from Perrigo that they had submitted and received FDA acceptance of the filing of an ANDA for a single-ingredient, extended-release formulation of guaifenesin. The drug related to this ANDA could be a generic competitor or licensed as a branded competitor of Mucinex SE. Perrigo has asserted that its proposed products do not infringe our patents that protect Mucinex SE, or alternatively that certain of our patent claims are not valid. We have not decided what course of action we will take in order to protect our intellectual property. We may accept Perrigo’s assertion that its products do not infringe our patents or we may determine that its products do, in fact, infringe our patents. Additionally, we are unable to evaluate Perrigo’s claim that its products meet the ANDA bioequivalence approved standards, and we are unable to predict when or if the FDA will approve Perrigo’s ANDA. In connection with the FDA’s approval of our Mucinex SE NDA, the FDA required that we meet rigorous scientific standards. We believe the FDA should apply these same rigorous scientific standards to Perrigo’s products, but there can be no assurance that the FDA will apply such stricter standards. We intend to vigorously defend our exclusive market position for Mucinex SE. We may not be successful, however, in maintaining our exclusive market position and can offer no assurance as to the outcome of Perrigo’s ANDA filing. If the FDA approves Perrigo’s ANDA, then our competitive position could be weakened and we may face stronger and more direct competition, which would negatively impact our business and operating results. Furthermore, the approval and launch of a generic competitor to Mucinex SE may trigger certain rights that Mutual has under our March 21, 2007 Settlement and License Agreement with Mutual. Such approval may also encourage Perrigo or others to file ANDAs covering products that compete with other of our adult oral-solid Mucinex products and products that combine guaifenesin with other ingredients. As a result, we may face greater competition from more competitors across our line of extended-release guaifenesin products, which could have a material adverse impact on our revenues, profitability and cash flows. 21 Table of Contents If another third party successfully challenges our patents and obtains FDA approval of a proposed generic product, our competitive position could be weakened, and we may face stronger and more direct competition, which could negatively impact our business and operating results. Such potential competition could have a material adverse impact on our revenues, profitability and cash flows. If the FDA approves generic products that compete with any of our products, sales of our products may be adversely affected. Our patents will not protect our products if competitors devise ways of making products that compete with ours without legally infringing our patents. The FDCA and FDA regulations and policies provide incentives to manufacturers to create modified, non-infringing versions of a drug in order to facilitate the approval of ANDAs for generic substitutes. These same types of incentives encourage manufacturers to submit NDAs that rely on literature and clinical data not prepared for or by such manufacturers. Manufacturers might only be required to conduct a relatively inexpensive study to show that their product has the same active ingredient(s), dosage form, strength, route of administration, and conditions of use (labeling) as our product and that the generic product is absorbed in the body at the same rate and to the same extent as our product, a comparison known as bioequivalence. Such products would be significantly less costly than ours to bring to market and could lead to the existence of multiple lower-priced competitive products, which would substantially limit our ability to obtain a return on the investments we have made in those products. Although generic pharmaceuticals must meet the same quality standards as branded pharmaceuticals, companies that produce generic equivalents are generally able to offer their products at lower prices. After the introduction of a generic competitor, a significant percentage of the sales of a branded product are typically lost to sales of the generic product. Accordingly, competition from generic equivalents could have a material adverse impact on our revenues, profitability and cash flows. We face substantial competition that may prevent us from maintaining or increasing market share for our existing products and gaining market acceptance of our future products. Our competitors may develop or commercialize products before or more successfully than us. Our competitors may develop products that are superior to ours or may more effectively market products that are competitive with ours. We believe that our Mucinex and Delsym products compete primarily with products with strong brand awareness marketed by large pharmaceutical companies, such as: • The Procter & Gamble Company (Dayquil®, Nyquil®, Vicks 44®, and Vicks Sinex®); • McNeil Consumer and Specialty Pharmaceuticals, a division of McNeil-PPC, Inc., which is an operating company of Johnson & Johnson (Tylenol®, Children’s Motrin®, Sudafed®, Benadryl®, PediaCare® and Children’s Tylenol®); • Wyeth (Robitussin®, Dimetapp® and Advil Cold and Sinus®); • Novartis Consumer Health, a division of Novartis AG (Theraflu®, Triaminic®, Comtrex® and 4Way®); • Schering-Plough Corp. (Claritin®, Coricidin® HBP, Drixoral® and Afrin®); • Bayer AG (Alka Seltzer Plus® and Aleve Cold and Sinus®); • Matrixx Initiatives, Inc. (Zicam® and Nasal Comforttm); and • Airborne, Inc. (Airborne®). We also face substantial competition from companies that market private label brands to our largest customers, which are typically sold at lower prices than our products. We are aware that some private label brand companies have begun to market products containing immediate-release guaifenesin in tablet form; however, we do not believe any long-acting guaifenesin-based products have been introduced in the OTC market. 22 Table of Contents With respect to all of our existing and future drug products, regardless of whether we market such products in the prescription or OTC market, we will compete with companies working to develop products and technologies that are more effective, safer or less costly than our products and technologies. Our competitors may also obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their products more rapidly than us, have larger or more skilled sales forces to promote their products and develop more comprehensive protection for their technologies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do. Moreover, additional mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical industry may result in our competitors having an even greater concentration of resources. We may not be able to maintain market acceptance of our products or successfully introduce new products if our competitors develop different or more advanced products, bring such products to market before we do or market their products more effectively in the OTC and prescription markets. With respect to our current products and our future OTC products, we also compete for brand recognition and product availability at retail stores. In addition, we compete with our competitors on price. Advertising, promotion, merchandising, packaging, and the timing of new product introductions and line extensions have a significant impact on consumer buying decisions and, as a result, on our sales. The large pharmaceutical companies we compete against in the OTC market have considerably greater financial resources than we do and likely spend more on trade promotions and advertising. These competitors also likely benefit from greater purchasing power, stronger vendor relationships and broader distribution channels. Sales of our products also affect in-store position, display space and inventory levels in retail outlets. If we are not able to maintain sufficient inventory levels of our products, maintain or improve in-store positioning of our products in retail stores, conduct effective advertising campaigns and other consumer and professional promotional programs, or maintain distribution and supply arrangements on competitive terms, we risk losing market share to our competitors in the OTC market. We depend heavily on the success of two of our existing products, Mucinex SE and Mucinex DM, and the strength of the Mucinex brand. If we are unable to continue to successfully commercialize Mucinex SE and Mucinex DM and build the Mucinex and Delsym brands with the introduction of new products, our results of operations and future prospects will suffer. Sales of Mucinex SE accounted for approximately 39.8%, 66.3% and 73.3% of our revenue in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Sales of Mucinex DM accounted for approximately 28.5%, 24.8% and 23.9% of our revenue in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Sales of our other Mucinex products, including Mucinex D and the Mucinex line of products for children, accounted for approximately 17.3% and 8.1% of our revenue in fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively. Sales of Delsym products accounted for approximately 14.6% of our revenue for fiscal 2007. In the near term, we anticipate that our ability to generate revenues and establish our Mucinex and Delsym brands will depend largely on the continued success of Mucinex SE and Mucinex DM and the successful growth of Mucinex D, the Mucinex line of products for children, Delsym and future products that utilize the Mucinex and Delsym brand names. Any failure or delay in our efforts to successfully commercialize our products could have a negative impact on our revenues and ability to execute our business strategy. We rely on two suppliers for guaifenesin, the active ingredient we require to manufacture Mucinex SE, Mucinex DM, Mucinex D, and the maximum strength versions of these products, and we have historically had difficulty obtaining the amount of guaifenesin we have required. We also rely on two suppliers for dextromethorphan, the additional active ingredient in Mucinex DM. Currently, we obtain all of the raw guaifenesin for Mucinex SE, Mucinex DM, Mucinex D and the maximum strength versions of these products from two suppliers, Boehringer Ingelheim and Delta. We entered into a new agreement with Boehringer Ingelheim in July 2006, which lasts through June 2011, and obligates Boehringer Ingelheim to supply us with a minimum of 500 metric tons of guaifenesin per contract year. According to the terms of our agreement with Boehringer Ingelheim, if we do not purchase at least the contractual amount of guaifenesin in any 12-month period, we must purchase 100% of our oral-solid guaifenesin requirements from Boehringer Ingelheim. Although Boehringer Ingelheim has had difficulty in the 23 Table of Contents past supplying us with the amount of guaifenesin we have requested, they have advised us that they are confident in their ability to meet their guaifenesin obligations for the remainder of the contract term. Under our agreement with Boehringer Ingelheim, they have also committed to using their commercially reasonable efforts to supply us with guaifenesin in excess of the contractual amount if we request such additional supply, but they have no obligation to provide us with such additional amounts. We currently also purchase guaifenesin from Delta, which the FDA has approved to supply the guaifenesin we use in Mucinex SE. Even with the Boehringer Ingelheim supply, we expect to continue to purchase additional guaifenesin from Delta for use in products for which Delta guaifenesin is qualified to be used. If Boehringer Ingelheim and Delta have difficulty supplying us with our requirements for guaifenesin, we may be unable to produce sufficient quantities of Mucinex SE, Mucinex DM, Mucinex D and the maximum strength versions of these products to meet demand. We rely on two suppliers to provide us with dextromethorphan, the additional active ingredient in Mucinex DM. Our original supplier reduced its production of dextromethorphan in 2004 and indicated that it intended to exit the business. In January 2006, this supplier agreed to provide us with an additional supply of dextromethorphan. In December 2006, the FDA approved a second supplier of dextromethorphan. We believe these two suppliers will provide us with sufficient quantities of dextromethorphan to meet our manufacturing needs. If these suppliers have difficulty providing us with our requirements for dextromethorphan, we may be unable to produce sufficient quantities of Mucinex DM to meet demand. We currently have one approved supplier of codeine, which we believe will be able to meet our demand if the FDA approves Mucinex with Codeine, and we are seeking FDA approval of a secondary supplier. If we do not qualify a secondary supplier for codeine, or if our existing supplier is unable or unwilling to provide us with sufficient supply, we will not be able to meet commercial demand for Mucinex with Codeine. A limited number of manufacturers operating under cGMP regulations are capable of manufacturing guaifenesin, dextromethorphan, pseudoephedrine or codeine to our specifications. We may be unable to utilize alternative manufacturing sources for these ingredients or to obtain such manufacturing on commercially reasonable terms or on a timely basis. Any transfer of our sources of supply to other manufacturers will require the satisfaction of various regulatory requirements, which could cause us to experience significant delays in receiving adequate supplies of guaifenesin, dextromethorphan, pseudoephedrine, codeine or all of these ingredients. Any delays in the manufacturing process may adversely impact our ability to meet commercial demand on a timely basis, which would negatively impact our revenues, reputation and business strategy. We rely on one manufacturing facility to manufacture most aspects of our adult oral-solid Mucinex products. We have limited experience manufacturing our own products and may experience difficulties with our manufacturing operations. On July 31, 2006, we repurchased our manufacturing facility and operations in Fort Worth. We rely on this one facility to manufacture most aspects of our adult oral-solid Mucinex products, including Mucinex SE, Mucinex DM and Mucinex D. If we experience difficulties with our manufacturing operations, our ability to meet customer demand for these products could adversely impact our business and revenues. Additionally, because we lack manufacturing experience, we could experience production delays and difficulties in maintaining and expanding our manufacturing operations, including difficulties: • maintaining production yields; • maintaining quality control; • maintaining costs; • hiring and retaining qualified personnel; and • complying with the FDA’s cGMP regulations and guidelines. If we encounter such difficulties in maintaining our manufacturing facility, our ability to manufacture our products will be limited, which could seriously harm our business and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents We recently acquired the Delsym product line. If we are unable to effectively integrate and market products under the Delsym brand, our results of operations could suffer. On June 12, 2006, we consummated the acquisition of certain rights and assets related to the manufacture and sale of the Delsym product line from UCB. As a result of this acquisition, we may experience: • difficulties in integrating the Delsym product line into our existing business; • delays in realizing the benefits of the Delsym product line acquisition; • diversion of our management’s time and attention from other business concerns; • higher costs of integration than we anticipated; • difficulties in retaining key employees who are necessary to manage the Delsym product line; or • difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies throughout our product lines. In connection with this acquisition, we entered into supply agreements with UCB pursuant to which UCB will manufacture the Delsym products for us. As a result, we are vulnerable to any interruptions in our supply from UCB. If UCB is unable to supply enough product to meet the demand for Delsym products, our results of operations may suffer. Further, we may not be successful in our marketing of the Delsym product line and we can offer no assurance that this acquisition will be profitable. We rely on Catalent to perform certain aspects of the manufacture and packaging of Mucinex SE, Mucinex DM, Mucinex D, and the maximum strength versions of these products. We do not have the manufacturing capacity to manufacture our Delsym products, our Mucinex line of products for children or our Mucinex nasal spray products and rely on other manufacturers to manufacture those products. If those manufacturers are unable to supply enough product to meet our customers’ demand, our results of operations may suffer. We rely on Catalent, formerly known as Cardinal Health, to perform certain aspects of the manufacture and packaging of Mucinex SE, Mucinex DM, Mucinex D, and the maximum strength versions of these products. We rely on a single third party, UCB, to manufacture the Delsym product line, and we rely on several other manufacturers to manufacture our Mucinex line of products for children and Mucinex nasal spray products. If our demand increases and we are unable to increase manufacturing capacity or unable to obtain additional capacity on reasonable economic terms to meet that demand, our revenues and operating results may be negatively impacted. The addition of capacity on unfavorable terms could also affect our revenue and profitability. In addition, any damage to, or disruption at, our manufacturers’ facilities could halt production of our products and materially harm our business. Reliance on third party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we performed all aspects of the manufacturing process, including: • the possibility that third parties may not comply with the FDA’s cGMP regulations, other regulatory requirements and quality assurance; • the possible breach of manufacturing agreements by third parties due to factors beyond our control; and • the possibility of termination or nonrenewal of an agreement by a third party manufacturer, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. In the event of a supply disruption or a deterioration in our product quality from a third party manufacturer, we would have to rely on alternative manufacturing sources or identify and qualify new manufacturers. We may not be able to identify or qualify new manufacturers in a timely manner or obtain a sufficient allocation of their capacity to meet our requirements. In addition, alternative vendors must comply 25 Table of Contents with product validation and stability testing, which may involve additional manufacturing expense, delay in production or required regulatory approvals. Any resulting delays in meeting demand could negatively impact our inventory levels, sales, profitability, and reputation. We cannot ensure that the FDA’s removal from the market of the existing prescription long-acting guaifenesin combination products similar to Mucinex DM and Mucinex D will result in increased sales of Mucinex DM or Mucinex D. Additionally, other companies may receive FDA approval and introduce products into the OTC market containing long-acting guaifenesin that are competitive with our products. As described more fully under Item 1. Business — Government Regulation in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, following its approval of Mucinex SE, the FDA took enforcement action to remove all existing long-acting, single-ingredient guaifenesin products from the market, pursuant to its draft compliance policy guide articulating the FDA’s existing informal policy regarding drugs marketed in the United States that do not have required FDA approval. We believe that sales of Mucinex SE increased as a result of the FDA’s action, which caused Mucinex SE to be the only drug of its kind approved by the FDA for marketing and sale in the United States. On May 25, 2007, the FDA announced that companies must also stop manufacturing effective as of August 27, 2007, and distributing via interstate commerce as of November 26, 2007, unapproved time-released dosage forms containing guaifenesin. This action will result in the removal from the market of all existing, long-acting guaifenesin and dextromethorphan combination products similar to Mucinex DM, and all existing, long-acting guaifenesin and pseudoephedrine combination products similar to Mucinex D. We can offer no assurance that this action will result in increased sales of our Mucinex DM and Mucinex D products. In addition, as described more fully under the heading “Government Regulation” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, based on our patent position and regulatory requirements, we estimate that the process of developing and obtaining the necessary FDA approvals for competitive long-acting guaifenesin products would take two to three years from the start of the process. We believe that competitors may have already begun the process of developing and obtaining FDA approval for products competitive with Mucinex SE or our other products. As a result, the effective market exclusivity that we currently enjoy for Mucinex SE, and will enjoy once the FDA’s recent enforcement action becomes effective for Mucinex DM and Mucinex D, may not continue. The FDA’s approval of competitive long-acting guaifenesin OTC products would slow our growth and adversely affect our results of operations. Many of our products and product candidates rely on guaifenesin, which is an expectorant. If our competitors develop a superior expectorant, our products and our patented technology may be rendered obsolete. Guaifenesin is a fundamental component in most of our marketed products and many of our product candidates. Guaifenesin and the other active ingredients in our products and product candidates have been used for many years. Our competitors may develop new chemicals or compounds that render guaifenesin, our patented delivery system or our products obsolete. We can offer no assurance that our development efforts will be able to lead or keep pace with discoveries or technological advances that yield superior compounds or products or that we will recover our investment in our products before any such advancements render them obsolete. We depend on a limited number of customers for a large portion of our sales, and demands made by, or the loss of, one or more of these customers could significantly reduce our margins or sales and adversely affect our business and financial results. For fiscal 2007, our top five and top ten customers accounted for an aggregate of approximately 57.7% and 73.7% of our gross sales, respectively. CVS, Walgreens, and Wal-Mart/Sam’s Club each accounted for greater than 10% of our gross sales for fiscal 2007. In future periods, we expect that our top five and top ten customers will, in the aggregate, continue to account for a large portion of our sales. In addition, retailers have demanded, and may continue to demand, increased service and other accommodations, as well as price concessions. As a result, we may face downward pressure on our prices and increased expenses to meet these demands, which would reduce our margins. Given the growing trend toward consolidation of retailers, we 26 Table of Contents expect demands by customers and the concentration of our sales in a small number of customers to increase. The loss of one or more of our top customers, any significant decrease in sales to these customers, pricing concessions or other demands made by these customers, or any significant decrease in our retail display space in any of these customers’ stores could reduce our sales and margins and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse publicity associated with us or our products could have a material adverse effect on us. We are highly dependent upon consumer perceptions of us, our products, and the safety and quality of our products. We could be adversely affected if we or our product brands are subject to negative publicity. We could also be adversely affected if any of our products or any similar products distributed by other companies prove to be, or are asserted to be, harmful to consumers. Also, because of our dependence upon consumer perceptions, any adverse publicity associated with illness or other adverse effects resulting from consumers’ use or misuse of our products, or any similar products distributed by other companies, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Product liability lawsuits could divert our resources, result in substantial liabilities and reduce the commercial potential of our products. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the manufacturing, testing and marketing of drugs and related products. These lawsuits may divert the attention of our management from pursuing our business strategy and may be costly to defend. In addition, if we are held liable in any of these lawsuits, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be forced to limit or forgo further commercialization of those products. Although we maintain general liability and product liability insurance in an amount that we believe is reasonably adequate to insulate us from potential claims, this insurance may not fully cover potential liabilities. In addition, our inability to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercial production and sale of our products, which could adversely affect our business. If we fail to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement for our products by Medicaid, our business may be adversely affected. Additionally, many state Medicaid programs do not cover the costs of our products and we cannot ensure that any Medicaid programs will continue to reimburse us for our products. The availability and levels of reimbursement by Medicaid affect the market for both our current and future products. Medicaid continually attempts to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare by challenging the prices charged for pharmaceuticals. For example, we are obligated to provide rebates to the state Medicaid programs on sales of our products to Medicaid beneficiaries. We expect to continue to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of our current and future products due to potential increases in rebates and other downward trends in reimbursement aimed at reducing healthcare costs, as well as legislative proposals. Medicaid does not generally cover the costs of OTC products. However, 28 state Medicaid programs (three of which require prior approval of reimbursement from the state Medicaid program, or PA) have covered and continue to cover the cost of Mucinex SE, 22 state Medicaid programs (three of which require PA) have covered and continue to cover the cost of Mucinex DM, 18 state Medicaid programs (three of which require PA) have covered and continue to cover the cost of Mucinex D, 13 state Medicaid programs (two of which require PA) have covered and continue to cover the cost of Mucinex Children’s Mini-Melts, 21 state Medicaid programs (three of which require PA) have covered and continue to cover the cost of Mucinex Children’s Liquid, and 16 state Medicaid programs (two of which require PA) have covered and continue to cover the cost of Delsym. We can offer no assurance that any Medicaid program will cover any of our new products or will continue to cover our current products. 27 Table of Contents Seasonal fluctuations in demand for our products may cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. We expect retail demand for our products to be higher between October 1 and March 31 due to the prevalence of cough, cold and flu symptoms during that period. As a result, our shipments, and therefore revenues, are expected to be higher between July 1 and March 31 to support the retail demand through the cough, cold and flu season. We generally expect our revenues during the quarter ended June 30 to be lower than the other quarters. In addition, fluctuations in the severity of the annual cough, cold and flu season may cause our operating results to vary from year to year. Due to these seasonal fluctuations in demand, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results for any other quarter or for the entire year. Risks Related to Product Development We recently completed our phase IIb erdosteine clinical trial and are reviewing the final results of this trial. If we determine the results were unsuccessful, or if the FDA or other regulatory agencies do not accept or approve the results of such studies, our erdosteine product may not successfully come to market and our business prospects may suffer. In May of 2005, we in-licensed erdosteine, a mucoregulator that is currently approved for use in Europe, South Africa and Asia for symptomatic treatment of respiratory infections, bronchitis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. In December 2006, we completed our phase IIb erdosteine clinical trial and are reviewing the final analysis of the trial’s results. The preliminary results suggested that the two different erdosteine treatment groups do not seem to break statistically from the placebo. However, subsequent analysis has resulted in more promising data. We hope to conduct a meeting with the FDA before the end of calendar year 2007 to discuss these clinical results, before we determine the ultimate outcome of the erdosteine program. We cannot assure you that these trials will ultimately be successful or that the FDA or other relevant regulatory agencies will accept the results and approve or clear erdosteine for sale. Further, we continue to evaluate the potential financial benefits and costs of erdosteine. If we determine that the results of this trial would prevent regulatory approval or the costs associated with attaining regulatory approval of erdosteine exceed the potential financial benefits, or if the projected development timeline is inconsistent with our investment horizon, we may choose to discontinue the development of erdosteine. We may not be successful in our efforts to expand our portfolio of products. We intend to expand our portfolio of products by: • developing and commercializing line extensions of Mucinex by combining long-acting guaifenesin with other ingredients to address various respiratory conditions; • developing and commercializing our Mucinex products for children; • developing and commercializing line extensions of Delsym; • developing and commercializing prescription products to address additional segments of the respiratory market using our platform technology for extended-release guaifenesin; and • acquiring or in-licensing additional technologies and additional pharmaceutical products or product candidates in the respiratory therapeutics market. Our failure to expand our portfolio of products in both the prescription and OTC respiratory therapeutic markets, or any unexpected delays in launching new products, will impair our ability to execute our growth strategy, which will negatively affect our financial position and results of operations. 28 Table of Contents We intend to conduct clinical trials on product candidates we develop or acquire in the future, which will be costly, take years to complete and may not ultimately be successful. As part of our business strategy, we intend to pursue product candidates that must undergo preclinical studies and clinical trials as a condition to regulatory approval. Preclinical studies and clinical trials are expensive and, because we do not have the ability to conduct our own clinical trials, we will hire third parties to run the trials, which will lessen our control over the process. Clinical trials may take several years to complete and may not be successful. The commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including: • our inability to obtain materials sufficient for use in preclinical studies and clinical trials; • delays in patient enrollment and variability in the number and types of patients available for clinical trials; • difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data; • inability to demonstrate effectiveness of product candidates during clinical trials; • unforeseen safety issues or side effects; • governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements, policy and guidelines; or • varying interpretation of data by the FDA. Although we have not been required to conduct extensive clinical trials to obtain FDA approval of our existing products, we expect that many of our future product candidates may require extensive clinical trials. We may not successfully complete clinical trials for our product candidates. Accordingly, we may not receive the regulatory approvals needed to market our product candidates. Any failure or delay in commencing or completing clinical trials or obtaining regulatory approvals for our product candidates would delay or prevent the commercialization of such product candidates, which could negatively impact our financial position. Regulatory Risks Our products are subject to recalls even after receiving FDA regulatory clearance or approval. Recalls could harm our reputation and business. We are subject to ongoing reporting regulations that require us to report to the FDA if our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. These reports can lead to stricter safety warnings on product labeling, voluntary company recalls or withdrawal of the product from the market. In addition, if we become aware of adverse event reports, manufacturing defects or insufficient labeling, we may voluntarily elect to recall our products. On April 2, 2007, we initiated a voluntary recall of specific lots of Children’s Mucinex liquid products. We recalled these lots because of possible confusion in determining the proper dose of medication for children, which could have occurred due to the dosing cup included in the product packaging. Although we do not expect the April 2007 recall to have a material adverse effect on our business, any product recalls, which we must report to the FDA, would divert managerial and financial resources and could harm our reputation with our customers and with the health care professionals who recommend our products. Products approved for marketing remain subject to regulation. Complying with such regulation can be costly, and failure to comply could result in a loss of approvals or suspension of product sales. We are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and, to a lesser extent, by other applicable federal agencies, such as the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, the Environmental Protection Agency, and state government agencies. The FDCA, the Controlled Substances Act and other federal statutes and rules regulate the testing, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, record keeping, promotion, distribution, and sale of our products. If we or our manufacturers fail to comply with those regulations, we could become subject to significant penalties or 29 Table of Contents claims, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results or our ability to conduct our business. In addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may adversely affect our revenue and the marketing of our products. In accordance with the FDCA and FDA regulations, our manufacturing processes and the manufacturing processes of our third party manufacturers must also comply with cGMP. The FDA inspects our facilities and the facilities of our third party manufacturers periodically to determine if we and our third party manufacturers are complying with cGMP. If the FDA implements additional regulations with which we and our third party manufacturers have to comply, our expenses would increase. Additionally, if we or our third party manufacturers fail to comply with federal or state regulations, we could be required to: • suspend manufacturing operations; • change product formulations; • suspend the sale of products with non-complying specifications; • initiate product recalls; or • change product labeling, packaging or advertising or take other corrective action. Any of these actions could materially and adversely affect our financial results. Further, our failure to comply with the FDA, FTC or state regulations relating to our product claims and advertising may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or otherwise materially and adversely affect our marketing strategy and product sales. We may not be able to obtain marketing approval for any of the products resulting from our development efforts and failure to obtain these approvals could materially harm our business. The FDA must approve all new drugs before they can be marketed and sold in the United States. The FDA typically requires successfully completing extensive clinical trials and demonstrating manufacturing capability to obtain approval, as described more fully under Item 1. Business — Government Regulation in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Clinical development is expensive, uncertain and lengthy, often taking a number of years for an applicant to file a NDA and for the FDA to approve it. Of the large number of drugs in development, only a small percentage result in the submission of a NDA to the FDA, and the FDA approves even fewer for commercialization. We may need to successfully address a number of challenges in order to complete the development of our future products. For example, to obtain marketing approval for a new product candidate, we and our third party manufacturers will be required to consistently produce the active pharmaceutical ingredient in commercial quantities and of specified quality on a repeated basis. This requirement is referred to as process validation. If we are unable to satisfy this process validation requirement for a future product candidate, through our third party manufacturers or otherwise, we will not receive approval to market such product. In addition, the FDA and other regulatory agencies may apply new standards for safety, manufacturing, packaging, and distribution of future product candidates. Complying with such standards may be time consuming or expensive and could result in delays in our obtaining marketing approval for future product candidates, or possibly preclude us from obtaining such approval. Such a delay could also increase our commercialization costs, possibly materially. Furthermore, our future products may not be effective or may prove to have undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities or other characteristics that may preclude us from obtaining regulatory approval or prevent or limit commercial use. Even if we do obtain regulatory approval, such regulatory approvals may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market a product, which may limit the size of the market for such product. 30 Table of Contents The manufacture and packaging of pharmaceutical products such as our Mucinex and Delsym products are subject to FDA requirements. If we or our third party manufacturers fail to satisfy these requirements, our product development and commercialization efforts may be materially harmed. As indicated above, an approved drug and its manufacturer are subject to continual review, including review and approval of the manufacturing facilities. Changes in the manufacturing process or procedure, including a change in the location where the product is manufactured or a change of a third party manufacturer, may require prior FDA review or approval or revalidation of the manufacturing process and procedures in accordance with cGMP. This review or revalidation may be costly and time consuming and could delay or prevent the launch or delivery of a product. To effect a change of site, we and the manufacturer must transfer the relevant manufacturing technology to the new site. This process is detailed and time consuming. If we change the manufacturing site, the FDA will likely require us to perform analytical tests to demonstrate that changing the manufacturing location will not affect the characteristics of the product. If we cannot establish to the satisfaction of the FDA that the products manufactured at the new site are equivalent to those manufactured at the prior site, we may not obtain, or may be delayed in obtaining, approval to manufacture our products at the new site. In addition, if we elect to manufacture products at the facility of another third party, we would need to ensure that the new facility and the manufacturing process are in compliance with cGMP. Any such new facility would be subject to a preapproval inspection by the FDA. Furthermore, in order to obtain approval by the FDA of new products, we need to complete testing on both the active pharmaceutical ingredient and on the finished product in the packaging we propose for commercial sales. This testing includes testing of stability, identification of impurities and testing of other product specifications by validated test methods. If the required testing is delayed or produces unfavorable results, we may not obtain approval to launch the product or the FDA may delay its approval. Our current and future products may be associated with certain transient side effects. If we or others identify additional, more severe side effects associated with our current or future products, we may be required to withdraw our products from the market, perform lengthy additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products, any of which would hinder or preclude our ability to generate revenues. Our current guaifenesin-based products may be associated with mild and transient side effects including upset stomach, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, headache, dizziness, confusion, skin rash (including hives), constipation, and drowsiness. Mucinex D and Children’s Mucinex Cold Liquid may additionally be associated with unusual paleness, increased sweating, weakness, trouble in sleeping, nervousness, restlessness, fast or pounding heartbeat, trembling and difficulty urinating. Our other Mucinex products for children are not expected to be associated with additional side effects or problems than those associated with our other guaifenesin-based products. Our Delsym products may be associated with confusion, constipation, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, nausea or vomiting, and stomach pain. The Mucinex nasal sprays’ topical side effects may include nasal burning, nasal stinging, sneezing, increased discharge; may cause nasal congestion to recur or worsen; overuse may cause rebound congestion; potential for misuse if rebound congestion develops; and if absorbed, systemic side effects may include fast, irregular or pounding heartbeat, headache, lightheadedness, nervousness, trembling and trouble in sleeping. If our Mucinex with Codeine is approved for marketing by the FDA, its side effects may include nausea, vomiting, sedation, dizziness, constipation, allergic reactions, central nervous system depression, respiratory depression, circulatory depression; toxicity may include confusion, convulsions, hallucinations, mental depression, hepatotoxicity, and paradoxical excitation in children. If we or others identify side effects after any of our products are on the market: • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approvals; • we may be required to reformulate our products, conduct additional clinical trials, change the labeling of our products, or implement changes to obtain new approvals of manufacturers’ facilities; • we may recall the affected products from the market; • we may experience a significant drop in sales of the affected products; 31 Table of Contents • our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; • we may become the target of lawsuits, including class action suits; and • we may be required to withdraw our products from the market and not be able to re-introduce them into the market. Any of these events could harm or prevent sales of the affected products or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing or marketing these products, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. The sale of products containing pseudoephedrine is restricted by additional federal and state government regulations, which may negatively impact our sales of Mucinex D. If the sale of dextromethorphan undergoes similar restrictions, it could negatively impact sales of our products containing dextromethorphan. Our Mucinex D product contains pseudoephedrine HCl, a FDA-approved ingredient for the relief of nasal congestion. We understand that pseudoephedrine has been used in the illicit manufacture of methamphetamine, a dangerous and addictive drug. On March 9, 2006, President Bush signed into law the Combat Methamphetamine Epidemic Act of 2005, which provides that among other things: (i) effective April 9, 2006, consumers are prohibited from purchasing more than (a) 3.6 grams of pseudoephedrine base per day, which equates to four packages of Mucinex D 18-count and two packages of Mucinex D 36-count per day, and (b) 9.0 grams of pseudoephedrine base per month, which equates to ten packages of Mucinex D 18-count and five packages of Mucinex D 36-count per month; and (ii) effective September 30, 2006, retailers are required to (a) place products containing pseudoephedrine, including Mucinex D and Maximum Strength Mucinex D, behind the counter or in locked cabinets in the main section of their store, and (b) keep an electronic record of all pseudoephedrine sales. We believe that, to date, most states have also enacted regulations concerning the sale of pseudoephedrine, some of which include more restrictive sales limits than the new federal regulations, including limiting the amount of these products that can be purchased at one time, making pseudoephedrine a prescription product, or requiring that these products be located behind the counter, with the stated goal of deterring the illicit/illegal manufacture of methamphetamine. We believe that these restrictions have and will continue to negatively impact our sales of Mucinex D and will negatively impact Maximum Strength Mucinex D. If additional FDA-approved ingredients such as dextromethorphan, undergo similar restrictions, this could negatively impact sales of our products containing dextromethorphan. Risks Related to Managing Growth We depend on our key personnel, and if we are not able to retain those individuals or recruit additional technical personnel, our business will suffer. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management. The continued service of our Chief Executive Officer and President, Michael J. Valentino, is critical to our success. Mr. Valentino is the only member of our management team with whom we have entered into an employment agreement, but he may terminate it on short or no notice. In addition, Mr. Valentino’s employment agreement expires August 2008, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to renew Mr. Valentino’s employment agreement. Further, we can offer no assurance that we will be able to hire a new highly qualified Chief Executive Officer in a timely manner. The loss of any of our other executive officers, including our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, Rita M. O’Connor; our Chief Operating Officer, Robert D. Casale; our Executive Vice President, Sales and Corporate Accounts, John S. Thievon; our Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Compliance Officer and Secretary, Walter E. Riehemann; our Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Peter D. Wentworth, Ph.D.; or our Senior Vice President of Research and Development, Helmut H. Albrecht, M.D. could cause disruption in our business. We do not carry key man life insurance on any of our key personnel. In addition, our growth has required us to hire a significant number of qualified technical personnel. Intense competition exists among other companies and research and academic institutions for qualified personnel. If we cannot continue to attract and retain, on acceptable terms, the qualified personnel necessary 32 Table of Contents for the continued development of our business, we may not be able to sustain our operations or grow our business. We may undertake strategic acquisitions of technologies and products. Integration of such technologies and products will involve a variety of costs, and we may never realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions. We intend to pursue opportunities to acquire technologies, brands and products that would allow us to leverage our professional sales force or our marketing and development expertise or enhance our product portfolio or brand recognition in the OTC and prescription markets. We have limited experience in identifying and completing such acquisitions. Further, acquisitions typically entail many risks, including risks related to the integration of the technologies and products. In attempting to integrate such technologies and products, we may experience unexpected integration costs and delays, which may divert management and employee attention and disrupt our ability to develop and introduce new products. If we are not able to successfully integrate our acquisitions, we may not be able to realize the intended benefits of the acquisition. As a result of acquiring products or entering into other significant transactions, we have experienced, and will likely continue to experience, significant charges to earnings for acquisitions and related expenses, including transaction costs, closure costs or acquired in-process product development charges. These costs may include substantial fees for investment bankers, attorneys, accountants, and financial printing costs. Charges that we may incur in connection with acquisitions could adversely affect our results of operations for particular quarterly or annual periods. In addition, we may lack the required funds or resources to carry out such acquisitions. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Our U.S. patent no. 6,372,252 is the subject of a request for reexamination, which the United States Patent and Trade Mark Office, or USPTO, granted upon petition to the USPTO Director. If the USPTO cancels our patent or substantially narrows the claims of our patent such that it no longer protects our products from competition, our business will be materially harmed. On April 20, 2005, an anonymous third party filed a request for reexamination with the USPTO of our U.S. patent no. 6,372,252, which contains claims covering a long-acting guaifenesin product, including an immediate-release portion and an extended-release portion that yields a certain pharmacokinetic profile. On June 23, 2005, the USPTO denied the request for reexamination and found that the third party did not raise a substantial new question of patentability based on prior art. On July 22, 2005, the third party who filed the request for reexamination sought review of the USPTO’s denial of its request for reexamination by petition to the Director of the USPTO. The USPTO advised us on August 18, 2005 that the Director had granted the petition and ordered reexamination, and on December 29, 2005, the USPTO advised us of its initial, non-final determination to reject the claims of our U.S. Patent no. 6,372,252. Under typical procedural practices at the USPTO, this preliminary finding was made prior to our presentation of arguments in favor of affirming the claims under this patent. On March 21, 2006, we presented our arguments to the USPTO examiner in a personal interview, and on March 23, 2006, we filed a written response to the USPTO’s initial determination setting out those arguments. On June 20, 2006, the USPTO advised us that it had decided to continue to reject some claims of our U.S. Patent No. 6,372,252 but to confirm that several claims of this patent were patentable. In response to this communication from the USPTO, which is designated a final action, on August 21, 2006, we filed a request for reconsideration of some aspects of this action. On September 28, 2006, the USPTO responded to this request for reconsideration, adhering to its prior positions and declining to enter certain proposed amendments. On November 20, 2006, we filed a notice of appeal. On January 8, 2007, the USPTO confirmed that five of the 58 claims in the reexamination were patentable, and on January 22, 2007, we filed an appeal brief with the USPTO regarding the claims that the USPTO had continued to reject. Under a reexamination proceeding and upon completion of the proceeding, the USPTO may leave the patent in its present form, narrow the scope of the claims of the patent or cancel all of the claims of the patent. Pursuant to this reexamination, the USPTO will reconsider the patentability of our delivery system for 33 Table of Contents guaifenesin. From this point forward the reexamination could take up to three additional years, including the potential for an additional appeal should the pending appeal be unsuccessful. We intend to vigorously defend our patent position, and we believe we will prevail in the reexamination process. We may not be successful, however, in maintaining our patent or the scope of its claims during reexamination and can offer no assurance as to the outcome of a reexamination proceeding. If the USPTO does not confirm our patent or substantially narrows the claims of our patent following a reexamination, then our competitive position could be weakened and we may face stronger and more direct competition, which would negatively impact our business and operating results. If our patent position does not adequately protect our products and future products, others will be able to compete against us more directly, which may harm our business. Our patent portfolio includes two U.S. patents, eight foreign patents and several patent applications. Our most significant patents are currently our two U.S. patents, which contain claims covering: a long-acting guaifenesin product, including an immediate-release portion and an extended-release portion that yields a certain pharmacokinetic profile; and the combination of a long-acting guaifenesin product, including an immediate-release portion and an extended-release portion, with another active pharmaceutical ingredient that yields a certain pharmacokinetic profile. The active ingredients in our products and most of our product candidates, including guaifenesin, dextromethorphan and pseudoephedrine, are chemical compounds that have been in existence for many years and are not covered by patents that claim these chemical compounds. Our patents cover a formulation of a product that delivers guaifenesin with a bi-phasic release pattern. They do not and will not contain compound claims for the chemicals in these products. We can offer no assurance that our patents will effectively exclude competitors from introducing similar or equivalent products. Our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to obtain additional patents in the United States, maintain our existing patent position and obtain and maintain adequate protection for the other intellectual property incorporated into our products. Our patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated, or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of term of patent protection we may have for our products. We can offer no assurance that we will receive patents for any of our pending patent applications or any patent applications we may file in the future. In addition, our patents may not afford us protection against competitors with similar technology. Because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions claimed in issued patents or pending patent applications or that we were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in these patent applications. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode or negate any competitive advantage we may have, which could harm our business and financial results. If we are unable to protect the intellectual property rights related to our brands, our ability to compete effectively in the markets for our products could be negatively impacted. A significant part of our business strategy is to position Mucinex and our Mucinex line of products for children as preferred brands for relief of respiratory congestion for the OTC cough, cold, allergy and sinus market and to position Delsym as a preferred brand for cough suppression. We believe that familiarity with our brands is an important competitive advantage and that the growth and sustainability of our market share for our product lines will depend to a significant extent upon the goodwill associated with our related trademarks and trade names. We intend to use the trademarks and trade names on our products to convey that the products we sell are “brand name” products, and we believe consumers ascribe value to our brands. We own the material trademark and trade name rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and sale of our products. This ownership prevents our competitors or new entrants to the market from using our brand names. Therefore, we view trademark and trade name protection as critical to our business. Although most of our trademarks are registered in the United States, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade name protection. If we were to lose the exclusive right to use the Mucinex or Delsym brand name or other 34 Table of Contents brand names we establish or acquire in the future, our sales and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We could also incur substantial costs to prosecute legal actions relating to the use of our trademarks and trade names, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, other parties may infringe on our property rights in our trademarks and trade names, which may dilute the value of our brands in the marketplace. Our competitors may also introduce brands that cause confusion with our brands in the marketplace, which could adversely affect the value that our customers associate with our brands and thereby negatively impact our sales. Any such infringement of our intellectual property rights would also likely result in a commitment of our time and resources to protect those rights through litigation or otherwise. In addition, third parties may assert claims against our trademark and trade name rights, and we may not be able to successfully resolve these claims. In such event, we may lose our ability to use the brand names that are the subject of these claims, which could have a material adverse impact on our sales and operating results. We could also incur substantial costs to defend even those claims that are not ultimately successful, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets and proprietary information, our technology and information may be used by others to compete against us. In addition to patented technology, we rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how. We seek to protect this information in part by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. If we do not adequately protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode or negate any competitive advantage we may have, which could harm our business and financial results. Legal proceedings or third party claims of intellectual property infringement may require us to spend time and money and could prevent us from developing or commercializing products. Our technologies, products or potential products in development may infringe rights under patents or patent applications of third parties. Third parties may own or control these patents and patent applications in the United States and abroad. These third parties could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, we could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing, or sales of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit. As a result of patent infringement claims, or to avoid potential claims, we may choose to seek, or be required to seek, a license from the third party and would most likely be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. This inability to enter into licenses could harm our business significantly. The pharmaceutical industry has experienced substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the USPTO and opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse 35 Table of Contents effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Risks Relating to Future Financing Needs We may need additional financing, which may be difficult to obtain. Our failure to obtain necessary financing or doing so on unattractive terms could adversely affect our marketing and development programs and other operations. We will require substantial funds to commercialize our products, launch new products, promote our brand, and conduct development, including preclinical testing and clinical trials, of our potential products. We believe that our existing credit facility and existing cash, coupled with cash flow from product sales, will be sufficient to fund our anticipated levels of operations through at least the next two years. However, our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the success of our commercialization of our products and the costs associated with related marketing, promotional and sales efforts; • the timing of new product launches, product development and advancement of other product candidates into development; • potential acquisitions or in-licensing of other products or technologies; • the timing of, and the costs involved in, obtaining regulatory approvals; • the cost of manufacturing activities, including raw material sourcing and regulatory compliance; and • the costs involved in establishing and protecting our patent, trademark and other intellectual property rights. Additional financing may not be available to us when we need it or on favorable terms. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing on a timely basis, we may be required to significantly curtail one or more of our marketing, development, licensing, or acquisition programs. We could be required to seek funds through arrangements with others that may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or products that we would otherwise pursue on our own. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our then-existing stockholders will experience dilution and the terms of any new equity securities may have preferences over our common stock. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price is volatile and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Our stock price is volatile. From our initial public offering in July 2005 through August 28, 2007, the trading price of our common stock has ranged from $21.50 to $49.75 per share. The stock market in general, and the market for specialty pharmaceutical companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, investors may not be able to sell their common stock at or above their respective purchase prices. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: • the regulatory status of potentially competitive products; • regulatory developments; • developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; • our ability to manufacture products to commercial standards; • public concern over our drugs; • litigation; • the departure of key personnel; 36 Table of Contents • future sales of our common stock; • variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; • investors’ perceptions and expectations of us; and • general economic, industry and market conditions. If there are substantial sales of our common stock, our stock price could decline. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. All of the shares sold in our initial public offering in July 2005, in our secondary offering in December 2005 and in our secondary offering in September 2006 are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the federal securities laws, unless purchased by our “affiliates” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. On August 18, 2006, we filed a registration statement on Form S-3 covering 10,025,235 shares of common stock held by GAMI Investments, Inc., GVI Holdings, Inc., SZ Investments, L.L.C., Tullis-Dickerson Capital Focus III, L.P., TD Origen Capital Fund, L.P., TD Lighthouse Capital Fund, L.P., and Perseus-Soros BioPharmaceutical Fund, L.P. We filed the registration statement pursuant to our existing contractual obligations to register the shares following the first anniversary of our initial public offering in July 2005. On September 15, 2006, we filed a prospectus supplement to our prospectus in our registration statement on Form S-3, with respect to the offer and sale of 3,000,000 shares of common stock, and an additional 450,000 shares of common stock sold solely to cover over-allotments, held by SZ Investments, L.L.C. and Perseus-Soros BioPharmaceutical Fund, L.P. We have registered approximately 3,243,310 and 2,737,802 shares of common stock that are authorized for issuance under our 1999 Long-Term Incentive Plan and 2005 Incentive Plan, respectively. After the completion of our initial public offering in July 2005, our board of directors decided not to grant any additional awards pursuant to the 1999 Long-Term Incentive Plan. As of August 27, 2007, 2,452,335 shares were subject to outstanding options, 972,765 of which are vested and exercisable. As of August 27, 2007, 125,169 restricted stock units and 251,301 performance shares were issued and outstanding, none of which are vested and exercisable. Because they are registered, the shares authorized for issuance under our stock plans can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to the restrictions imposed on our affiliates under Rule 144. Our executive officers, directors and major stockholders have the ability to control all matters submitted to stockholders for approval. Our executive officers, directors and stockholders who own more than 5% of our outstanding common stock, in the aggregate, currently beneficially own shares representing approximately 52.25% of our capital stock. As a result, if these stockholders choose to act together, they would have significant influence over all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, as well as our management and affairs. This concentration of voting power could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company on terms that other stockholders may desire. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and under Delaware law may prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to change our management and hinder efforts to acquire a controlling interest in us. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which investors might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • limitations on the removal of directors; 37 Table of Contents • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; and • the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions of our certificate of incorporation. In addition, absent approval of our board of directors, our bylaws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person who, together with its affiliates, owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Other than the $45 million cash dividend declared by our board of directors on June 2, 2005, we have not paid cash dividends and do not expect to pay dividends in the future, which means that our stockholders may not be able to realize the value of our shares except through sale. Other than the $45 million cash dividend declared by our board of directors on June 2, 2005, we have never declared or paid cash dividends. We expect to retain earnings for our business and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock at any time in the foreseeable future. Because we do not anticipate paying dividends in the future, a sale of shares likely is the only opportunity our stockholders will have to realize the value of our common stock. Our board of directors will decide whether to pay dividends on common stock from time to time in the exercise of its business judgment, subject to contractual restrictions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 