Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Company” for more detail. Under RCRA, CERCLA (Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act), and similar state programs, the owners of certain facilities that manage hazardous wastes are required to investigate and, if appropriate, remediate historic environmental contamination. All of our facilities are or may be subject to a corrective action program or other laws and regulations relating to environmental remediation, including projects relating to the reclamation of industrial properties. The U.S Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) is expected to propose regulations under the Clean Air Act in the near future aimed at reducing emissions of certain metals and volatile organic compounds into the air. In addition, laws have been passed in Texas, Virginia and other states that will reduce the amount of mercury in the scrap metal we recycle and thus the amount of mercury emitted from our plants. Additionally, the steel industry, automobile industry, automobile dismantlers, scrap metal recycling industry, states, and environmental groups are participating in an EPA-sponsored initiative to develop a nationwide, voluntary program to reduce the amount of mercury in scrap metal destined for recycling. We expect to participate in this program by contributing to an implementation fund and by developing and implementing company-specific means to strongly encourage our suppliers and others in the supply chain to participate in this voluntary program. The implementation of the Clean Air Act may cause additional environmental requirements, such as additional requirements resulting from revisions to national ambient air quality standards and designation of new nonattainment areas. These additional requirements may have significant impacts on us in the future, although whether and how they will affect us may not be determined for many years. We also may be affected if federal, state or local governments begin to regulate emissions of greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide. We cannot predict what requirements might be imposed on our operations or the timing of such requirements. Consequently, we are not able to evaluate the cost of future Clean Air Act requirements. 8 Table of Contents Our facilities also are subject to a variety of permitting requirements under the Clean Water Act, which restricts the type and amount of pollutants that may be discharged from regulated sources into receiving bodies of waters, such as rivers, lakes and oceans. Our facilities are designed to operate without discharging process wastewater. Our facilities are subject to, and in compliance with, storm water discharge permits issued under an EPA program that has been delegated to the states. In addition to the above matters, we may receive notices of violation relating to minor environmental matters from time to time in the ordinary course of business. We do not expect any material fines or penalties to arise from these items and none of these involve potential individual monetary sanctions in excess of $100,000. We intend to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environmental, health and safety matters, but since many of these requirements are subjective and therefore not quantifiable, are presently not determinable, or are likely to be affected by future legislation or rule making by government agencies, it is not possible to accurately predict the aggregate future costs of compliance and their effect on our operations, future net income or financial condition. Notwithstanding our intentions to comply with all legal requirements, if injury to persons or damage to property or contamination of the environment has been or is caused by the conduct of our business or hazardous substances or wastes used in, generated or disposed of by us, we may be liable for such injuries and damages, and be required to pay the cost of investigation and remediation of such contaminations. The amount of such liability could be material and we may incur material liability in connection with possible claims related to our operations and properties under environmental, health and safety laws. Principal Executive Offices and Additional Information Our principal executive offices are located at 300 Ward Road, Midlothian, Texas 76065. Our telephone number is (972) 775-8241 and our website is www.chapusa.com. We do not intend for information contained on our website to be part of this Annual Report. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available, free of charge, on the Investor Relations web page of our website under the caption “SEC Filings” promptly after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish such materials to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Information relating to our corporate governance including our Corporate Governance Guidelines and Bylaws, our Ethical Business Conduct Policy for all directors, officers, and employees, our Code of Ethics for CEO and Senior Financial Officers, and information concerning our directors, Committees of the Board, including Committee charters, and transactions in our securities by directors and executive officers, is available at our website under the captions “Corporate Governance” and “SEC Filings”. Paper copies of these filings and corporate governance documents are available to stockholders without charge by written request to Investor Relations, 300 Ward Road, Midlothian, Texas 76065. All materials that we file with the SEC are available at the SEC’s Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. All materials that we file with the SEC are also available at the website maintained by the SEC, http://www.sec.gov. 9 Table of Contents RECENT DEVELOPMENTS We were incorporated in Delaware on February 22, 2005, as a wholly-owned subsidiary of TXI to serve as the holding company for its steel business in anticipation of our spin-off. In anticipation of the spin-off, we and TXI engaged in the transactions described below. On June 25, 2005, TXI transferred all of the stock of its subsidiaries that were engaged in its steel business to us. These transactions were accounted for as a reorganization of entities under common control. As a result, the assets and liabilities transferred to us were recorded at historical cost. On July 6, 2005, TXI also contributed or transferred to us the real estate and transportation assets used in its steel business. We have assumed all liabilities arising out of the steel business and the transferred assets. On June 16, 2005, we entered into a senior secured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) which provides up to $150 million of available borrowings. On July 6, 2005, we borrowed $50 million under the Credit Facility. In addition, on July 6, 2005, we issued $300 million aggregate principal amount of 10% senior notes (the “Senior Notes”) due July 15, 2013. We used the net proceeds from the Credit Facility and Senior Notes to pay a cash dividend of $341.1 million to TXI on July 6, 2005. On July 29, 2005, the spin-off was completed and we became an independent, public company. TXI has no further ownership interest in us, and we have no ownership interest in TXI. In addition, we are not guarantors of any of TXI’s indebtedness nor is TXI a guarantor of any of our indebtedness. Our relationship with TXI is now governed by the terms of our separation and distribution agreement and the ancillary agreements described in that agreement. Among other things, the separation and distribution agreement provides that we and TXI will indemnify each other against certain liabilities. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below and all the other information contained in this Annual Report in evaluating us and our common stock. Any of the following risks, as well as additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below or elsewhere in this Annual Report. Risks Related to Our Spin-Off from TXI We have a limited history operating as an independent public company upon which you can evaluate us. We previously operated as wholly-owned subsidiaries of TXI since December 1997. As an independent public company following the spin-off, our ability to satisfy our obligations and maintain profitability is solely dependent on the future performance of the businesses we own and operate, and we will not be able to rely upon the capital resources and cash flows of those business lines remaining with TXI. In addition, our historical financial statements reflect the allocation to us of a portion of TXI’s cost for certain corporate functions, but they do not reflect the costs of being an independent public company. TXI no longer has an obligation to perform any corporate or public company functions for us. We have created our own, or engaged third parties to provide, corporate and public company functions to replace those previously performed by TXI. We may incur costs for these functions that are higher than the amounts reflected in our historical financial statements. 10 Table of Contents As a stand-alone company following the spin-off, our results may be different from those indicated by our historical financial statements. The historical financial information we have included in this Annual Report may not reflect what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been had we been an independent company during the periods presented or what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future, for the following reasons: • while our historical results of operations include all costs of our steel business, our historical costs and expenses are not necessarily indicative of the costs that would have been or will be incurred by us as an independent public company; • we have not made adjustments to our historical financial information to reflect changes that have occurred in our cost structure, financing and operations as a result of our spin-off from TXI; and • our historical effective tax rate may not be indicative of our future effective tax rate due to changes in tax laws and the mix of our earnings in the various states where we operate. Therefore, our historical financial statements may not be indicative of our future performance as an independent company. The spin-off could result in significant tax liability. The distribution of our common stock was conditioned upon TXI’s receipt of an opinion from Thompson & Knight LLP to the effect that, among other things, the distribution would qualify as a tax-free spin-off under section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), to TXI and its stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The opinion was based upon various factual representations and assumptions, as well as upon certain undertakings. We are not aware of any facts or circumstances that would cause the representations and assumptions to be untrue or incomplete in any material respect. If, however, any of those factual representations or assumptions were untrue or incomplete in any material respect, any undertaking was not complied with, or the facts upon which the opinion was based were materially different from the facts at the time of the distribution, the distribution may not qualify for tax-free treatment. Under current Internal Revenue Service policy, advance rulings will not be issued for certain significant aspects of spin-off transactions. Therefore, TXI did not apply for an advance ruling from the IRS with respect to the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the distribution. Opinions of counsel are not binding on the courts or the IRS, and the conclusions expressed in the opinion delivered to TXI could be challenged by the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”). If the spin-off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then, in general, TXI would be subject to tax as if it had sold our common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value. TXI’s stockholders would be treated as if they had received a taxable dividend equal to the fair market value of our common stock that was distributed to them, taxed as a dividend (without reduction for any portion of a TXI stockholder’s basis in its shares of TXI common stock) for U.S. federal income tax purposes and possibly for purposes of state and local tax law, to the extent of a TXI stockholder’s pro rata share of TXI’s current and accumulated earnings and profits (including any taxable gain of TXI with respect to the spin-off). It is expected the amount of any such taxes to TXI’s stockholders and TXI would be substantial. Although the taxes described above generally would be imposed on TXI and its stockholders, we would, in certain circumstances, be liable for all or a portion of such taxes. Our ability to engage in acquisitions and other strategic transactions is subject to limitations because we agreed to certain restrictions to comply with United States federal income tax requirements for a tax-free spin-off. Current U.S. tax law which applies to spin-offs generally creates a presumption that the spin-off would be taxable to TXI but not to its stockholders if we engage in, or enter into an agreement to engage in, a transaction (or series of transactions) that would result in a 50% or greater change by vote or by value in our stock ownership 11 Table of Contents during the four-year period beginning on the date that begins two years before the distribution date, unless it is established that the transaction (or a series of transactions) is not pursuant to a plan related to the spin-off. United States Treasury regulations generally provide that whether an acquisition transaction and a spin-off transaction are part of a plan is determined based on all of the facts and circumstances, including specific factors listed in the regulations. In addition, the regulations provide certain “safe harbors” for acquisition transactions that are not considered to be part of a plan. There are other restrictions imposed on us under current U.S. federal income tax laws for spin-offs and with which we will need to comply to preserve the favorable tax treatment of the distribution, such as continuing to own and manage our steel business and limitations on sales or redemptions of our common stock for cash or other property following the distribution. In connection with the spin-off, we entered into a tax sharing and indemnification agreement with TXI. In the tax sharing and indemnification agreement, we agreed that, among other things, we will not take any actions that would result in any tax being imposed on the spin-off. Further, we may not repurchase any of our stock for two years following the spin-off except in certain circumstances permitted by the IRS guidelines. We may, however, take certain actions prohibited by the tax sharing and indemnification agreement if we provide TXI with an unqualified opinion of tax counsel or a private letter ruling from the IRS, acceptable to TXI, to the effect that these actions will not affect the tax-free nature of the spin-off. These restrictions could substantially limit our strategic and operational flexibility, including our ability to finance our operations by issuing equity securities, make acquisitions using equity securities, repurchase our equity securities, raise money by selling assets or enter into business combination transactions. We may be required to satisfy certain indemnification obligations to TXI or may not be able to collect on indemnification rights from TXI. In the tax sharing and indemnification agreement, we agreed to indemnify TXI and its subsidiaries for any loss, including any adjustment to taxes of TXI, resulting from (1) any action or failure to act by us or any of our subsidiaries following the completion of the spin-off that would be inconsistent with or prohibit the spin-off from qualifying as a tax-free transaction to TXI under section 355 of the Code, (2) certain acquisitions of our equity securities or assets or those of certain of our subsidiaries, and (3) any breach of any representation or covenant given by us or our subsidiaries in the separation documents or in connection with the tax opinion delivered to TXI by Thompson & Knight LLP. Our indemnification obligations to TXI and its subsidiaries are not limited in amount or subject to any cap. Under the terms of the separation and distribution agreement, we and TXI each have agreed to indemnify each other after the spin-off with respect to the indebtedness, liabilities and obligations that will be retained by our respective companies. These indemnification obligations could be significant. The ability to satisfy these indemnities if called upon to do so will depend upon our future strength and the future financial strength of each of our companies. We cannot determine whether we will have to indemnify TXI for any substantial obligations. We also cannot be assured that, if TXI has to indemnify us for any substantial obligations, TXI will have the ability to satisfy those obligations to us. If we are required to indemnify TXI and its subsidiaries, officers and directors for any obligations under the circumstances set forth above, we may be subject to substantial liabilities that could exceed our net equity value at that time. Risks Related to Our Company We face significant competition, and some of our competitors have resources in excess of our available resources and less financial leverage than we do. We compete with domestic and international producers of steel products. Competition within the steel industry, both domestically and worldwide, is intense and is expected to remain so. We compete on the basis of price, quality and the ability to meet our customers’ product needs and delivery schedules. The highly competitive nature of the steel industry has at times exerted downward pressure on prices. 12 Table of Contents Due to the high fixed cost nature of our business, our operating results may be significantly affected by relatively small changes in production volumes. In addition, some of our competitors are larger, have greater financial resources and may have less financial leverage or lower cost structures than we do. As a result, these competitors may cope better with downward pricing pressure and adverse economic or industry conditions than we would. See “Business—Competition”. The availability and pricing of raw materials and energy could lower our results of operations and harm our financial condition. In the past our results of operations and financial condition have been, and may again in the future be, worsened by increases in raw material or energy costs, or their lack of availability. We have generally not entered into long-term contracts to satisfy our fuel and electricity needs or recycled steel scrap requirements. We do have one long-term scrap supply agreement with the company that leases and operates our Virginia shredder. If we are unable to meet our requirements for fuel, electricity or recycled steel scrap, we may experience interruptions in our production, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Prices for energy and scrap are subject to market forces largely beyond our control, including demand by U.S. and international steel producers, freight costs and speculation. A combination of a weak U.S. dollar and exceptionally strong global demand for scrap has caused the price of domestic scrap to dramatically increase over the past three years. Integrated steel producer competitors are not as dependent as we are on scrap as a major part of their raw material melt mix. This may give them a raw material cost advantage over mini-mills during periods of high scrap costs relative to the cost of blast furnace iron used by the integrated producers, even with the higher costs they must currently pay for iron ore, coke, coking coal and other raw materials used in their iron making processes. Our operations also require substantial amounts of other raw materials, including various types of alloys, refractories, oxygen, natural gas and electricity, the price and availability of which are also subject to market conditions. Price increases (to the extent we are not able to pass such increases on to our customers) or the disruption of the supply of these products could adversely affect our results of operations. Our debt could adversely affect our cash flow available to fund our business needs and have other consequences adverse to our business. Our Long-term Debt is approximately $300 million. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources—Impact of the distribution and separation from TXI.” Our debt could have important consequences. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, investments and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, the steel industry or the markets in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, even if necessary to maintain adequate liquidity. The terms of the indentures governing our Senior Notes, our Credit Facility and our other debt agreements will allow us to issue and incur additional debt upon satisfaction of certain conditions. If new debt is added to current debt levels, the related risks described above could increase. 13 Table of Contents We will require a significant amount of cash to service our debt. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on, or repay or refinance, our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures, depends largely upon the availability of financing through our bank credit facility and our future operating performance. Our future operating performance, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, our ability to borrow funds in the future to make payments on our debt will depend on our satisfaction of the covenants in our Credit Facility, our Senior Notes and our other debt agreements, and other agreements we may enter into in the future. Specifically, we will need to maintain certain financial ratios, including a leverage ratio and an interest expense coverage ratio. Although we generated $157.1 million and $78.1 million of net income for the years ended May 31, 2006 and 2005, we experienced net losses of $5.3 million, $64.1 million and $13.2 million or fiscal years 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. We cannot be assured we will continue to be profitable or that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our bank credit facility or from other sources in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service requirements, we may have to renegotiate the terms of our debt or obtain additional financing. We cannot be assured we will be able to refinance any of our debt, including our Credit Facility or our Senior Notes, or obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we were unable to obtain new financing under these circumstances, we would have to consider other options, such as: • sales of certain assets to meet our debt service obligations; • sales of equity; and • negotiations with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt. Our Credit Facility restricts, and the indentures governing the Senior Notes and the terms of any future debt may restrict, or market or business conditions may limit, our ability to do any of these things. If none of these options were available to us on reasonable terms, a default could occur under our debt agreements which could permit the lenders to accelerate any indebtedness outstanding under our debt agreements. The agreements governing our debt contain various covenants restricting our ability to prepay or repurchase our debt, otherwise limit our discretion in the operation of our business and could lead to acceleration of debt. Our financing agreements impose operating and financial restrictions on our activities. Our bank credit facility requires us to comply with or maintain certain financial tests and ratios, including a leverage ratio and an interest expense coverage ratio. Our Credit Facility also limits our ability to prepay or repurchase our Senior Notes in certain circumstances. Restrictions contained in these financing agreements also limit or prohibit our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to, among other things: • make certain investments; • incur additional debt or sell preferred stock; • create liens; • make dividend payments or other payments from subsidiaries to us; • engage in consolidations and mergers or sell or transfer assets; • engage in transactions with our affiliates; and • sell stock in our subsidiaries. 14 Table of Contents Various risks and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants and maintain financial tests and ratios. If we cannot comply with the financial covenants in our bank credit facility, we may not be able to borrow under this facility. In addition, failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing that debt. In addition, lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they make to supply us with further funds. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by these agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. We may not be able to obtain waivers or amendments of our financing agreements, if necessary, at acceptable terms or at all. We may incur substantial expenditures to comply with environmental laws which may adversely affect our results of operations and harm our financial condition. We are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other matters, air emissions, furnace dust disposal and stormwater discharge. We believe we are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. However, from time to time we receive claims from federal and state environmental regulatory agencies and entities asserting that we are or may be in violation of certain environmental laws and regulations. Based on our experience in dealing with such claims in the past and information currently available to us regarding any potential or outstanding claims, we believe that such claims will not have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Despite our compliance and experience, it is possible we could be held liable for future charges which might be material but are not currently known or estimable. In addition, changes in federal or state laws, regulations or requirements or discovery of currently unknown conditions could require additional expenditures by us, interrupt production or hinder our ability to build new or expand production facilities. Many of the raw materials, products and by-products associated with the operation of any industrial facility, including those for the production of steel, contain chemical elements or compounds that might be designated as hazardous. Our steel facilities generate, in the same manner as other similar steel plants in the industry, electric arc furnace (“EAF”) dust that contains zinc, lead, chromium and cadmium. The EPA has designated this EAF dust, which is collected in baghouses, as hazardous waste. We have contracts with reclamation facilities in Mexico pursuant to which such facilities receive the EAF dust generated by us and recover the metals from the dust for reuse, thus rendering the dust non-hazardous. In addition, we routinely investigate alternative reclamation technologies and have implemented processes for diminishing the amount of EAF dust generated. We purchase scrap steel from many sources. Much of the scrap is sorted and shredded at our plant sites. Although we screen incoming scrap for various contaminants, if we fail to detect radioactive or hazardous material, such materials could cause contamination of our equipment, land and products. We could incur significant costs to clean up the contamination and dispose of the contaminated material. The cost to clean up the contaminated material and the loss of revenue resulting from the lost production time could both be material. In addition, the “fluff” that remains after the steel and other valuable materials are removed from the scrap is deposited in landfills that we believe are operated by firms that properly dispose of the fluff. On occasion, we also recycle and dispose of hazardous wastes we generate in our plants, such as cleaning fluids, at hazardous waste recycling and disposal facilities. If a landfill or hazardous material recycler or disposal operator mismanages our fluff or other wastes in a way that creates an environmental hazard, we and all others who sent materials could become liable for cleanup costs, fines and other expenses many years after the disposal or recycling was completed. We intend to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment and health and safety matters, but since many of these requirements are subjective and therefore not quantifiable, are presently not determinable, or are likely to be affected by future legislation or rule making or regulatory interpretations by government agencies, it is not possible to accurately predict the aggregate future costs of compliance and their 15 Table of Contents effect on our operations, future net income or financial condition. Notwithstanding our intentions to comply with all legal requirements, if injury to persons or damage to property or contamination of the environment has been or is caused by the conduct of our business or hazardous substances or wastes used in, generated or disposed of by us, we may be liable for such injuries and damages, and be required to pay the cost of investigation and remediation of such contamination. The amount of such liability could be material, and we may incur material liability in connection with possible claims related to our operations and properties under environmental, health and safety laws. The requirements of complying with the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may strain our resources, and our internal control over financial reporting may not be sufficient to ensure timely and reliable external financial reports. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act”). These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, corporate governance standards and internal control over financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that management document and test our internal control over financial reporting and provide management’s conclusion in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending May 31, 2007, whether our internal control over financial reporting at May 31, 2007 is effective. To maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight will be required and we may need to devote financial resources, additional time and personnel to legal, financial and accounting activities to ensure our ongoing compliance with public company reporting requirements. We cannot be assured that we will be able to implement any required changes to correct possible material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting and sufficiently document and test the revised internal control procedures to make a positive conclusion as to the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting by May 31, 2007. Unexpected equipment failures, catastrophic events and scheduled maintenance may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns. Due to the high fixed cost nature of our business, interruptions in our production capabilities may cause our productivity and results of operations to decline significantly during the affected period. Our manufacturing processes are dependent upon critical pieces of equipment, such as our steel furnaces, continuous casters and rolling equipment, as well as electrical equipment, such as transformers. This equipment may, on occasion, be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures or damaged during accidents. In addition to equipment failures, our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or violent weather conditions. We may in the future experience material plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failures or catastrophic events. We also have scheduled shut-downs every 12 to 24 months to refurbish our steel production facilities. Any interruption in production capability may require us to make significant capital expenditures to remedy problems. In addition lost production time could have a negative effect on our profitability and cash flows. Implementation of our growth strategy has certain risks. As part of our growth strategy, we may expand existing facilities, build additional plants, acquire other steel assets, enter into joint ventures or form strategic alliances that we believe will expand or complement our existing business. If any of these transactions occur, they will likely involve some or all of the following risks: • the potential disruption of our ongoing business; • the diversion of resources and management’s time; • the inability of management to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; 16 Table of Contents • the difficulty of managing the operations of a larger company; • the risk of becoming involved in labor, commercial or regulatory disputes or litigation related to the new enterprise; • the risk of contractual or operational liability to joint venture participants or to third parties as a result of our participation; • the difficulty of competing for acquisitions and other growth opportunities with companies having greater financial resources than us; and • the difficulty of integrating the acquired operations and personnel into our existing business. Pursuing our growth strategy may be required for us to remain competitive, but we may not be able to complete any such transactions or obtain financing, if necessary, for such transactions on favorable terms. Future transactions may not improve the competitive position and business prospects as anticipated, and could reduce sales or profit margins, and, therefore, earnings if they are not successful. If our products and methods and the products and methods we license infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, our ability to compete in the market may be harmed. We cannot be assured our products or methods do not infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Infringement and other intellectual property claims and proceedings brought against us, whether successful or not, could result in substantial costs and harm our reputation. Such claims and proceedings can also distract and divert management and key personnel from other tasks important to the success of our business. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following: • cease selling our products or using our methods that incorporate the asserted intellectual property, which could adversely affect our revenue; • pay substantial damages for past use of the asserted intellectual property; and • obtain a license from the holder of the asserted intellectual property, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. We are a party to a number of licenses giving us rights to third-party intellectual property that is useful to our business. Our success will depend in part on the ability of our licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce our licensed intellectual property. Without protection for the intellectual property we license, other companies might be able to offer substantially identical products for sale and use substantially similar methods, which could adversely affect our competitive business position and harm our business prospects. Our change-in-control provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, and discourage a takeover, and may adversely affect our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of making more difficult or delaying attempts by others to obtain control of us, even when these attempts may be in the best interests of stockholders. Delaware law also imposes conditions on certain business combination transactions with “interested stockholders.” Prior to the spin-off, we adopted a preferred stock purchase rights plan to encourage anyone seeking to acquire us to negotiate with our board of directors prior to attempting a takeover. While the plan was designed to guard against coercive or unfair tactics to gain control of us, the rights have certain anti-takeover effects. The rights will cause substantial dilution to any person or group who attempts to acquire a significant amount of common stock without approval from our board of directors. As a result, the overall effect of the rights may be to render more difficult or discourage or delay any attempt to acquire us. Because we can redeem the rights, the rights will not interfere with a merger or other business combination approved by our board. See Item 5 “Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.” 17 Table of Contents We entered into a tax sharing and indemnification agreement with TXI under which we agreed that, among other things, we may not, except in certain specified transactions, redeem our equity securities (or those of certain of our subsidiaries) for two years following the spin-off. Notwithstanding these restrictions, we may take certain actions prohibited by these covenants if we provide TXI with an IRS ruling or an unqualified opinion of tax counsel, acceptable to TXI, to the effect that these actions will not affect the tax-free nature of the spin-off. The credit agreement governing our Credit Facility and the indentures governing our Senior Notes contain provisions that may require us to repay our borrowings under the Credit Facility and repay holders of our Senior Notes if a change of control occurs. These provisions and others that could be adopted in the future could deter unsolicited takeovers or delay or prevent changes in control or management of the Company, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. These provisions may limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. Risks Related to our Industry Our business is sensitive to economic cycles. A significant percentage of our sales are attributable to the overall level of construction activity since demand for structural steel is derived primarily from non-residential construction. Construction activity in this segment is cyclical and is influenced by prevailing economic conditions, including interest rate levels, inflation, consumer spending habits and employment. The demand for steel products is also generally affected by macroeconomic fluctuations in the U.S. and global economies. Fluctuations in the value of the dollar can be expected to affect our business because a strong U.S. dollar makes imported steel products less expensive, resulting in more imports into the U.S. by foreign competitors. Future economic downturns, stagnant economies or currency fluctuations could decrease the demand for our products or increase imports, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations by decreasing our volume of shipments, sales and profitability. Moreover, our industry is characterized by low backlogs, which means our results of operations are promptly affected by short term economic fluctuations. Excess global capacity and the availability of competitive substitute materials have, at times, resulted in intense competition and may, in the future, cause downward pressure on prices. The domestic and global steel industry has in the past been generally characterized by overcapacity, which can have a negative impact on domestic steel prices. Global overcapacity has sometimes resulted in high levels of steel imports into the United States, exerting downward pressure on domestic steel prices and resulting in, at times, a dramatic reduction in, or, in the case of many steel producers, the elimination of gross margins. In addition, in the case of certain product applications, we and other steel manufacturers compete with manufacturers of other materials, including plastic, aluminum, graphite composites, ceramics, glass, wood and concrete. Product substitution could also have a negative impact on demand for steel products and place downward pressure on prices. In recent years, imports of steel into the United States have adversely affected, and may again adversely affect, U.S. steel prices, which would impact our sales, margins and profitability. Excessive imports of steel into the United States have in recent years, and may again in the future, exerted downward pressure on U.S. steel prices and significantly reduce our sales, margins and profitability. U.S. steel producers compete with many foreign producers. Competition from foreign producers is typically strong, but it increases during some periods as a result of an excess of foreign steelmaking capacity, periodic weakening of the economies of certain foreign steelmaking countries, and a strong U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies. Economic difficulties in these countries or a reduction in demand for steel produced by these countries, when 18 Table of Contents those events occur, result in lower local demand for steel products in these countries and tends to encourage greater steel exports to the United States at depressed prices. In addition, while the U.S. dollar is currently relatively weak compared to historical averages, any recovery or increase in the U.S. dollar exchange rate relative to other currencies would improve the competitive position of foreign producers by making the prices of foreign imports more attractive. In addition, we believe the downward pressure on, and depressed levels of, U.S. steel prices in recent years have been, and may again in the future be, further exacerbated by imports of steel involving dumping and subsidy abuses by foreign steel producers. Some foreign steel producers are owned, controlled or subsidized by foreign governments. As a result, decisions by these producers with respect to their production, sales and pricing are often influenced to a greater degree by political and economic policy considerations than by prevailing market conditions or consideration of profit or loss. For example, between 1998 and 2001, when imports of structural and bar products increased dramatically, domestic steel producers, including us, were adversely affected by unfairly priced or “dumped” imported steel. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None 