ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, shareholders or prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors when evaluating DSW. If any of the events described below occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations and future growth prospects could suffer. Risks Relating to Our Business We intend to continue to open at least 30 new DSW stores per year from fiscal 2008 to fiscal 2010, which could strain our resources and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Our continued and future growth largely depends on our ability to successfully open and operate new DSW stores on a profitable basis. During fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, we opened 37, 29, and 29 new DSW stores, respectively. We intend to open at least 30 stores per year in each fiscal year from fiscal 2008 through fiscal 2010. As of February 2, 2008, we have signed leases for an additional 37 stores to be opened in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2009. During fiscal 2007, the average investment required to open a typical new DSW store was approximately $1.6 million. This continued expansion could place increased demands on our financial, managerial, operational and administrative resources. For example, our planned expansion will require us to increase the number of people we employ as well as to monitor and upgrade our management information and other systems and our distribution facilities. These increased demands and operating complexities could cause us to operate our business less efficiently, have a material adverse affect on our operations and financial performance and slow our growth. We may be unable to open all the stores contemplated by our growth strategy on a timely basis, and new stores we open may not be profitable or may have an adverse impact on the profitability of existing stores, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We intend to open at least 30 stores per year in each fiscal year from fiscal 2008 through fiscal 2010. However, we may not achieve our planned expansion on a timely and profitable basis or achieve results in new locations similar to those achieved in existing locations in prior periods. Our ability to open and operate new DSW stores successfully on a timely and profitable basis depends on many factors, including, among others, our ability to: • identify suitable markets and sites for new store locations; • negotiate favorable lease terms; • build-out or refurbish sites on a timely and effective basis; • obtain sufficient levels of inventory to meet the needs of new stores; • obtain sufficient financing and capital resources or generate sufficient cash flows from operations to fund growth; • open new stores at costs not significantly greater than those anticipated; • successfully open new DSW stores in regions of the United States in which we currently have few or no stores; • control the costs of other capital investments associated with store openings; • hire, train and retain qualified managers and store personnel; and • successfully integrate new stores into our existing infrastructure, operations, management and distribution systems or adapt such infrastructure, operations and systems to accommodate our growth. As a result, we may be unable to open new stores at the rates expected or at all. If we fail to successfully implement our growth strategy, the opening of new DSW stores could be delayed or prevented, could cost more than 10 Table of Contents anticipated and could divert resources from other areas of our business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that we open new DSW stores in our existing markets, we may experience reduced net sales in existing stores in those markets. As the number of our stores increases, our stores will become more concentrated in the markets we serve. As a result, the number of customers and financial performance of individual stores may decline and the average sales per square foot at our stores may be reduced. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have entered into Supply Agreements with Stein Mart, Gordmans and Filene’s Basement. If any of the agreements were to be terminated, it would decrease sales and could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our supply agreements are typically for multiple years with automatic renewal options as long as either party does not give notice of intent not to renew. For Stein Mart, Gordmans, and Filene’s Basement, our contractual termination dates are December 2009, February 2010, and January 2010, respectively. In addition, the agreements contain other provisions that may trigger an earlier termination. For fiscal 2007, the sales from our leased business segment represent over 12.5% of our total company sales. If any of the agreements with Stein Mart, Gordmans or Filene’s Basement were to be terminated, it could have a material adverse affect on our business and financial performance. We plan to launch an e-commerce business in the first half of fiscal 2008 which may not be successful and could adversely affect our results of operations or distract management from our core business. We plan to launch an e-commerce business to sell shoes and related accessories through our website in fiscal 2008. As of February 2, 2008, we have invested $26.3 million in capital for the development of this e-commerce business. In addition, we have entered into a ten-year lease agreement for space to serve as a fulfillment center for e-commerce distribution. The development and launch of such a business channel could cost more than expected, distract management from our core business, take business from our existing store base resulting in lower sales in our stores, or be unsuccessful. In addition, as this is a new business channel, we will be purchasing inventory based upon anticipated sales. In the event that our actual sales are lower than planned, we will likely need to take markdowns on inventory which will adversely affect gross margin. In the event that we spend more than anticipated, lose focus on our core business, impact sales in our existing store base, or are unsuccessful in the development or execution of an e-commerce business, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We rely on our good relationships with vendors to purchase better-branded merchandise at favorable prices. If these relationships were to be impaired, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient selection of merchandise at attractive prices, and we may not be able to respond promptly to changing fashion trends, either of which could have a material adverse affect on our competitive position, our business and financial performance. We do not have long-term supply agreements or exclusive arrangements with any vendors and, therefore, our success depends on maintaining good relations with our vendors. Our growth strategy depends to a significant extent on the willingness and ability of our vendors to supply us with sufficient inventory to stock our stores. If we fail to strengthen our relations with our existing vendors or to enhance the quality of merchandise they supply us, and if we cannot maintain or acquire new vendors of in-season better-branded merchandise, our ability to obtain a sufficient amount and variety of merchandise at favorable prices may be limited, which could have a negative impact on our competitive position. In addition, our inability to stock our DSW stores with in-season merchandise at attractive prices could result in lower net sales and decreased customer interest in our stores, which, in turn, would adversely affect our financial performance. During fiscal 2007, merchandise supplied to DSW by three key vendors accounted for approximately 21% of our net sales. The loss of or a reduction in the amount of merchandise made available to us by any one of these vendors could have an adverse effect on our business. 11 Table of Contents We may be unable to anticipate and respond to fashion trends and consumer preferences in the markets in which we operate, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our merchandising strategy is based on identifying each region’s customer base and having the proper mix of products in each store to attract our target customers in that region. This requires us to anticipate and respond to numerous and fluctuating variables in fashion trends and other conditions in the markets in which our stores are situated. A variety of factors will affect our ability to maintain the proper mix of products in each store, including: • variations in local economic conditions, which could affect our customers’ discretionary spending; • unanticipated fashion trends; • our success in developing and maintaining vendor relationships that provide us access to in-season merchandise at attractive prices; • our success in distributing merchandise to our stores in an efficient manner; and • changes in weather patterns, which in turn affect consumer preferences. If we are unable to anticipate and fulfill the merchandise needs of each region, we may experience decreases in our net sales and may be forced to increase markdowns in relation to slow-moving merchandise, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are affected by seasonal variability. Our net sales have typically been higher in spring and early fall. As a result of seasonality, any factors negatively affecting us during these periods, including adverse weather, the timing and level of markdowns or unfavorable economic conditions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flow and results of operations for the entire year. Our comparable store sales and quarterly financial performance may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, which could result in a decline in the price of our Class A Common Shares. Our business is sensitive to customers’ spending patterns, which in turn are subject to prevailing regional and national economic conditions and the general level of economic activity. Our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. A variety of other factors affect our comparable store sales and quarterly financial performance, including: • changes in our merchandising strategy; • timing and concentration of new DSW store openings and related pre-opening and other start-up costs; • levels of pre-opening expenses associated with new DSW stores; • changes in our merchandise mix; • changes in and regional variations in demographic and population characteristics; • timing of promotional events; • seasonal fluctuations due to weather conditions; • actions by our competitors; and • general U.S. economic conditions and, in particular, the retail sales environment. Accordingly, our results for any one fiscal quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any other quarter, and comparable store sales for any particular future period may decrease. Our future financial performance may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the price of our Class A Common Shares would likely decline. For more information on our quarterly results of operations, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” 12 Table of Contents We are reliant on our information systems and the loss or disruption of services could affect our ability to implement our growth strategy and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our information systems are an integral part of our growth strategy in both efficiently operating our stores and in managing the operations of a growing store base. The capital required to keep our information systems operating at peak performance may be higher than anticipated and could strain both our capital resources and our management of any upgrades. In addition, any significant disruption of our data centers could have a material adverse affect on those operations dependent on those systems, most specifically, store operations, our distribution center and our merchandising team. While we maintain business interruption and property insurance, in the event either of our information centers were to be shut down, our insurance may not be sufficient to cover the impact to the business, or insurance proceeds may not be timely paid to us. We are party to an Amended and Restated Shared Services Agreement with RVI whereby we provide information technology services to RVI and its subsidiaries, including Filene’s Basement. Through this agreement, we now provide the cash related to capital expense for information technology assets for RVI and its subsidiaries. We expect to recoup our expenditures by charging depreciation to RVI based on the expected lives of the assets. We are exposed to the risk that RVI may not be able to reimburse us for these expenditures which could adversely affect our financial performance. The loss or disruption of our distribution centers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Most of our inventory is shipped directly from suppliers to our primary distribution center in Columbus, Ohio, where the inventory is then processed, sorted and shipped to one of our pool locations located throughout the country and then on to our stores. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we began operations of our West Coast bypass. Our operating results depend on the orderly operation of our receiving and distribution process, which in turn depends on third-party vendors’ adherence to shipping schedules and our effective management of our distribution facilities. We may not anticipate all the changing demands that our expanding operations will impose on our receiving and distribution system, and events beyond our control, such as disruptions in operations due to fire or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements or shipping problems, may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores. While we maintain business interruption and property insurance, in the event our distribution center were to be shut down for any reason or if we were to incur higher costs and longer lead times in connection with a disruption at our distribution center, our insurance may not be sufficient, and insurance proceeds may not be timely paid to us. We are dependent on Retail Ventures to provide us with many key services for our business. From 1998 until our initial public offering in July 2005, we were operated as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Value City Department Stores, Inc. or Retail Ventures, and many key services required by us for the operation of our business are currently provided by Retail Ventures and its subsidiaries. We have entered into agreements with Retail Ventures related to the separation of our business operations from Retail Ventures including, among others, a master separation agreement and a shared services agreement. Under the terms of the shared services agreement, which was effective as of January 30, 2005, Retail Ventures provides us with key services relating to import administration, risk management, tax, financial services, shared benefits administration and payroll. Additionally, Retail Ventures maintains insurance for us and for our directors, officers, and employees. In turn, we provide several subsidiaries of Retail Ventures with services relating to planning and allocation support, distribution services, transportation management and information technology. The current term of the shared services agreement will expire at the end of fiscal 2008 and will be extended automatically for additional one-year terms unless terminated by one of the parties. We expect some of these services to be provided for longer or shorter periods than the initial term. We believe it is necessary for Retail Ventures to provide these services for us under the shared services agreement to facilitate the efficient operation of our business as we transition to becoming an independent public company. We, as a result, are dependent on our relationship with Retail Ventures for shared services. The current term of the shared services agreement will expire at the end of fiscal 2008. RVI and DSW are in the process of negotiating the transfer of the following shared service departments to DSW: Finance, Internal Audit, 13 Table of Contents Tax, Human Resource Information Systems and Risk Management. The companies have taken steps to begin the transfer of employees in these departments to DSW, however the definitive terms and conditions of the transfer to DSW and the provision of these departments’ services by DSW to RVI have not yet been agreed upon. Once the transition periods specified in the shared services agreement have expired and are not renewed, or if Retail Ventures does not or is unable to perform its obligations under the shared services agreement, we will be required to provide these services ourselves or to obtain substitute arrangements with third parties. We may be unable to provide these services because of financial or other constraints or be unable to timely implement substitute arrangements on terms that are favorable to us, or at all, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Retail Ventures has disposed of an 81% ownership interest in its Value City operations, which will impact the shared service allocations between DSW and RVI and may have a material adverse effect on our future financial performance and financial position. In January 2008, RVI announced the disposition of an 81% ownership interest in Value City Department Stores (“Value City”). As a part of this transaction, RVI agreed to provide certain transition services to Value City. DSW is a party to a Shared Services Agreement with RVI pursuant to which DSW receives services from RVI and provides services to RVI and its subsidiaries. The costs associated with many of these shared services are allocated among the parties based upon the percent of a parties’ sales compared to all RVI and DSW sales, or, in some cases, a usage based charge. Since the closing of this transaction, Value City has closed some stores and has informed us that it plans to close some additional existing stores. In the event that Value City significantly reduces or ceases operations, its allocation percentage of shared expenses would decrease, which would increase DSW’s allocation percentage of shared service expenses. Additionally, in the event that Value City significantly reduces or ceases operations, DSW would not be able to allocate as much or any expense to RVI relating to Value City’s utilization of information technology and shoe processing services. This increased allocation percentage and reduction in expense allocation could be material and have a negative effect on DSW’s results of operations and financial condition. If Value City defaults on its lease for the premises at 3241 Westerville Rd., RVI and DSW may become subject to various risks associated with the location of operations on these premises. Concurrent with RVI’s disposition of its 81% interest in the Value City business, RVI and DSW entered into an Occupancy Licensing Agreement with Value City to provide for RVI’s and DSW’s continuing occupancy of a portion of the premises at 3241 Westerville Road. If Value City defaults on its lease of this premises, RVI and DSW may become subject to risks associated with such a default, including the inability to access the premises, which could have a material adverse impact on RVI’s and DSW’s financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to retain our existing senior management team and to continue to attract qualified new personnel could adversely affect our business. Our business requires disciplined execution at all levels of our organization to ensure that we continually have sufficient inventories of assorted brand name merchandise at below traditional retail prices. This execution requires an experienced and talented management team. If we were to lose the benefit of the experience, efforts and abilities of any of our key executive and buying personnel, our business could be materially adversely affected. We have entered into employment agreements with several of these officers. Furthermore, our ability to manage our retail expansion will require us to continue to train, motivate and manage our employees and to attract, motivate and retain additional qualified managerial and merchandising personnel. Competition for these types of personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably. We may be unable to compete favorably in our highly competitive market. The retail footwear market is highly competitive with few barriers to entry. We compete against a diverse group of retailers, both small and large, including locally owned shoe stores, regional and national department stores, 14 Table of Contents specialty retailers and discount chains. Some of our competitors are larger and have substantially greater resources than we do. Our success depends on our ability to remain competitive with respect to style, price, brand availability and customer service. The performance of our competitors, as well as a change in their pricing policies, marketing activities and other business strategies, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our market share. A decline in general economic conditions, or the outbreak or escalation of war or terrorist acts, could lead to reduced consumer demand for our footwear and accessories. Consumer spending habits, including spending for the footwear and related accessories that we sell, are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, prevailing interest rates, income tax rates and policies, consumer confidence and consumer perception of economic conditions. In addition, consumer purchasing patterns may be influenced by consumers’ disposable income. A general slowdown in the U.S. economy or an uncertain economic outlook could adversely affect consumer spending habits. Consumer confidence is also affected by the domestic and international political situation. The outbreak or escalation of war, or the occurrence of terrorist acts or other hostilities in or affecting the United States, could lead to a decrease in spending by consumers. In the event of an economic slowdown, we could experience lower net sales than expected on a quarterly or annual basis and be forced to delay or slow our retail expansion plans. We rely on foreign sources for our merchandise, and our business is therefore subject to risks associated with international trade. We purchase merchandise from domestic and foreign vendors. In addition, many of our domestic vendors import a large portion of their merchandise from abroad, primarily from China, Brazil and Italy. We believe that almost all the merchandise we purchased during fiscal 2007 was manufactured outside the United States. For this reason, we face risks inherent in purchasing from foreign suppliers, such as: • economic and political instability in countries where these suppliers are located; • international hostilities or acts of war or terrorism affecting the United States or foreign countries from which our merchandise is sourced; • increases in shipping costs; • transportation delays and interruptions, including increased inspections of import shipments by domestic authorities; • work stoppages; • adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • U.S. laws affecting the importation of goods, including duties, tariffs and quotas and other non-tariff barriers; • expropriation or nationalization; • changes in local government administration and governmental policies; • changes in import duties or quotas; • compliance with trade and foreign tax laws; and • local business practices, including compliance with local laws and with domestic and international labor standards. We require our vendors to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and our internal requirements. However, we do not control our vendors or their labor and business practices. The violation of labor or other laws by one of our vendors could have an adverse effect on our business. 15 Table of Contents Restrictions in our secured revolving credit facility could limit our operational flexibility. We have entered into a $150 million secured revolving credit facility with a term expiring July 2010. Under this facility, we and our subsidiary, DSW Shoe Warehouse, Inc., are named as co-borrowers. This facility is subject to a borrowing base restriction and provides for borrowings at variable interest rates based on the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, the prime rate and the Federal Funds effective rate, plus a margin. Our obligations under our secured revolving credit facility are secured by a lien on substantially all our personal property and a pledge of our shares of DSWSW. In addition, the secured revolving credit facility contains usual and customary restrictive covenants relating to our management and the operation of our business. These covenants, among other things, restrict our ability to grant liens on our assets, incur additional indebtedness, open or close stores, pay cash dividends and redeem our stock, enter into transactions with affiliates and merge or consolidate with another entity. In addition, if at any time we utilize over 90% of our borrowing capacity under this facility, we must comply with a fixed charge coverage ratio test set forth in the facility documents. These covenants could restrict our operational flexibility, and any failure to comply with these covenants or our payment obligations would limit our ability to borrow under the secured revolving credit facility and, in certain circumstances, may allow the lenders there under to require repayment. The liquidity of our investments could fluctuate based on adverse market conditions. Recent auction failures have adversely affected the liquidity of auction rate securities as investors have not been able to sell their securities on their auction dates. If these market conditions persist, we may be unable to sell these auction rate securities at their scheduled auction dates. As of February 2, 2008, $38.0 million of our $82.5 million in total investments was invested in auction rate securities. We have reduced our investment in auction rate securities to $13.7 million as of March 31, 2008. Of the $13.7 million investment at March 31, 2008, $3.7 million in auction rate securities have not undergone an auction. Due to auction failures limiting the liquidity of our investments, we have presented $10.0 million of our investment in auction rate securities as long-term investments as of February 2, 2008 that were previously classified as short term investments. If we are unable to liquidate the remaining auction rate securities at their scheduled auction dates, we may not have access to our funds until the maturity date of these investments, which could be until 2034. Further, in the event that it is unlikely that we will be able to receive the full proceeds from these investments at the maturity date, we may be required to impair the securities. Based on the nature of the impairment(s), we would record a temporary impairment as an unrealized loss in comprehensive income or an other than temporary impairment in earnings, which could materially impact our results of operations. We did not record any impairment related to these investments as we do not believe that the underlying credit quality of the assets has been impacted by the reduced liquidity of these investments. From the time of our acquisition by Value City in 1998 until the completion of our initial public offering in July 2005, we were not operated as an entity separate from Value City and Retail Ventures, and, as a result, our historical financial information may be not indicative of our future financial performance. Our consolidated financial information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not be indicative of our future financial performance. This is because these statements do not necessarily reflect our historical financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of DSW as they would have been had we been operated as a stand-alone entity during the periods presented prior to our initial public offering. Our consolidated financial information prior to fiscal 2006 assumes that we had existed as a separate legal entity, and has been derived from the consolidated financial statements of Retail Ventures. Some costs have been reflected in the consolidated financial statements that are not necessarily indicative of the costs that we would have incurred had we operated as an independent, stand-alone entity for the applicable periods presented. These costs include allocated portions of Retail Ventures’ corporate overhead, interest expense and income taxes. 16 Table of Contents We face security risks related to our electronic processing and transmission of confidential customer information. On March 8, 2005, Retail Ventures announced the theft of credit card and other purchase information relating to DSW customers. The security breach could subject us to liability. As previously reported, on March 8, 2005, Retail Ventures announced that it had learned of the theft of credit card and other purchase information from a portion of our customers. On April 18, 2005, Retail Ventures issued the findings from its investigation into the theft. The theft covered transaction information involving approximately 1.4 million credit cards and data from transactions involving approximately 96,000 checks. We and Retail Ventures contacted and continue to cooperate with law enforcement and other authorities with regard to this matter. We are involved in a putative class action lawsuit which seeks unspecified monetary damages, credit monitoring and other relief. The lawsuit seeks to certify a class of consumers that is limited geographically to consumers who made purchases at certain stores in Ohio. There can be no assurance that there will not be additional proceedings or claims brought against us in the future. We have contested and will continue to vigorously contest the claims made against us and will continue to explore our defenses and possible claims against others. We estimated that the potential exposure for losses related to this theft including exposure under currently pending proceedings, ranges from approximately $6.5 million to approximately $9.5 million. Because of many factors, including the possible settlement of claims and recoverability under insurance policies, there is no amount in the estimated range that represents a better estimate than any other amount in the range. Therefore, in accordance with Financial Accounting Standard No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, we accrued a charge to operations in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 equal to the low end of the range set forth above, or $6.5 million. As the situation develops and more information becomes available, the amount of the reserve may increase or decrease accordingly. The amount of any such change may be material to our results of operations or financial condition. As of February 2, 2008, the balance of the associated accrual for potential exposure was $0.5 million. We are controlled directly by Retail Ventures and indirectly by SSC, whose interests may differ from other shareholders. As of February 2, 2008, Retail Ventures, a public corporation, owns 100% of our Class B Common Shares, which represents approximately 63.0% of our outstanding Common Shares. These shares collectively represent approximately 93.2% of the combined voting power of our outstanding Common Shares. As of February 2, 2008, SSC owns approximately 39.5% of the outstanding common shares of Retail Ventures and beneficially owns 50.2% of the outstanding common shares of Retail Ventures (assumes issuance of (i) 8,333,333 shares of Retail Ventures common stock issuable upon the exercise of convertible warrants, (ii) 1,731,460 shares of Retail Ventures common stock issuable upon the exercise of term loan warrants, and (iii) 342,709 shares of Retail Ventures common stock issuable pursuant to the term loan warrants). SSC, a privately held corporation, is controlled by Jay L. Schottenstein, the Chairman of the Board of Directors of DSW and Retail Ventures and the Chief Executive Officer of DSW, and members of his immediate family. Given their respective ownership interests, Retail Ventures and, indirectly, SSC, control or substantially influence the outcome of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including: • the election of directors; • mergers or other business combinations; and • acquisitions or dispositions of assets. The interests of Retail Ventures or SSC may differ from or be opposed to the interests of our other shareholders, and their control may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control that may be favored by other shareholders. SSC and Retail Ventures or its affiliates may compete directly against us. Corporate opportunities may arise in the area of potential competitive business activities that may be attractive to Retail Ventures, SSC and us. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation provide that Retail Ventures and SSC are under no obligation to communicate or offer any corporate opportunity to us. In addition, Retail Ventures 17 Table of Contents and SSC have the right to engage in similar activities as us, do business with our suppliers and customers and, except as limited by the master separation agreement, employ or otherwise engage any of our officers or employees. SSC and its affiliates engage in a variety of businesses, including, but not limited to, business and inventory liquidations and real estate acquisitions. The provisions also outline how corporate opportunities are to be assigned in the event that our, Retail Ventures’ or SSC’s directors and officers learn of corporate opportunities. Some of our directors and officers also serve as directors and officers of Retail Ventures, and may have conflicts of interest because they may own Retail Ventures stock or options to purchase Retail Ventures stock, or they may receive cash- or equity-based awards based on the performance of Retail Ventures. Some of our directors and officers also serve as directors or officers of Retail Ventures and may own Retail Ventures stock or options to purchase Retail Ventures stock, or they may be entitled to participate in the Retail Ventures incentive plans. Jay L. Schottenstein is our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Retail Ventures; Heywood Wilansky is a director of DSW and President and Chief Executive Officer of Retail Ventures; Harvey L. Sonnenberg is a director of DSW and of Retail Ventures; James A. McGrady is a Vice President of DSW and the Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer of Retail Ventures; and Steven E. Miller is Senior Vice President and Controller of both DSW and Retail Ventures. The Retail Ventures Plans provide cash- and equity-based compensation to employees based on Retail Ventures’ performance. These employment arrangements and ownership interests or cash- or equity-based awards could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when directors or officers who own Retail Ventures stock or stock options or who participate in the Retail Ventures Plans are faced with decisions that could have different implications for Retail Ventures than they do for us. These potential conflicts of interest may not be resolved in our favor. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that future earnings will be used principally to finance our retail expansion. Thus, we do not intend to pay cash dividends on our Common Shares in the foreseeable future. Provisions in our secured revolving credit facility may also restrict us from declaring dividends. Our board of directors will have sole discretion to determine the dividend amount, if any, to be paid. Our board of directors will consider a number of factors, including applicable provisions of Ohio corporate law, our financial condition, capital requirements, funds generated from operations, future business prospects, applicable contractual restrictions and any other factors our board may deem relevant. If our existing shareholders or holders of rights to purchase our Common Shares sell the shares they own, or if Retail Ventures distributes its Common Shares to its shareholders, it could adversely affect the price of our Class A Common Shares. The market price of our Class A Common Shares could decline as a result of market sales by our existing shareholders, including Retail Ventures, or a distribution of our Common Shares to Retail Ventures’ shareholders or the perception that such sales or distributions will occur. These sales or distributions also might make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. We cannot predict the size of future sales of our Common Shares. As of February 2, 2008, there were 16,225,633 Class A Common Shares of DSW outstanding. Additionally, there were 189,036 restricted stock units and director stock units outstanding at February 2, 2008 that were issued pursuant to the terms of DSW’s equity incentive plan. The remaining 27,702,667 Class B Common Shares outstanding are restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act but will be eligible for resale subject to applicable volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144. SSC, Cerberus Partners L.P., or Cerberus, and Millennium Partners, L.P., or Millennium, have the right to acquire Class A Common Shares of DSW from Retail Ventures pursuant to warrant agreements they have with Retail Ventures. All these Common Shares are eligible for future sale, subject to the applicable volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144. Retail Ventures has registration rights with respect to its DSW Common Shares in specified circumstances pursuant to the master separation agreement. In addition, SSC 18 Table of Contents and Cerberus (and any party to whom either of them transfers at least 15% of their interest in registrable DSW Common Shares) have the right to require that we register for resale in specified circumstances the Class A Common Shares issued to them upon exercise of their warrants, and each of these entities and Millennium will be entitled to participate in registrations initiated by the other entities. Our amended articles of incorporation, amended and restated code of regulations and Ohio state law contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of DSW. This could adversely affect the value of our Common Shares. Our amended articles of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 100,000,000 preferred shares and to determine the powers, preferences, privileges, rights, including voting rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions on those shares, without any further vote or action by the shareholders. The rights of the holders of our Common Shares will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred shares that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred shares could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control and could adversely affect the voting power of our Common Shares. In addition, provisions of our amended articles of incorporation, amended and restated code of regulations and Ohio law, together or separately, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change in control and limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for our Common Shares. Among other things, these provisions establish a staggered board, require a supermajority vote to remove directors, and establish certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for shareholder proposals to be considered at shareholders’ meetings. Risks Relating to our Relationship with and Separation from Retail Ventures The agreements we entered into with Retail Ventures in connection with our initial public offering could restrict our operations and adversely affect our financial condition. We and Retail Ventures have entered into a number of agreements governing our separation from and our future relationship with Retail Ventures, including a master separation agreement and a shared services agreement, in the context of our relationship to Retail Ventures. Accordingly, the terms and provisions of these agreements may be less favorable to us than terms and provisions we could have obtained in arm’s length negotiations with unaffiliated third parties. We and Retail Ventures have entered into a tax separation agreement. The tax separation agreement governs the respective rights, responsibilities, and obligations of Retail Ventures and us with respect to tax liabilities and benefits, tax attributes, tax contests and other matters regarding taxes and related tax returns. Although Retail Ventures has informed us that it does not currently intend or plan to undertake a spin-off of our stock to Retail Ventures’ shareholders, we and Retail Ventures’ have agreed to set forth our respective rights, responsibilities and obligations with respect to any possible spin-off in the tax separation agreement. If Retail Ventures were to decide to pursue a possible spin-off, we have agreed to cooperate with Retail Ventures and to take any and all actions reasonably requested by Retail Ventures in connection with such a transaction. We have also agreed not to knowingly take or fail to take any actions that could reasonably be expected to preclude Retail Ventures’ ability to undertake a tax-free spin-off. In addition, we generally would be responsible for any taxes resulting from the failure of a spin-off to qualify as a tax-free transaction to the extent such taxes are attributable to, or result from, any action or failure to act by us or certain transactions in our stock (including transactions over which we would have no control, such as acquisitions of our stock and the exercise of warrants, options, exchange rights, conversion rights or similar arrangements with respect to our stock) following or preceding a spin-off. We would also be responsible for a percentage (based on the relative market capitalizations of DSW and Retail Ventures at the time of such spin-off) of such taxes to the extent such taxes are not otherwise attributable to DSW or Retail Ventures. Our agreements in connection with such tax matters last indefinitely. 19 Table of Contents The PIES (Premium Income Exchangeable Securities) issued by Retail Ventures may adversely affect the market price for DSW Class A Common Shares. On August 10, 2006, Retail Ventures announced the pricing of its 6.625% Mandatorily Exchangeable Notes due September 15, 2011, or PIES (Premium Income Exchangeable Securities) in the aggregate principal amount of $143,750,000. The closing of the transaction took place during the third quarter of fiscal 2006. Except to the extent Retail Ventures exercises its cash settlement option, the PIES are mandatorily exchangeable, on the maturity date, into Class A Common Shares of DSW, no par value per share, which are issuable upon exchange of DSW Class B Common Shares, no par value per share, beneficially owned by Retail Ventures. On the maturity date, each holder of the PIES will receive a number of DSW Class A Common Shares per $50 principal amount of PIES equal to the “exchange ratio” described in the offering prospectus, or if Retail Ventures elects, the cash equivalent thereof or a combination of cash and DSW Class A Common Shares. The settlement of the PIES will not change the number of DSW Common Shares outstanding. The market price of our Class A Common Shares is likely to be influenced by the PIES issued by Retail Ventures. For example, the market price of our Class A Common Shares could become more volatile and could be depressed by (a) investors’ anticipation of the potential resale in the market of a substantial number of additional DSW Class A Common Shares received upon exchange of the PIES, (b) possible sales of our Class A Common Shares by investors who view the PIES as a more attractive means of equity participation in us than owning our Class A Common Shares and (c) hedging or arbitrage trading activity that may develop involving the PIES and our Class A Common Shares. We may be prevented from issuing stock to raise capital, to effectuate acquisitions or to provide equity incentives to members of our management and board of directors. Beneficial ownership of at least 80% of the total voting power and 80% of each class of nonvoting capital stock is required in order for Retail Ventures to effect a tax-free spin-off of DSW or certain other tax-free transactions. Although Retail Ventures has informed us that it does not currently intend or plan to undertake a spin-off of our stock to Retail Ventures’ shareholders, under the terms of our tax separation agreement, we have agreed that for so long as Retail Ventures continues to own greater than 50% of the voting control of our outstanding stock, we will not knowingly take or fail to take any action that could reasonably be expected to preclude Retail Ventures’ ability to undertake a tax-free spin-off. In addition, Retail Ventures is subject to contractual obligations with its warrantholders to retain enough DSW Common Shares to be able to satisfy its obligations to deliver such shares to its warrantholders if the warrantholders elect to exercise their warrants in full for DSW Class A Common Shares. Retail Ventures is also subject to contractual obligations with the holders of the PIES to retain enough DSW common shares to be able to satisfy its obligations to deliver shares to the holders of the PIES. These restrictions may prevent us from issuing additional equity securities to raise capital, to effectuate acquisitions or to provide management or director equity incentives. Our prior and continuing relationship with Retail Ventures exposes us to risks attributable to Retail Ventures’ businesses. Retail Ventures is obligated to indemnify us for losses that a party may seek to impose upon us or our affiliates for liabilities relating to the Retail Ventures business that are incurred through a breach of the master separation agreement or any ancillary agreement by Retail Ventures or its non-DSW affiliates, if such losses are attributable to Retail Ventures in connection with our initial public offering or are not expressly assumed by us under the master separation agreement. Any claims made against us that are properly attributable to Retail Ventures or Value City in accordance with these arrangements requires us to exercise our rights under the master separation agreement to obtain payment from Retail Ventures. We are exposed to the risk that, in these circumstances, Retail Ventures cannot, or will not, make the required payment. If this were to occur, our business and financial performance could be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents Possible future sales of Class A Common Shares by Retail Ventures, SSC, Cerberus and Millennium could adversely affect prevailing market prices for the Class A Common Shares. Retail Ventures may sell any and all of the Common Shares held by it subject to applicable lender consents, applicable securities laws and the restrictions set forth below. In addition, SSC, Cerberus and Millennium have the right to acquire from Retail Ventures Class A Common Shares of DSW. Sales or distribution by Retail Ventures, SSC, Cerberus and Millennium of a substantial number of Class A Common Shares in the public market or to their respective shareholders, or the perception that such SSC, Cerberus and Millennium sales or distributions could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for the Class A Common Shares. Retail Ventures has advised us that its current intent is to continue to hold all the Common Shares owned by it, except to the extent necessary to satisfy obligations under warrants it has granted to SSC, Cerberus, and Millennium. In addition, Retail Ventures is subject to contractual obligations with its warrantholders to retain enough DSW Common Shares to be able to satisfy its obligations to deliver such shares to its warrantholders if the warrantholders elect to exercise their warrants in full for DSW Class A Common Shares. Retail Ventures is also subject to contractual obligations with the holders of the PIES to retain enough DSW common shares to be able to satisfy its obligations to deliver shares to the holders of the PIES. For purposes of determining Retail Ventures’ ownership interest in DSW, DSW Common Shares transferred by Retail Ventures to the warrantholders upon exercise of their warrants and to the holders of the PIES upon exercise of the PIES will not be subtracted from Retail Ventures’ ownership. If Retail Ventures were to require funds to service or refinance its indebtedness or to fund its operations in the future and could not obtain capital from alternative sources, it could seek to sell some or all of the Common Shares of DSW that it holds in order to obtain such funds. Similarly, SSC, Cerberus and Millennium are not subject to any contractual obligation to retain Class A Common Shares they may acquire from Retail Ventures. As a result, there can be no assurance concerning the period of time during which Retail Ventures, SSC, Cerberus and Millennium will maintain their respective beneficial ownership of Common Shares in the future. Retail Ventures, SSC and Cerberus (and any party to whom either of them transfers at least 15% of their interest in registrable DSW Common Shares) will have registration rights with respect to their respective Common Shares, which would facilitate any future distribution, and SSC, Cerberus and Millennium will be entitled to participate in the registrations initiated by the other entities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 