Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in the Report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company also may impair the Company’s business operations and financial condition. Because we are dependent upon a limited number of customers, the loss of a significant customer could adversely affect our operating results. A relatively limited number of customers accounts for a large percentage of our consolidated net sales. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our largest customer, Wal-Mart (including its subsidiaries, such as Sam’s Club), represented approximately 11.7% of our consolidated net sales and approximately 22.1% of our non-dairy powdered creamer segment’s sales. During the same period, our five largest customers represented approximately 32.4% of our net sales. Our pickles segment’s five largest customers represented approximately 38.6% of that segment’s sales. During the same period, an affiliate of Sysco Corporation represented approximately 15.9% of sales attributable to our other food products group. These percentages may increase if the recent trends of consolidation in the retail grocery and foodservice industries continue. We expect that a significant portion of our net sales will continue to be derived from a small number of customers. These customers typically do not enter into written contracts, and the contracts that they do enter into generally are terminable at will. Our customers make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, product quality and customer service performance. If our product sales to one or more of these customers are reduced, this reduction may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The bankruptcy of a large foodservice customer and the loss of a retail chain customer in 2004, for example, contributed to declines in sales to retail customers and a subsequent 3.8% decrease in net sales in our pickles segment over the previous year. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Results of Continuing Operations — Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2003.” 8 Table of Contents Increases in input costs, such as raw materials, packaging materials and fuel costs, could adversely affect us. The most important raw material used in our pickle operations is cucumbers. We purchase cucumbers under seasonal grower contracts with a variety of growers strategically located to supply our production facilities. Bad weather or disease in a particular growing area can damage or destroy the crop in that area, which would impair crop yields. If we are not able to buy cucumbers from local suppliers, we would likely either purchase cucumbers from foreign sources, such as Mexico or India, or ship cucumbers from other growing areas in the United States, thereby increasing our production costs. The costs of other raw materials as well as packaging materials and fuel have varied widely in recent years, and future changes in such costs may cause our results of operations and our operating margins to fluctuate significantly. Many of the raw materials used in our products rose to unusually high levels during 2005, including soybean oil, casein, cheese and packaging materials. In addition, fuel costs, which represent the most significant factor affecting utility costs at our production facilities and our transportation costs, are currently at very high levels. Furthermore, certain input requirements, such as glass used in packaging, are available only from a limited number of suppliers. Changes in the prices of our products may lag behind changes in the costs of our materials. Competitive pressures also may limit our ability to quickly raise prices in response to increased raw materials, packaging and fuel costs. Accordingly, if we are unable to increase our prices to offset increase raw material, packaging and fuel costs, our operating profits and margins could be materially adversely affected. Our private label and regionally branded products may not be able to compete successfully with nationally branded products. For sales of private label products to retailers, the principal competitive factors are price, product quality and quality of service. For sales of private label products to consumers, the principal competitive factors are price and product quality. In many cases, competitors with nationally branded products have a competitive advantage over private label products primarily due to name recognition. In addition, when branded competitors focus on price and promotion, the environment for private label producers becomes more challenging because the price difference between private label products and branded products can become less meaningful. Competition to obtain shelf space for our branded products with retailers generally is based on the expected or historical performance of our product sales relative to our competitors. The principal competitive factors for sales of our branded products to consumers are brand recognition and loyalty, product quality and price. Most of our branded competitors have significantly greater resources and brand recognition than we do. Competitive pressures or other factors could cause us to lose market share, which may require us to lower prices, increase marketing expenditures, or increase the use of discounting or promotional programs, each of which would adversely affect our margins and could result in a decrease in our operating results and profitability. The consolidation trend among our customer base could adversely affect our profitability. The consolidation trend is continuing in the retail grocery and foodservice industries, and mass merchandisers are gaining market share. As this trend among grocery retailers continues and our retail customers, including mass merchandisers, grow larger and become more sophisticated, these retailers may demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs from product suppliers. If we are not selected by these retailers for most of our products or if we fail to effectively respond to their demands, our sales and profitability could be adversely affected. Furthermore, some of our large customers may seek more favorable terms for their purchases of our products. Sales to our large customers on terms less favorable than existing terms could have an adverse effect on our profitability. In addition, we have been subject to a number of competitive bidding situations over the last few years, which have resulted in margin erosion on sales to several 9 Table of Contents customers, including some large customers. In bidding situations we are subject to the risk of losing customers. Loss of any of our largest customers could have an adverse impact on our financial results. We may be unsuccessful in our future acquisition endeavors, if any, which may have an adverse effect on our business. Consistent with our stated strategy, our future growth rate depends, in large part, on our acquisition of additional food manufacturing businesses, products or processes. As a result, we intend to engage in acquisition activity. We may be unable to identify suitable targets, opportunistic or otherwise, for acquisition or make acquisitions at favorable prices. If we identify a suitable acquisition candidate, our ability to successfully implement the acquisition would depend on a variety of factors including our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms. Acquisitions involve risks, including those associated with integrating the operations, financial reporting, disparate technologies and personnel of acquired companies; managing geographically dispersed operations; the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have either limited or no direct experience; unknown risks; and the potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies. We may not successfully integrate businesses or technologies we acquire in the future and may not achieve anticipated revenue and cost benefits. Acquisitions may not be accretive to our earnings and may negatively impact our results of operations as a result of, among other things, the incurrence of debt, one-time write-offs of goodwill and amortization expenses of other intangible assets. In addition, future acquisitions could result in dilutive issuances of equity securities. We may be unable to anticipate changes in consumer preferences, which may result in decreased demand for our products. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the tastes and eating habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences. Consumer preferences change from time to time, and our failure to anticipate, identify or react to these changes could result in reduced demand for our products, which would adversely affect our operating results and profitability. We may be subject to product liability claims for misbranded, adulterated, contaminated or spoiled food products. We sell food products for human consumption, which involve risks such as: • product contamination or spoilage; • misbranding; • product tampering; and • other adulteration of food products. Consumption of a misbranded, adulterated, contaminated or spoiled product may result in personal illness or injury. We could be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to an actual or alleged illness or injury, and we could incur liabilities that are not insured or that exceed our insurance coverages. Even if product liability claims against us are not successful or fully pursued, these claims could be costly and time-consuming and may require management to spend time defending the claims rather than operating our business. A product that has been actually or allegedly misbranded or becomes adulterated could result in: • product withdrawals; • product recalls; • destruction of product inventory; • negative publicity; 10 Table of Contents • temporary plant closings; and • substantial costs of compliance or remediation. Any of these events, including a significant product liability judgment against us, could result in a loss of confidence in our food products, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Compliance with recent government regulations relating to bioterrorism could increase our operating costs and adversely affect our profitability. As a producer and marketer of food items we are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local governmental agencies. Recently, the Bioterrorism Act of 2002 was enacted which includes regulations relating to the tracking and tracing of food products, including ingredients and raw materials, throughout the process of production. We will need to expend monetary and non-monetary resources in the future to maintain such compliance. In addition, future regulations by these agencies could become more stringent. In each instance, continued compliance with these and any similar requirements could increase our operating costs and adversely affect our profitability in the future. Our business could be harmed by strikes or work stoppages by our employees. Currently, approximately 58% of our full time distribution, production and maintenance employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters or the United Food and Commercial Workers Union. If a dispute with one of these unions or the employees they represent were to arise, production interruptions caused by work stoppages could occur. If a strike or work stoppage were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We could incur significant tax liabilities if the Distribution becomes a taxable event. Dean Foods received a private letter ruling from the IRS substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Distribution of our common stock held by Dean Foods to its stockholders will qualify as a tax-free transaction under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). Although a private letter ruling from the IRS generally is binding on the IRS, if the facts presented or representations made in the letter ruling request are untrue or incomplete in any material respect, the letter ruling could be retroactively revoked or modified by the IRS. Furthermore, the IRS does not rule on whether a distribution satisfies certain requirements for a Section 355 distribution. Therefore, in addition to obtaining the letter ruling from the IRS, Dean Foods and we obtained an opinion from the law firm of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP that the Distribution qualified as a transaction under Section 355 of the Code. The opinion relies on the IRS letter ruling as to matters covered by the ruling. In addition, the opinion is based on, among other things, certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by Dean Foods and us, which if incorrect or inaccurate in any material respect would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. The opinion is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and the IRS or the courts may not agree with the opinion. Notwithstanding receipt by Dean Foods of the private letter ruling and opinion of counsel, the IRS could assert that the Distribution should be treated as a taxable event. If the IRS were successful in taking this position, our initial public stockholders and Dean Foods could be subject to significant U.S. federal income tax liability. In addition, even if the Distribution otherwise were to qualify under Section 355 of the Code, it may be taxable to Dean Foods (but not to Dean Foods stockholders) under Section 355(e) of the Code, if the Distribution were later deemed to be part of a plan (or series of related transactions) pursuant to which one or more persons acquire directly or indirectly stock representing a 50 percent or greater interest in Dean Foods or us. For this purpose, any acquisitions of Dean Foods stock or of our common stock within the period beginning two years before the Distribution and ending two years after the Distribution are presumed to be part of such a plan. 11 Table of Contents Although the taxes resulting from a taxable distribution generally would be imposed on Dean Foods and its stockholders, we would in certain circumstances be liable under the tax sharing agreement for all or a portion of Dean Foods’ taxes resulting from the Distribution being taxable. If we were to become liable for such taxes, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 