Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this annual report. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any of the risks described below could individually or in combination result in a significant or material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, and a corresponding decline in the market price of our common stock. These risks discussed below may also include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in those forward-looking statements. Other unforeseen risks may also negatively impact our results of operations or financial condition. Please refer to the discussion under the heading Important Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this annual report. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry Exposure to Catastrophes and Other Weather-Related Losses The occurrence of severe catastrophic events may have a material adverse effect on us, particularly because we conduct business in a concentrated geographical area. We expect to have large aggregate exposures to natural and man-made disasters, such as hurricanes, hail, tornados, windstorms, floods, wildfires, acts of war and acts of terrorism. We expect that our loss experience generally will include infrequent events of great severity. Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, which occurred on August 29 and September 24, 2005, respectively, are such examples. The risks associated with natural and man-made disasters are inherently unpredictable, and it is difficult to predict the timing of such events with statistical certainty or estimate the amount of loss any given occurrence will generate. Although we may attempt to exclude certain losses from terrorism and other similar risks from some coverages we write, we may not be successful in doing so. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of policyholder exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. The occurrence of losses from catastrophic events may have a material adverse effect on our ability to write new business and on our financial condition and results of operations. Increases in the values and geographic concentrations of policyholder property and the effects of inflation have resulted in increased severity of industry losses in recent years, and we expect that those factors will increase the severity of losses in the future. Factors that might influence our exposure to losses from these types of events in addition to the routine adjustment of losses include: exhaustion of reinsurance cover; increases in reinsurance rates; unanticipated litigation expenses; recoverability of ceded losses; impact on independent agent operations and future premium income in areas affected by catastrophic events; and unanticipated expansion of policy coverage or reduction of premium due to regulatory, legislative, judicial action following a catastrophic event, and unanticipated demand surge related to other recent catastrophe events, among others. We write insurance primarily in the states of Texas, Louisiana, Oklahoma and New Mexico. As a result, a single catastrophe, destructive weather pattern, wildfire, terrorist attack, regulatory development or other condition or general economic trend affecting this region could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations more significantly than other insurance companies that conduct business across a broader geographical area. Although we purchase catastrophe reinsurance to limit our exposure to these types of natural catastrophes, in the event of one or more major catastrophes resulting in losses to us in excess of $100.0 million, our losses would exceed the limits of our reinsurance coverage. We are exposed to claims related to severe weather, which may result in an increase in claims frequency and severity. We are subject to claims arising out of severe weather, such as hurricanes, tornados, rainstorms, snowstorms, hailstorms, windstorms and ice storms that may have a significant effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The majority of our business is written in Texas and Oklahoma where drought conditions at the end of 2005 were at their worst levels in 50 years, making the risk of loss from wildfires more 35 Table of Contents prevalent. The incidence and severity of weather conditions are inherently unpredictable, and according to some observers related to the larger issue of global climate change. Additionally, some forecasters predict that we are currently in a cycle of more numerous and more severe hurricanes. Our average annual net catastrophe losses after reinsurance recoveries from 2001 through 2005 were $13.1 million, with an average of four catastrophic events in excess of $1.0 million in losses per year. During this period, the year least impacted by catastrophes (2004) experienced $7.2 million in net catastrophe losses, with three catastrophic events exceeding $1.0 million, while the year most impacted (2003) experienced $18.8 million in such losses with five events exceeding $1.0 million. Before reinsurance recoveries, we incurred $90.5 million (not including LAE) in catastrophe related losses in 2005, primarily related to hurricane losses from Katrina and Rita. However, our net loss after reinsurance for the two hurricanes was $5.0 million. For all of 2005, our net catastrophe loss experience in 2005 was $14.1 million after reinsurance. There is generally an increase in claims frequency and severity under the personal auto insurance we write when severe weather occurs because of a higher incidence of vehicular accidents and due to direct storm damage, particularly during hailstorms. In addition, we are exposed to an increase in claims frequency and severity under the homeowners and dwelling fire insurance we write because property damage may result from severe weather conditions. Our insured risks generally exhibit higher losses in the second and third quarters of the year due to a seasonal concentration of weather-related events in our geographic region. Although weather-related losses (including hail, high winds, tornadoes and hurricanes) can occur in any calendar quarter, the second quarter historically has experienced the highest frequency of these losses. For example, for the last five years, the contribution of weather-related catastrophes to the consolidated second quarter net loss ratio was on average approximately 8 points greater than the average contribution of catastrophes in the other three quarters. Our Personal Lines segment has been most heavily impacted by this seasonality of weather events, with the contribution of weather-related catastrophes to its second quarter net loss ratio on average approximately 13 points greater than the average contribution of catastrophes in the other quarters over this same period. Hurricanes are more likely to occur in the third quarter; however, the history of hurricane frequency in our operating area is lower than other types of weather-related events. Losses from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita were the first hurricane losses of any significance since 2001. We purchase various levels of reinsurance to protect us from the high frequency and severity of these events. In the event of a catastrophe or one or more severe weather events in the same geographic region, the price of labor and materials needed to repair damaged homes and buildings may increase dramatically due to the sharp increase in demand for labor and materials in that region. As a result, if our initial liability estimate is not adequate following the occurrence of a catastrophe or one or more severe weather events, the resulting adverse effect on our liabilities for losses and LAE could be compounded by the inflationary pressures on reconstruction costs. We utilize catastrophe modeling to assess our probable maximum insurance loss from hurricane and other wind/hail perils and structure our catastrophe reinsurance program to minimize our exposure to high severity/high frequency types of losses. Hurricane Katrina highlighted the challenges inherent in predicting the impact of catastrophic events, such as a severe hurricane. The catastrophe models generally failed to adequately project the financial impact of Hurricane Katrina. Although it is likely that modeling techniques will improve in response to the recent hurricanes, this experience highlights the limitations inherent in the use of modeling as a means of risk assessment. Although we purchase catastrophe reinsurance to limit our exposure to severe weather events and additional reinsurance to limit our exposure to more frequent smaller storms and other weather events that arise in our geographic area, in the event that a series of weather events were to arise in our geographic area in the same calendar year, our losses could exceed the limits of our catastrophe and frequency reinsurance coverages. 36 Table of Contents Pricing If we cannot price our business accurately, our profitability and the profitability of our insurance companies could be materially and adversely affected. Our results of operations and financial condition depend on our ability to underwrite and set premium rates accurately for a wide variety of risks. Adequate rates are necessary to generate premiums sufficient to pay losses, LAE and underwriting expenses and to earn a profit. To price our products accurately, we must (1) collect and properly analyze a substantial amount of data, (2) develop, test and apply appropriate pricing techniques, (3) closely monitor and recognize changes in trends in a timely manner and (4) project both severity and frequency of losses with reasonable accuracy. Our ability to undertake these efforts successfully and price our products accurately is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which are outside our control, including: • the availability of sufficient reliable data and our ability to properly analyze available data; • changes in applicable legal liability standards and in the civil litigation system generally; • our selection and application of appropriate pricing techniques; • our ability to obtain regulatory approval, where necessary; • the uncertainties that inherently characterize estimates and assumptions; and • our ability to obtain adequate rates to offset higher reinsurance costs. Consequently, we could underprice risks, which would adversely affect our profit margins, or we could overprice risks, which could reduce our competitiveness and sales volume. In either case, our profitability and the profitability of our insurance companies could be materially and adversely affected. Liabilities for losses and LAE If our actual losses and LAE exceed our loss and expense estimates, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our financial condition and results of operations depend upon our ability to assess accurately the potential losses associated with the risks that we insure. We establish liabilities to cover the payment of all losses and LAE incurred under the policies that we write. Such liability estimates include case estimates, which are established for specific claims that have been reported to us, and liabilities for claims that have been incurred but not reported, or IBNR. LAE represents expenses incurred to investigate and settle claims. To the extent that losses and LAE exceed our estimates, we will be required to increase our liabilities and reduce our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified. The liability estimation process for our casualty insurance coverage possesses characteristics that make case and IBNR reserving inherently less susceptible to accurate actuarial estimation than is the case with property coverages. Unlike property losses, casualty losses are claims made by third parties of which the policyholder may not be aware and therefore may be reported a significant time after the occurrence, sometimes years later. As casualty claims most often involve claims of bodily injury, assessment of the proper case estimates is a far more subjective process than claims involving property damage. In addition, in determining the case estimate for a casualty claim, information develops slowly over the life of the claim and can subject the case estimation to substantial modification well after the claim was first reported. Numerous factors impact the casualty case reserving process, such as venue, the amount of monetary damage, the permanence of the injury and the age of the claimant. The effects of inflation could cause the severity of claims from catastrophes or other events to rise in the future. Increases in the values and geographic concentrations of policyholder property and the effects of inflation have resulted in increased severity of industry losses in recent years, and we expect that these factors will increase the severity of losses in the future. As we saw in 2005, the severity of some catastrophic weather events, 37 Table of Contents including the scope and extent of damage and the inability to gain access to damaged properties, and the ensuing shortages of labor and materials and resulting demand surge provide additional challenges to estimating ultimate losses. Our liabilities for losses and LAE include assumptions about future payments for settlement of claims and claims handling expenses, such as medical treatments and litigation costs. To the extent inflation causes these costs to increase above liabilities established for these costs, we expect to be required to increase our liabilities with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified. Estimating an appropriate level of liabilities for losses and LAE is an inherently uncertain process. Accordingly, actual loss and LAE paid will likely deviate, perhaps substantially, from the liability estimates reflected in our consolidated and combined financial statements. Claims could exceed our liabilities for losses and LAE and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Reinsurance If we cannot obtain adequate reinsurance protection for the risks we underwrite, we may be exposed to greater losses from these risks or we may reduce the amount of business we underwrite, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases have prevented, insurers from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance that they consider adequate for their business needs. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain desired amounts of reinsurance. In addition, even if we are able to obtain reinsurance, we may not be able to obtain it from entities with satisfactory creditworthiness or negotiate terms that we deem appropriate or acceptable. If we cannot obtain adequate reinsurance protection for the risks we underwrite, we may be exposed to greater losses from these risks or we may be forced to reduce the amount of business that we underwrite, which will reduce our revenue and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We use reinsurance to protect us from certain risks and to share certain risks we underwrite. The amount of reinsurance varies by our segments as discussed in further detail under the heading Item 1. Business—Reinsurance. During 2005, our Personal Lines segment ceded 8.7% of its gross written premiums (primarily through excess of loss and catastrophe reinsurance treaties), our Commercial Lines segment ceded 14.5% of its gross written premiums (primarily through excess of loss and catastrophe reinsurance treaties), our Program Management segment ceded 57.0% of its gross written premiums (primarily through quota share and excess of loss reinsurance treaties), and our Insurance Services segment ceded 100% of its gross written premiums (primarily through quota share reinsurance treaties). Unfavorable federal and state legislation related to terrorism insurance or reinsurance (such as the extension or replacement for the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005) could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. If our reinsurers do not pay losses in a timely fashion, or at all, we may incur substantial losses that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, we had $319.3 million and $263.8 million, respectively, in reinsurance recoverables, including ceded paid loss recoverables, ceded losses and LAE recoverables and ceded unearned premiums, of which $264.3 million in 2005 and $234.6 million in 2004 related to our Program Management and Insurance Services segments. We expect to continue to purchase substantial reinsurance coverage in the foreseeable future. Because we remain primarily liable to our policyholders for the payment of their claims, regardless of the reinsurance we have purchased relating to those claims, in the event that one of our reinsurers becomes insolvent or otherwise refuses to reimburse us for losses paid, or delays in reimbursing us for losses paid, our liability for these claims could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 38 Table of Contents As an example, had one of our catastrophe reinsurers experienced financial difficulties following one of the major hurricanes in 2005 and been unable to meet its obligations to us, we could have experienced a liquidity challenge in order to meet our obligations to our policyholders. However, all of our reinsurers responded in a timely fashion and we did not have any liquidity issues, nor do we expect any collectibility issues for reinsurance recoverables associated with the recent hurricanes. For another example, in 2002, when Gerling Global Reinsurance decided to withdraw from the reinsurance markets, Gerling was a significant participant on reinsurance treaties primarily in our Program Management segment. The withdrawal allowed us to commute our reinsurance agreements with Gerling, assume responsibility for its participations in the existing reinsurance agreements and find an appropriate reinsurer to replace it for future writings. Another example of a reinsurer with acceptable financial strength ratings in the years we entered reinsurance agreements, but which subsequently experienced financial difficulties and was subjected to regulatory oversight, was Philadelphia Reinsurance (a reinsurer primarily in our Personal Lines segment). We commuted our reinsurance agreements in 2003 with Philadelphia Reinsurance and assumed responsibility for its participation in the existing reinsurance agreements, and found an appropriate reinsurer to replace it for future writings. Neither of these examples resulted in a material loss to the Company. Any losses resulting from a commutation or any other circumstance are recorded at the time of commutation or at the point any such loss is deemed probable and can be reasonably estimated. In our fronting business, reported in our Insurance Services segment, we write insurance on behalf of several national and regional insurance carriers and cede the risk under these policies to these carriers in exchange for fronting fees. Because we cede all of these risks, we hold no net liabilities for losses or LAE that might arise as a result of claims made under these policies. However, as the issuer of the policies, we remain directly liable to these policyholders. In 2005, we wrote insurance policies with $140.8 million in gross written premiums as part of our fronting business reported in our Insurance Services segment. In the event that any of these carriers becomes insolvent or otherwise refuses to reimburse these policyholders for losses paid (or us, to the extent we reimburse these policyholders directly) in a timely manner, our liability for these claims could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Distribution We rely on independent insurance agents to distribute our products. Our business depends in large part on the efforts of independent insurance agents to market our insurance products and on our ability to offer insurance products and services that meet the requirements of the customers. While we strive to offer products our agents require, we compete for their business with other carriers based on the scope of coverage provided in our products, services, commissions and rates. Our competitors may offer coverage that is more attractive to particular customers than we offer for a specific product, may price their insurance products more aggressively, may offer higher agent commissions and may devote additional resources to improve their services. Accordingly, our agents may find it easier to promote the programs of our competitors rather than ours. If our agents fail or choose not to market our insurance products successfully, our growth may be limited and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Additionally, rather than utilize an independent agent to buy their insurance, consumers may elect to deal with direct-writers or mass marketers who utilize the internet to advertise and/or underwrite their business. Industry developments that centralize and commoditize insurance products could be detrimental to our agency distribution model. We rely on managing general agents to underwrite some of our products and administer claims. We have developed programs with managing general agents, or MGAs, whereby the MGA will, within the guidelines we establish, underwrite insurance policies on our behalf and administer any claims arising under those policies. While we exercise care in the selection of our MGA relationships and regularly audit the performance of our MGAs, we are at risk for their conduct as a result of the authority we have delegated to them. If one of our MGAs binds us to policies that expose us to unexpected losses or fails to appropriately administer claims, including claims related to runoff business in programs we have terminated, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. For example, if a terminated MGA fails to continue to appropriately settle claims during the runoff period, then liabilities for losses and LAE could be 39 Table of Contents deficient, which would impact our results of operations in future periods. Furthermore, subject to contractual limitations, MGAs have the ability to change carriers or increase or decrease the allocation to a particular carrier. An MGA might choose to change carriers or allocations for reasons such as pricing, service, conditions in the reinsurance market or a change in ownership of the MGA. If we are unable to maintain our business relationship with our largest producing MGA, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have developed relationships with MGAs that underwrite insurance policies on our behalf through contractual programs in our Program Management segment. Unaffiliated MGA programs collectively accounted for $133.5 million of our gross written premiums in 2005. TGA, our largest unaffiliated MGA, accounted for 87.4% of total gross written premiums for our Program Management segment in 2005. TGA was acquired by an unaffiliated third party in 2005. Following that acquisition, we entered into a three year agreement to continue as the underwriting insurer and increase our participation in the net premium and underwriting results from 40% in 2005 to 50% in 2006. In 2007, our agreement provides that we will retain 40% to 50% of the TGA volume, and in 2008 we will retain a minimum of 30%. Various factors could influence either party’s election to end or continue the relationship, such as industry trends and financial market conditions. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to renew the terms of our program with TGA at the end of the current agreement or any future year. The loss of our business relationship with TGA would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations unless we are able to substantially replace that business with other profitable business. Personnel Our success depends in substantial part upon our personnel who have knowledge and experience in our target markets and lines of business. In order to execute our business strategy successfully, we must attract and retain qualified executive officers, experienced underwriting and claims personnel and other skilled employees who are knowledgeable about our business. We rely substantially upon the services of our executive management team and the skilled underwriting, actuarial and claims management teams they supervise. We are not aware of any planned departures or retirements. However, if we were to lose the services of members of our management team, our business could be adversely affected. We have employment agreements with Parker W. Rush, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Martin B. Cummings, our Chief Financial Officer, and Robert S. Howey, our Chief Marketing Officer. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance policies for any of our employees or employment agreements with any of our other employees. Our future growth will require us to hire additional underwriting and marketing talent as we expand our product offerings. Our underwriters manage and review all aspects of our commercial and personal insurance lines and personally underwrite all of our commercial lines policies, all of our personal lines policies that do not satisfy our established underwriting guidelines and a random sampling of those personal lines policies that otherwise do satisfy our established underwriting guidelines. As the underwriting function in many larger carriers becomes increasingly automated, there are fewer skilled underwriters of the type we require. As a result, we may have difficulty finding talented replacements for members of our current underwriting team or additional underwriters that will enable our business to grow. If we are unable to find talented underwriters to meet the growing demand for our products, our business could be adversely affected. Ratings A decline in our “A- (Excellent)” financial strength rating by A.M. Best could cause our sales and earnings to decrease. Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. A.M. Best maintains a letter scale rating system ranging from “A++ (Superior)” to “F (In Liquidation)” to rate the financial strength of insurance enterprises. RUIC has been rated “A- (Excellent)” by A.M. Best, which is the fourth highest of fifteen rating levels. 40 Table of Contents Our financial strength rating is subject to periodic review by, and may be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of, A.M. Best. A decline in our rating or an announced negative outlook on the rating can cause concern about our viability among our agents, brokers and policyholders, resulting in a movement of business away from us to more highly-rated carriers. In addition, the errors and omissions insurance coverage of many of our independent agents does not provide coverage if the covered agents sell policies from insurers with an A.M. Best financial strength rating of “B+ (Very Good)” or below. As a result, the loss of our A.M. Best financial strength rating, or its reduction to “B+ (Very Good)” or worse, may adversely impact our ability to retain or expand our policyholder base. Periodically, A.M. Best changes its rating methodology and practices. Such changes could result in a reduction of our A.M. Best rating. The objective of the A.M. Best rating system is to provide an opinion of an insurer’s financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations to its policyholders. Our ratings reflect A.M. Best’s opinion of our financial strength and are not evaluations directed to investors in our common stock nor recommendations to buy, sell or hold our common stock. Changing Business Environment The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. At the present time, we employ a variety of endorsements to our policies that limit our exposure to known risks, such as exclusions for mold losses, cosmetic (non-structural) damage to dwelling roofs and foundation losses due to water damage. Our policies are also not designed to provide coverage for claims related to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances including, but not limited to, lead paint, silica and other potentially harmful substances. Our homeowners policies specifically exclude coverage for losses caused by flood, but generally provide coverage for damage caused by wind and wind driven rain. In addition, our policies contain conditions requiring the prompt reporting of claims to us and our right to decline coverage due to late claim reporting. Our policies also include limitations restricting the period in which a policyholder may bring a breach of contract or other claim against us, which in many cases is shorter than the applicable statutory limitations for such claims. While these exclusions and limitations reduce our loss exposure and help eliminate known exposures to some risks, it is possible that a court or regulatory authority could nullify or void an exclusion or legislation could be enacted modifying or barring the use of endorsements and limitations in a way that would adversely affect our loss experience, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until long after we have issued insurance policies that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance policies may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. An example of the potential threats to our business and that of the insurance industry are legal and regulatory actions that could emerge from the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. Legal actions have been filed against other insurers in Mississippi (we do not have any property risks in Mississippi) and Louisiana seeking to extend coverage under homeowners policies to include rising water from the hurricane storm surge. In the event legal or regulatory mandates override the industry standard flood exclusion clauses in homeowners policies, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in other legal theories of liability under our insurance policies or the failure of any loss limitation we apply could also adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. 41 Table of Contents Because our main source of premiums is in Texas, unfavorable changes in the economic or regulatory environment in that state may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Texas accounted for 88.1% of our gross written premiums in 2005. The loss of a significant amount of our premiums written in Texas, whether due to an economic downturn, competitive changes, regulatory or legislative developments or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, a change in the political climate during the 2006 election year, including the Texas gubernatorial race, could impact homeowners and other insurance rates. Competition If we are unsuccessful in competing against larger or more well-established rivals, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The insurance industry is highly competitive and has historically been characterized by periods of significant price competition, alternating with periods of greater pricing discipline during which competitors focus on other factors. In the current market environment, where premium rates have remained favorable, competition in our business is based primarily on the following: • products offered; • service; • experience; • the strength of our agent and policyholder relationships; • reputation; • speed and accuracy of claims payment; • perceived financial strength; • ratings; • scope of business; • commissions paid; and • policy and contract terms and conditions. We compete with major insurers, including large national companies who have greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. Many of these competitors also have better ratings and market recognition than we do. We seek to distinguish ourselves from our competitors by providing a broad product line and targeting those market segments that provide the best opportunity to earn an underwriting profit. We also face competition from entities that self-insure, primarily in the commercial insurance market. From time to time, established and potential customers may examine the benefits and risks of self-insurance and other alternatives to traditional insurance. In addition, a number of new, proposed or potential industry developments could also increase competition in our industry. These developments include changes in practices and other effects caused by the internet (including direct marketing campaigns by our competitors in established and new geographic markets), which have led to greater competition in the insurance business and increased expectations for customer service. These developments could prevent us from expanding our book of business. New competition could reduce the demand for our insurance products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 42 Table of Contents Investments Our investment performance may suffer as a result of adverse capital market developments or other factors, which may affect our financial results and ability to conduct business. We invest the premiums we receive from policyholders until they are needed to pay policyholder claims or other expenses. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, our invested assets consisted of $298.2 million and $278.0 million in fixed maturity securities and $63.9 million and $36.5 million in short-term investments, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we had $11.7 million of net investment income representing 4.6% of our total revenues and 40.0% of our income before taxes. For the year ended December 31, 2004, we had $8.2 million of net investment income representing 3.5% of our total revenues and 26.6% of our income before taxes. An outside asset management company under the direction of our management team manages our investments in accordance with detailed investment guidelines we set. Although our investment policies stress diversification of risks, conservation of principal and liquidity, our investments are subject to a variety of investment risks, including those relating to general economic conditions, market volatility, interest rate fluctuations, liquidity risk and credit and default risk. In particular, the volatility of our claims may force us to liquidate securities, which may cause us to incur capital losses. If our investment portfolio is not appropriately matched with our insurance liabilities, we may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a significant loss to cover these liabilities. Investment losses could significantly decrease our asset base and statutory surplus, thereby adversely affecting our ability to conduct business and potentially our A.M. Best financial strength rating. Further, developments in the world’s financial and capital markets could adversely affect the performance of our investments, including, but not limited to federal and state legislation related to terrorism insurance and reinsurance, such as the extension of or replacement for the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005. Additionally, inflation could increase beyond our ability to earn investment income to keep pace. Our investment in Seguros Atlas, S.A. represents a significant concentration of investment assets and also subjects us to exchange rate fluctuations that could impact our profitability. Our investment in Atlas is accounted for under the equity method. The recorded value of $35.9 million and $31.0 million as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, represented 8.9% and 8.9% of our total invested assets and 21.8% and 18.3% of our total shareholders’ equity, respectively. Atlas is a mid-sized Mexican life, health, property and casualty insurer in whose day-to-day operations we have minimal involvement. The value of Atlas is affected by many factors unrelated to us, such as the economic and geopolitical climate in Mexico and the Mexican peso to U.S. dollar exchange rate. Atlas is not listed on a public securities exchange and a family holds most of the outstanding stock, so our investment is illiquid. A significant decline in the value of the asset could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, changes in the financial condition or results of operations of Atlas or a change in the Mexican or U.S. statutes, regulations or rules regarding ownership of or the accounting for ownership of or the taxation of ownership of a Mexican company could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our 30% interest in the financial position and results of operations of Atlas, which are reported in Mexican pesos, is converted into U.S. dollars and U.S. GAAP and is reported in our consolidated income statement and balance sheet. As a result, our net assets and results of operations are exposed to fluctuations in the peso to dollar exchange rate. During times of a relatively strong U.S. dollar, that portion of our earnings and assets derived from our ownership interest in Atlas will be reduced because the Mexican peso will translate into fewer U.S. dollars. These effects may have a material and adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our domestic operations. The Mexican insurance markets have experienced significant rate softening due in part to price decreases from foreign controlled insurers. Additionally, Mexico has experienced significant hurricane related losses in recent years. A continuation of these factors could negatively impact Atlas and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 43 Table of Contents Our investment results may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. Our operating results are affected, in part, by the performance of our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio contains instruments, such as bonds, that may be adversely affected by increases in interest rates. Because bond prices decrease as interest rates rise, a significant increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. On the other hand, decreases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our investment income and results of operations. For example, if interest rates decline, investment of new premiums received and funds reinvested will earn less. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. As of December 31, 2005, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities constituted 31.7% of our cash and invested assets. As with other fixed-income investments, the fair market value of these securities fluctuates depending on market and other general economic conditions and the interest rate environment. Changes in interest rates can expose us to prepayment risks on these investments. When interest rates fall, mortgage-backed securities are prepaid more quickly and the holder must reinvest the proceeds at lower interest rates. Our mortgage-backed securities currently consist of securities with features that reduce the risk of prepayment, but we cannot assure you that we will invest in other mortgage-backed securities that contain this protection. In periods of increasing interest rates, mortgage-backed securities are prepaid more slowly, which may require us to receive interest payments that are below the then prevailing interest rates for longer time periods than expected. Capital We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or only available on unfavorable terms. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and liabilities at levels sufficient to cover losses. In addition, a default under our senior secured credit facility entered into in February 2005 could result in our being required to repay the $20.0 million of outstanding principal prior to maturity. We may default under that facility if, among other things, we become subject to a judgment in excess of $2.5 million, we experience a change in control (as defined in the credit facility), or we discover certain material weaknesses or fraud with respect to our internal controls. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources. If we have to raise additional capital, equity or debt financing may not be available at all or may be available only on unfavorable terms. Equity financings could dilute our stockholders and contain rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our outstanding equity. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Regulation The regulatory system under which we operate, and potential changes to that system, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision in those states in which we write insurance policies and in which our operating subsidiaries and affiliates are domiciled. Though we currently write most of our policies in Texas, Louisiana, Oklahoma and New Mexico, we are licensed in 39 states and have insurance company subsidiaries and affiliates domiciled in Texas, Oklahoma and Arizona. Laws and regulations pertaining to us are generally administered by state insurance departments and relate to, among other things: • standards of solvency, including risk based capital measurements; • restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; • required methods of accounting; 44 Table of Contents • rate and form regulation pertaining to certain of our insurance businesses; and • potential assessments for the provision of funds necessary for the settlement of covered claims under certain policies provided by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies. Significant changes in the political and regulatory climate could result in changes in these laws and regulations and could make it more expensive or less profitable to manage our business. These state insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to financial condition, holding company issues and other matters. These regulatory requirements may adversely affect or inhibit our ability to achieve some or all of our business objectives. We may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations or accreditations in these states or in new states we intend to enter, or we may be able to do so only at a significant cost. In addition, we may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and insurance holding companies, which could result in restrictions on our operating flexibility and could subject us to fines and other sanctions that may have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, changes in the laws or regulations to which our operating subsidiaries and affiliates are subject could adversely affect our ability to operate and expand our business and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Regulatory changes that may adversely affect our fronting business are discussed below. In recent years, the U.S. insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislators have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies and holding companies. Moreover, the NAIC and state insurance regulators regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations, often focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws. Changes in these laws and regulations or their interpretation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The activities of our MGAs are subject to licensing requirements and regulation under the laws of the states in which they operate. Our MGAs’ businesses depend on the validity of, and continued good standing under, the licenses and approvals pursuant to which they operate, as well as compliance with pertinent laws and regulations. Company licensing laws and regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. In all jurisdictions, the applicable company licensing laws and regulations are subject to amendment or interpretation by regulatory authorities. Generally these authorities are vested with relatively broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals for various reasons, including the violation of law and conviction of crimes. Other sanctions may include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in a particular business for specified periods of time, revocation of licenses, censures, redress to clients and fines. Although we endeavor to follow practices based on our best interpretations of laws and regulations, or those generally followed by the industry, these practices may prove to be different from those that the regulatory authorities require. If the states in which we write insurance drastically increase the assessments we are required to pay, our financial condition and results of operations will suffer. We are subject to a variety of taxes, fines, levies, license fees, tariffs and other assessments that may, from time to time, be material. These assessments are made by the states in which our insurance subsidiaries and affiliates operate and include participation in involuntary risk plans in various states that provide insurance coverage to individuals or entities that otherwise are unable to purchase such coverage from private insurers. Because of our participation, we may be exposed to losses that surpass the capitalization of these facilities and/or to assessments from these facilities. We are also subject to assessments in the states in which we write insurance for various purposes, including the provision of funds necessary to fund the operations of various insurance guaranty associations, which pay covered claims under certain policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies. These assessments are generally set based on an insurer’s percentage of the total premiums written in the relevant state within a particular line of business. From 1999 to 2005, our assessments in 45 Table of Contents any year did not exceed $1.7 million. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our assessments were $1.7 million, principally related to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in Louisiana (see next paragraph), and additional or emergency hurricane-related assessments are likely to follow. For the year ended December 31, 2004, our assessments were $0.3 million. As we grow, our share of any assessments may increase. However, we cannot predict with certainty the amount of future assessments, because they depend on factors outside our control, such as the insolvencies of other insurance companies and the market shares of other insurance companies writing in a particular state and the degree to which other companies write in coastal areas. Generally, in most states we can take a credit against our premium taxes for these assessments over a stipulated number of years. We are subject to assessments from the Louisiana LA Citizens and the TWIA. LA Citizens and TWIA have estimated plan losses due to losses incurred from the hurricanes that struck Louisiana and Texas in the third quarter of 2005, and are thereby able to levy regular and emergency assessments to participating companies and policyholders, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2005, our insurance subsidiaries were assessed $1.7 million based on estimated losses and our market shares in Louisiana and Texas. Additional assessments may follow. We do not expect such assessments to have a net financial statement impact as all such assessments are recoverable (subject to treaty limits) under our reinsurance treaties. Further, we will be able to recoup a regular assessment through a surcharge to policyholders. Such recoupments will be refunded to reinsurers as the related premiums are written and collected. We are required to collect emergency assessments, of which there have been none, directly from residential property policyholders and remit them to LA Citizens as they are collected. We continue to monitor developments with respect to various state facilities such as guaranty funds, LA Citizens, the Texas FAIR Plan Association and the TWIA. The ultimate impact of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita on these facilities is currently uncertain, but could result in the facilities recognizing a financial deficit different than the level currently estimated. They may, in turn, have the ability to assess participating insurers when financial deficits occur. However, we will not incur any net expense or loss from any such assessments due to reinsurance recoveries. We may be subject to high retaliatory taxes in several states as a result of our multistate operations, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Nearly all states impose a retaliatory tax on insurers operating in their state that are domiciled in another state. Retaliatory taxes are based on the principle that if the aggregate taxes, fees and obligations imposed by an insurer’s domiciliary state are greater than the aggregate taxes, fees and obligations imposed by the taxing state, then the difference is payable to the taxing state as a retaliatory tax. For example, the State of Texas imposes various premium-based taxes that, in the aggregate, total approximately 2.0% of gross written premiums in Texas. The State of Illinois imposes various premium-based taxes that, in the aggregate, total approximately 0.5% of gross written premiums in Illinois. The Illinois retaliatory tax provisions would require a Texas-domiciled insurer operating in Illinois to pay the 0.5% aggregate Illinois taxes plus a 1.5% incremental amount representing the difference between the Texas effective rate and the Illinois effective rate. Thus, a Texas-domiciled insurer would pay a 2.0% effective tax in Illinois while an Illinois-domiciled insurer would only pay a 0.5% effective tax. Insurance companies with multistate operations, like ours, may find themselves subject to high retaliatory taxes in several states, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We conduct most of our fronting business through our affiliated county mutual insurance company. If Texas changes its regulation of county mutual insurance companies, our financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Part of our business depends on the competitive advantage we enjoy in Texas through SCM, our affiliated county mutual insurance company, which provides much of our fronting services to national and regional carriers seeking access to the Texas insurance market. Texas county mutual insurance companies have advantages over 46 Table of Contents other types of insurance companies writing personal and commercial auto policies in the state because, among other benefits, county mutual insurers in Texas have greater rate flexibility. In 1955, the Texas Legislature prohibited the formation of new county mutual insurance companies. There are presently only 23 in existence, and, to our knowledge, only five currently provide fronting services. From time to time, the Texas Legislature has adopted modifications to the state regulations applicable to county mutual insurance companies, including modifications that limit some of the rate flexibility they enjoy. In 2003, legislation was passed in Texas that has been described as comprehensive insurance reform affecting homeowners and automobile insurance business. The most significant provisions provide for additional rate regulation and limitations on the use of credit scoring and territorial distinctions in underwriting and rating risks and the Texas Commissioner of Insurance has been given broader authority under the new law. We can provide no assurance that the Texas Legislature will not take further action that will significantly limit or eliminate the competitive advantage we currently enjoy through our affiliated county mutual insurance company. Our ability to meet ongoing cash requirements and pay dividends may be limited by our holding company structure and regulatory constraints. Republic Companies Group, Inc. operates as a holding company and does not expect to have any significant operations or assets other than its direct and indirect ownership of the equity in its subsidiaries. Dividends and other permitted payments from our operating subsidiaries are expected to be our primary source of funds to meet ongoing cash requirements, including any future debt service payments and other expenses, and to pay dividends, if any, to our stockholders. Our operating subsidiaries are subject to significant regulatory restrictions limiting their ability to declare and pay dividends. See Item 1. Business—Regulation. Current legal and regulatory activities relating to the insurance industry, including investigations into contingent commission arrangements, could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recently, the insurance industry has experienced substantial share price volatility as a result of current litigation, investigations and regulatory activity by various insurance, governmental and enforcement authorities concerning certain practices within the insurance industry. These practices include the payment of contingent commissions by insurance companies to insurance brokers and agents and the extent to which such compensation has been disclosed and the solicitation and provision of fictitious or inflated quotes for insurance coverages. We paid less than 2% of our 2005 gross written premiums in our Personal Lines and Commercial Lines segments to our independent agents pursuant to contingent commission contracts. We also paid less than 3% of our gross written premiums in our Program Management segment pursuant to contingent commission arrangements. While we believe that our contingent commissions are legally permissible and customary in the industry, at this time we are unable to predict the potential effects, if any, that these investigations may have upon these arrangements in particular or upon the insurance markets and industry business practices in general or what, if any, changes may be made to laws and regulations regarding the industry and financial reporting. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to periodic financial and market conduct examinations by state insurance departments. If these examinations identify significant findings or recommend changes to our operations, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected. The insurance departments in every state in which our insurance companies do business may conduct on-site visits and examinations of our insurance companies at any time and generally for any purpose, including review of our insurance companies’ financial condition, market conduct and relationships and transactions with affiliates. In addition, the Texas, Oklahoma and Arizona insurance departments will conduct comprehensive examinations of our insurance companies domiciled in those states every three to five years. While there were no adverse findings or recommended changes to our operations identified in the recently completed financial examinations conducted by the Arizona and Oklahoma Departments of Insurance of our 47 Table of Contents subsidiaries domiciled in those states, there can be no assurance that there will not be adverse findings or recommended changes identified by these or other state insurance departments in the future. The Texas Department of Insurance recently initiated its financial and market conduct examinations of our Texas-domiciled insurance companies for the period covering January 1, 2000 through December 31, 2004. Any adverse findings or recommended changes resulting from the Texas Department of Insurance’s examinations, or from any future examinations, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Information Technology We rely on our information technology and telecommunications systems, and the failure or disruption of these systems could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is highly dependent upon the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems. We rely on these systems to process new and renewal business, provide customer service, make claims payments and facilitate collections and cancellations, as well as to perform actuarial and other analytical functions necessary for pricing and product development. Our systems could fail of their own accord or could be disrupted by factors such as natural disasters, power disruptions or surges, failure of third party systems or support, computer hackers, terrorist attacks or other factors beyond our control. Failure or disruption of these systems, or the back-up systems, for any reason could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our results of operations. Failures in our electronic underwriting system could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have developed an automated underwriting system for our personal lines policies called RepubLink that we make available to our independent agents. RepubLink is an integral part of our success, and the growth of our personal lines business is highly dependent upon it. Problems or errors of which we are not currently aware may have occurred in connection with the installation, upgrading or maintenance of this system or may result from a major physical disaster or other calamity that causes damage to our systems generally. A loss of RepubLink for a sustained period of time could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to successfully enhance our systems or implement new systems to support existing or new products could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are in the process of developing new electronic systems to support our farm and ranch initiatives. We are also in the process of implementing new billing, commercial lines and change management systems. Some of our policy management systems are based upon technology and software that is more than a decade old. Failure to complete these initiatives or the failure to timely upgrade existing systems could disrupt our growth initiatives and adversely impact our operations. Acquisitions Acquisitions could result in operating difficulties, dilution and other harmful consequences. From time to time, we may engage in discussions regarding potential acquisitions, including potential acquisitions that could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. We may acquire whole businesses or books of business that fit our underwriting competencies from insurance companies, MGAs and other agents. The process of integrating an acquired company or book of business may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular: • We have achieved our prior success by applying a disciplined approach to underwriting and pricing in select markets that are not well served by our competitors. We may not be able to successfully implement our underwriting, claims management, pricing and product strategies in companies or books of business we acquire. 48 Table of Contents • We have limited acquisition experience and may not be able to combine efficiently an acquired company or book of business with our present financial, operational and management information systems. • We could be required to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies for an acquired privately-held company that prior to acquisition may not have been required. • An acquisition could present cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization, which could result in a loss of employees from the businesses we acquire and other adverse consequences. • Our management may have to divert its time and energy from operating our business to integration challenges. • An acquisition could dilute our book value per share or return on average equity. The anticipated benefits of any acquisition may not materialize. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt or our assumption of inadequate liabilities for losses and LAE or claims management structures, any of which could harm our financial condition. Future acquisitions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Change of Control Applicable insurance laws may make it difficult to effect a change of control of our company. Our operating insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in Texas, Oklahoma and Arizona. Before a person can acquire control of an insurance company domiciled in any of these states, prior written approval must be obtained from the domiciliary state insurance department. Acquisition of control would be presumed on the acquisition of 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock, unless these regulators determine otherwise. Prior to granting approval of an application to acquire control of a domestic insurer, each domiciliary state insurance department will consider factors such as: • the financial strength of the acquirer; • the integrity and management experience of the acquirer’s board of directors and executive officers; • the acquirer’s plans for the management of the insurer; • the acquirer’s plans to declare dividends, sell assets or incur debt; • the acquirer’s plans for the future operations of the domestic insurer; and • any anti-competitive results that may arise from the consummation of the acquisition of control. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, including transactions that some or all of our stockholders might consider desirable. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors or otherwise effect a change of control of our company, which could diminish the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make it more difficult for stockholders to replace directors. In addition, these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that a stockholder might consider favorable, and may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may limit the ability of an “interested stockholder” to engage in business combinations 49 Table of Contents with us. An interested stockholder is defined to include persons owning 15% or more of any class of our outstanding voting stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain the following provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect: • stockholders may not act by written consent; • stockholders cannot call stockholder meetings and have limited ability to bring business before a meeting of stockholders; • stockholders have limited ability to amend our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; • our board of directors may authorize the issuance of preferred stock with such rights, powers and privileges as the board deems appropriate; and • our directors may be removed only for “cause.” These provisions may make it difficult for stockholders to replace management or our directors and could have the effect of discouraging a future takeover attempt that is not approved by our board of directors but that individual stockholders might consider favorable. A few large stockholders may be able to influence stockholder decisions, which may conflict with other stockholder interests. Greenhill Capital Partners, L.P. and affiliates own approximately 20.0% of our common stock and Brazos Equity Fund 2000, L.P. and affiliates beneficially own approximately 6.7% of our common stock. Banc of America Capital Investors SBIC, L.P. and affiliates (“BACI”) beneficially own approximately 18.0% of our common stock. BACI has informed us that (1) they entered into a voting trust agreement with an independent, unaffiliated trust company pursuant to which BACI has deposited all of its shares of common stock above 9% of the common shares outstanding into a voting trust, (2) generally, the voting trustee will vote such shares in proportion to, or with the majority of, the non-BACI votes cast or abstained from voting and (3) under the voting trust agreement, BACI has the power to dispose or to direct the disposition of the BACI shares and has the right to receive all dividends paid on its shares. As a result of their ownership position, these stockholders have the ability to significantly influence matters requiring stockholder approval, including: • the election of directors; • mergers, consolidations or acquisitions; • the sale of all or substantially all of our assets; • the amendment of our charter; and • our dissolution. These concentrations of ownership may delay, deter or prevent acts that would result in a change of control favored by our other stockholders. As a result, the market price of our common stock could decline or stockholders might not receive a change of control premium over the then-current market price of our common stock. The interests of these large stockholders may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Item 1.B. Unresolved Staff Comments. NONE 