Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Such factors could have a significant impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. We believe the most significant of these risks and uncertainties are as follows: Actual or potential conflicts of interest are likely to develop between us and Messrs. Rosato and Gallagher. Thomas P. Rosato and Gerard J. Gallagher, the selling members of TSS/Vortech, continue to own significant businesses other than TSS/Vortech that are not owned or controlled by us. We will have ongoing business relationships with certain of these businesses of the selling members. This will likely create actual or potential conflicts of interest between the selling members, who are executive officers and members of our Board of Directors and thus in a position to influence corporate decisions, and us. We have a history of net losses, and we may experience net losses in the future. We have incurred significant net losses since our inception. For example, our net losses for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were approximately $18.8 million and $32.9 million, respectively. Although we have made efforts to align costs with sales and gross margin volume in, there can be no guarantee that we will be successful in achieving, sustaining or increasing profitability in 2010 or beyond. The severity of the current economic downturn and rapidly changing competitive marketplace has created a volatile and challenging business climate, which continue to negatively impact our customers and their spending and investment decisions. We may not be able to generate the level of revenue necessary to achieve and maintain sustainable profitability, particularly as we continue to incur significant sales and marketing and administrative expenses. Any failure to maintain and grow our revenue volumes would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 17 As a result of our acquisitions, we have substantial amounts of goodwill and intangible assets, and changes in future business conditions could cause these assets to become impaired, requiring substantial write-downs that would adversely affect our operating results. Our acquisitions were accounted for as purchases and involved purchase prices well in excess of tangible asset values, resulting in the creation of a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. Since December 31, 2006, we completed the acquisitions of TSS/Vortech, Comm Site , Innovative, Rubicon, and SMLB. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we do not amortize goodwill and intangible assets acquired in a purchase business combination that are determined to have indefinite useful lives, but instead review them annually (or more frequently if impairment indicators arise) for impairment. To the extent we determine that such an asset has been impaired, we will write-down its carrying value on our balance sheet and book an impairment charge in our statement of operations. In 2009 and 2008, we conducted such analyses that resulted in impairment loss on goodwill of $0.3 million and $15.8 million, respectively. Additionally during the year ended December 31, 2009, we evaluated our customer relationships in light of the bookings below anticipated levels, resulting in impairment of approximately $9.9 million. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, our net carrying value of goodwill and other indefinite lived intangibles was $3.8 million and $3.7 million, respectively. Finally in 2008, to consolidate our product offerings under a single brand name Fortress International Group, Inc., we abandoned acquired trade names resulting in an impairment loss of approximately $5.0 million in 2008. We amortize intangible assets with estimable useful lives over their respective estimated useful lives to their estimated residual values, and also review them for impairment. If, as a result of acquisitions or otherwise, the amount of intangible assets being amortized increases, so will our depreciation and amortization charges in future periods. Recent global economic trends could adversely affect our business, liquidity and financial results. Recent global economic conditions, including disruption of financial markets, could adversely affect our business and results of operations, primarily, through limiting our access to credit and debt and equity financing and disrupting our clients’ businesses. The reduction in financial institutions’ willingness or ability to lend has increased the cost of capital and reduced the availability of credit. Although we currently believe that the financial institutions with whom we do business will be able to fulfill their commitments to us, there is no assurance that those institutions will be able to continue to do so, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, continuation or worsening of general market conditions in the United States or other national economies important to our businesses may adversely affect our clients’ level of spending, ability to obtain financing, and ability to make timely payments to us for our services, which could require us to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, negatively impact our days sales outstanding and adversely affect our results of operations. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers. We derive and believe that we will continue to derive in the near term, a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers. To the extent that any significant customer uses less of our services or terminates its relationship with us, our revenues could decline significantly, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our three and two largest customers accounted for approximately 20% and 31% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Additionally, during the fourth quarter 2009, a customer, comprising 58% of our total backlog at December 31, 2009, entered into a definitive merger agreement. We are unable determine if the merger agreement will close, or if it does, the affect it may have on continued business with our customer. Most of our contracts may be canceled on short notice, so our revenue and potential profits are not guaranteed. Most of our contracts are cancelable on short notice by the customer either at its convenience or upon our default. If one of our customers terminates a contract at its convenience, then we typically are able to recover only costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to termination, which could prevent us from recognizing all of our potential revenue and profit from that contract. If one of our customers terminates the contract due to our default, we could be liable for excess costs incurred by the customer in re-procuring services from another source, as well as other costs. Many of our contracts, including our service agreements, are periodically open to public bid. We may not be the successful bidder on its existing contracts that are re-bid. We also provide an increasing portion of our services on a non-recurring, project-by-project basis. We could experience a reduction in our revenue, profitability and liquidity if: · our customers cancel a significant number of contracts; · we fails to win a significant number of its existing contracts upon re-bid; or · we complete the required work under a significant number of our non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects. 18 Our backlog varies and is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations and is, therefore, not guaranteed to be recognized as revenue. We cannot assure that the revenues attributed to uncompleted projects under contract will be realized or, if realized, will result in profits. Included in our backlog is the maximum amount of all uncompleted contracts and task order contracts, or a lesser amount if we do not reasonably expect to be issued task orders for the maximum amount of such contracts. We perform services only when purchase orders are issued under the associated contracts. The backlog amounts are estimates, subject to change or cancellation, and accordingly, the actual customer purchase orders to perform work may vary significantly in scope and amount from the backlog amounts. Accordingly, we cannot provide any assurance that we will in fact be awarded the maximum amount of such contracts or be awarded any amount at all. Our backlog as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 was approximately $47.1 million and $58.7 million, respectively. This decline in our backlog is attributable to a $12.4 million contract cancellation arising from a significant customer’s sale of its project in first quarter 2010. The majority of our projects are accounted for on the percentage-of-completion method, and if actual results vary from the assumptions made in estimating percentage-of-completion, our revenue and income could be reduced. We generally recognize revenue on our projects on the percentage-of-completion method. Under the percentage-of-completion method, we record revenue as work on the contract progresses. The cumulative amount of revenue recorded on a contract at a specified point in time is that percentage of total estimated revenue that incurred costs to date bear to estimated total expected contract costs. The percentage-of-completion method therefore relies on estimates of total expected contract costs. Contract revenue and total cost estimates are reviewed and revised periodically as the work progresses. Adjustments are reflected in contract revenue in the fiscal period when such estimates are revised. Estimates are based on management’s reasonable assumptions and experience, but are only estimates. Variation between actual results and estimates on a large project or on a number of smaller projects could be material. We immediately recognize the full amount of the estimated loss on a contract when our estimates indicate such a loss. Any such loss would reduce our revenue and income. We submit change orders to our customers for work we perform beyond the scope of some of our contracts. If our customers do not approve these change orders, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. We typically submit change orders under some of our contracts for payment of work performed beyond the initial contractual requirements. The applicable customers may not approve or may contest these change orders and we cannot assure you that these claims will be approved in whole, in part or at all. If these claims are not approved, our net income and results of operations could be adversely impacted. We may not accurately estimate the costs associated with services provided under fixed-price contracts, which could impair our financial performance. A portion of our revenue is derived from fixed price contracts. Under these contracts, we set the price of our services and assume the risk that the costs associated with our performance may be greater than we anticipated. Our profitability is therefore dependent upon our ability to estimate accurately the costs associated with our services. These costs may be affected by a variety of factors, such as lower than anticipated productivity, conditions at the work sites differing materially from what was anticipated at the time we bid on the contract, and higher than expected costs of materials and labor. Certain agreements or projects could have lower margins than anticipated or losses if actual costs for contracts exceed our estimates, which could reduce our profitability and liquidity. Failure to properly manage projects may result in costs or claims. Our engagements often involve relatively large scale, highly complex projects. The quality of our performance on such projects depends in large part upon our ability to manage the customer relationship, to manage effectively the project and to deploy appropriate resources, including third-party contractors and our own personnel, in a timely manner. Any defects, errors or failure to meet customers’ expectations could result in claims for substantial damages against us. We currently maintain comprehensive general liability, umbrella, and professional liability insurance policies. We cannot be certain that the insurance coverage we carry to cover such claims will be adequate to protect us from the full impact of such claims. Moreover, in certain instances, we guarantee customers that we will complete a project by a scheduled date or that the project will achieve certain performance standards. If the project experiences a performance problem, we may not be able to recover the additional costs we will incur, which could exceed revenues realized from a project. Finally, if we underestimate the resources or time we need to complete a project with capped or fixed fees, our operating results could be seriously harmed. 19 We may choose, or be required, to pay our subcontractors even if our customers do not pay, or delay paying, us for the related services. We use subcontractors to perform portions of our services and to manage work flow. In some cases, we pay our subcontractors before our customers pay us for the related services. If we choose, or are required, to pay our subcontractors for work performed for customers who fail to pay, or delay paying us for the related work, we could experience a decrease in profitability and liquidity. We operate in a highly competitive industry, which could reduce our growth opportunities, revenue and operating results. The mission-critical IT industry in which we operate is highly competitive. We often compete with other IT consulting and integration companies, including several that are large domestic companies that may have financial, technical and marketing resources that exceed our own. Our competitors may develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are equal or superior in both price and quality to our services, and we may not be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position. Although our customers currently outsource a significant portion of these services to us and our competitors, we can offer no assurance that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource specialty contracting services to us in the future. The industries we serve have experienced and may continue to experience rapid technological, structural and competitive changes that could reduce the need for our services and adversely affect our revenues. The mission-critical IT industry is characterized by rapid technological change, intense competition and changing consumer and data center needs. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from customers in the mission-critical IT industry. New technologies, or upgrades to existing technologies by customers, could reduce the need for our services and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Improvements in existing technology may allow companies to improve their networks without physically upgrading them. Reduced demand for our services or a loss of a significant customer could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. A reduction in spending due to the economic downturn could result in a decrease in demand for our services. If federal, state or local government or private enterprise spending on mission-critical related capital expenditures decreases, the demand for services like those provided by us would likely decline. This decrease could reduce our opportunity for growth, increase our marketing and sales costs, and reduce the prices we can charge for services, which could reduce our revenue and operating results. We may be unable to obtain sufficient bonding capacity to support certain service offerings. Some of our contracts require performance and payment bonds. Bonding capacity for construction projects has become increasingly difficult to obtain, and bonding companies are denying or restricting coverage to an increasing number of contractors. Companies that have been successful in renewing or obtaining coverage have sometimes been required to post additional collateral to secure the same amount of bonds which would reduce availability under any credit facility. We may not be able to maintain a sufficient level of bonding capacity in the future, which could preclude us from being able to bid for certain contracts and successfully contract with certain customers. In addition, even if we are able to successfully renew or obtain performance or payment bonds in the future, we may be required to post letters of credit in connection with the bonds. 20 We may be unable to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel; the loss of any of our key executive officers may adversely affect our business. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled, knowledgeable, sophisticated and qualified managerial, professional and technical personnel. Our business involves the development of tailored solutions for customers, a process that relies heavily upon the expertise and services of employees. Accordingly, our employees are one of our most valuable resources. Competition for skilled personnel, especially those with security clearance, is intense in our industry. Recruiting and training these personnel require substantial resources. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could increase our costs of performing our contractual obligations, reduce our ability to efficiently satisfy our customers’ needs, limit our ability to win new business and constrain our future growth. Our business is managed by a small number of key executive officers, including Mr. Weiss, our Vice-Chairman, Mr. Rosato, our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Gallagher, our President and Chief Operating Officer, and Mr. Dec, our Chief Financial Officer. The loss of any of these key executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business. A portion of our business depends upon obtaining and maintaining required security clearances, and our failure to do so could result in termination of certain of our contracts or cause us to be unable to bid or rebid on certain contracts. Some United States government projects require our employees to maintain various levels of security clearances, and we may be required to maintain certain facility security clearances complying with United States government requirements. Obtaining and maintaining security clearances for employees involve a lengthy process, and it is difficult to identify, recruit and retain employees who already hold security clearances. If our employees are unable to obtain or retain security clearances or if such employees who hold security clearances terminate their employment, the customer whose work requires cleared employees could terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon expiration. To the extent we are not able to engage employees with the required security clearances for a particular contract, we may not be able bid on or win new contracts, or effectively re-bid on expiring contracts, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, we expect that some of the contracts on which we will bid will require us to demonstrate our ability to obtain facility security clearances and perform work with employees who hold specified types of security clearances. A facility security clearance is an administrative determination that a particular facility is eligible for access to classified information or an award of a classified contract. Although contracts may be awarded prior to the issuance of a facility security clearance, in such cases the contractor is processed for facility security clearance at the appropriate level and must meet the eligibility requirements for access to classified information. A contractor or prospective contractor must meet certain eligibility requirements before it can be processed for facility security clearance. Our ability to obtain and maintain facility security clearances has a direct impact on our ability to compete for and perform United States government projects, the performance of which requires access to classified information. Our failure to comply with the regulations of the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration and other state and local agencies that oversee safety compliance could reduce our revenue, profitability and liquidity. The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended, or OSHA, establishes certain employer responsibilities, including maintenance of a workplace free of recognized hazards likely to cause death or serious injury, compliance with standards promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and various record keeping, disclosure and procedural requirements. Various standards, including standards for notices of hazards, safety in excavation and demolition work, may apply to our operations. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in the ordinary course of our business in complying with OSHA and other state and local laws and regulations. 21 Our quarterly revenue, operating results and profitability will vary. Our revenue, operating results and profitability may fluctuate significantly and unpredictably in the future. In particular, the changes in contract mix that is inherent to our business may significantly affect our results. Factors that may contribute to the variability of our revenue, operating results or profitability include: · Fluctuations in revenue earned on contracts; · Commencement, completion and termination of contracts, especially contracts relating to our major customers; · Declines in backlog that are not replaced; · Additions and departures of key personnel; · Strategic decisions by us and our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments and changes in business strategy; · General economic conditions; · Contract mix and the extent of subcontractor use; and · Any seasonality of our business. Therefore, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. Our quarterly operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which in turn may have an adverse affect on the market price of our common stock. If we are unable to engage appropriate subcontractors or if our subcontractors fail to perform their contractual obligations, our performance as a prime contractor and ability to obtain future business could be materially and adversely impacted. Our contract performance may involve the engagement of subcontracts to other companies upon which we rely to perform all or a portion of the work we are obligated to deliver to our customers. Our inability to find and engage appropriate subcontractors or a failure by one or more of our subcontractors to satisfactorily deliver on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies and/or perform the agreed-upon services may materially and adversely affect our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor. In extreme cases, a subcontractor’s performance deficiency could result in the customer terminating the contract for default with us. A default termination could expose us to liability for excess costs of reprocurement by the customer and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and task orders. 22 International operations expose us to legal, political and economic risks in different countries and currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial results. Revenues attributable to our international operations comprised less than 1% of our total revenues for the years ended 2009 and 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we reserved accounts receivable and wrote-off other assets totaling $0.5 million associated with an international customer that was unable to secure additional funding. There are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: • lack of developed legal systems to enforce contractual rights; • greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • imposition of governmental controls; • political and economic instability; • changes in U.S. and other national government policies affecting the markets for our services; • changes in regulatory practices, tariffs and taxes; • potential non-compliance with a wide variety of non-U.S. laws and regulations; and • general economic and political conditions in these foreign markets. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Because we do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, for use in the operations and expansion of our business. As a result, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination as to the declaration and payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on factors our board of directors deems relevant, including, among others, our results of operations, financial condition and cash requirements, business prospects, and the terms of our credit facilities and other financing arrangements. Accordingly, realization of a gain on stockholders’ investments will depend on the appreciation of the price of our common stock. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders purchased their shares. The significant number of our outstanding options to purchase units and convertible notes may place a ceiling on, or otherwise adversely affect the value of our common stock. Unvested restricted stock, convertible unsecured promissory notes, and options to purchase units were outstanding at December 31, 2009 to purchase 925,601, 366,667 and 700,000 shares of common stock, respectively. We have 13,361,763 outstanding shares of common stock as of March 19, 2009. These dilutive securities represent a very significant market overhang that may limit the value of our common stock, at least in the near term and unless and until we can substantially grow our business. 23 Our insiders hold a significant portion of our outstanding common stock. Future sales of common stock by these insiders may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our officers and directors hold approximately 5.2 million shares of commons stock or 41% of our outstanding common shares as of December 31, 2009. Stock sales by our directors and officers are subject to compliance with our Code of Conduct and preapproval process from the Chief Financial Officer. Sales of a substantial number of these shares in the public market could decrease the market price of our common stock. In addition, the perception that such sales might occur may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Future issuances or sales of our common stock could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Increased scrutiny of financial disclosure could adversely affect investor confidence and any restatement of earnings could increase litigation risks and limit our ability to access the capital markets. Congress, the Securities and Exchange Commission other regulatory authorities and the media are intensely scrutinizing a number of financial reporting issues and practices. If we were required to restate our financial statements as a result of a determination that we had incorrectly applied generally accepted accounting principles, that restatement could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets or the trading price of our securities. The recent scrutiny regarding financial reporting has also resulted in an increase in litigation. There can be no assurance that any such litigation against us would not materially adversely affect our business or the trading price of our securities. 24 Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting for fiscal 2007 and beyond and will require an independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of these controls for fiscal 2010 and beyond. Any delays or difficulty in satisfying these requirements could adversely affect our future results of operations and our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with an established internal control framework and to report on our conclusion as to the effectiveness of our internal controls for our year ending December 31, 2009 and subsequent years. It will also require our independent registered public accounting firm to test, evaluate and report on effectiveness of our internal controls for our ending December 31, 2010. It may cost us more than we expect to comply with these control and procedure-related requirements. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, assessed the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009. In making this assessment, our management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (“COSO”) of the Treadway Commission’s Internal Control-Integrated Framework. As a result of this assessment, we have determined that our internal control over financial reporting was ineffective as of December 31, 2009. We had neither the resources, nor the personnel, to provide an adequate control environment. The following material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting existed at December 31, 2009: (i) we did not have the ability to properly or completely segregate duties; (ii) we lacked formal documentation of policies and procedures that were in place; and (iii) controls are inadequate to reasonably assume compliance with generally accepted accounting principles related to revenue. During 2010 we will address the material weaknesses identified as of December 31, 2009. We plan to continue working with a certified public accounting firm to assist us in our documentation and testing of internal controls over financial reporting in 2010. Any failure to implement required new and improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. This Annual Report on Form 10-K does not include an attestation report of our registered public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. Management’s report was not subject to attestation by our registered public accounting firm pursuant to temporary rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission that permit the company to provide only management’s report in this annual report on Form 10-K. Our Securities Will Be Delisted From The NASDAQ Capital Market. On September 25, 2009, we received notice from the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Department that our common stock had failed to maintain a minimum bid price of US $1.00 per share over a period of 30 consecutive trading days, as required by Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). In accordance with Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we were provided with a grace period of 180 calendar days, or until March 24, 2010, to regain compliance with this requirement. To regain compliance, our common stock must have achieved a closing bid price of at least US $1.00 for a minimum of ten consecutive trading days. On March 25, 2010 we received an additional notice that our shares would be delisted on April 6, 2010 as we had not regained compliance. On March 10, 2010, our Board of Directors unanimously voted to voluntarily delist common stock from the NASDAQ Capital Market pursuant to NASDAQ Stock Market Rule 5840(j). In connection therewith, we notified NASDAQ on March 12, 2010 of our intention to file a Form 25, Notification of Removal from Listing and/or Registration with the SEC on or about March 22, 2010. We filed the Form 25 on that date, and anticipates that the Form 25 will become effective 10 days following its filing or approximately April 1, 2010. We are working with several market makers and it is anticipated that the common stock will be quoted on OTC Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”) , a centralized electronic quotation service for over-the-counter securities operated by NASDAQ, following the delisting of the common stock from NASDAQ. We expect that the common stock will continue to trade on OTCBB so long as market makers demonstrate an interest in trading in the common stock. We will continue to file periodic reports with the SEC pursuant to the requirements of Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. However, there is no assurance that a regular trading market for our common stock will be initiated or sustainable on the OTC BB. Our Shares are Thinly Traded and May Not be Readily Marketable Our shares are not widely traded, and daily trading volume is generally very low compared with most publicly traded companies. As a result, you may not be able to readily resell your shares in the company. Our common stock may be characterized as a “penny stock” under applicable SEC regulation. The common stock may be characterized as “penny stock” under SEC regulations. As such, broker-dealers dealing in the common stock may be subject to the disclosure rules for transactions involving penny stocks, which generally require that, prior to a purchase, the broker-dealer determine if purchasing the common stock is suitable for the applicable purchaser. The broker-dealer must also obtain the written consent of the applicable purchasers to purchase the common stock and disclose the best bid and offer prices available for the common stock and the price at which the broker-dealer last purchased or sold the common stock. These additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers may discourage them from effecting transactions in the common stock, which could make it difficult for an investor to sell his, her or its shares at any given time. 25 Item1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 