Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. Risks Relating to Our Leverage Our substantial leverage could harm our business by limiting our available cash and our access to additional capital and, to the extent of our variable rate indebtedness, exposes us to interest rate risk. We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2007, our total consolidated indebtedness was $1,140.2 million. Our leverage increased upon the closing of our acquisition of MAPS, because we financed part of the acquisition with an incremental term loan under the Second Amendment to the Credit Agreement. Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: • It may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes on favorable terms or at all; • A substantial portion of our cash flows from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and thus will not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities; • The debt service requirements of our other indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to make payments on the Senior Notes and Senior Subordinated Notes issued by Cooper-Standard Automotive Inc. in connection with the 2004 Acquisition (the ‘‘Notes’’); • It may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that are less highly leveraged; • It may restrict our ability to make strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures; and • We may be more vulnerable than a less highly-leveraged company to a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, or we may be unable to carry out the desired amount of capital spending to support our growth. Our cash paid for interest for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $87.6 million, which excludes the amortization of $4.9 million of debt issuance costs. At December 31, 2007, we had $554.3 million of debt with floating interest rates, including $270.3 million managed by the use of interest rate swap contracts to convert the variable rate characteristic to fixed rate. If interest rates increase, assuming no principal repayments or use of financial derivatives, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash available for servicing our indebtedness, including the Notes, would decrease. After considering the effects of certain interest rate swap contracts we entered into during 2007, a 1% increase in the average interest rate of our variable rate indebtedness would increase future interest expense by approximately $2 .8 million per year. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. The senior credit agreement and the indentures under which the Notes were issued contain a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness or issue redeemable preferred stock; • pay dividends and repurchase our capital stock; • issue stock of subsidiaries; • make certain investments; 13 Table of Contents • enter into agreements that restrict dividends from subsidiaries; • transfer or sell assets; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; • incur liens; • engage in mergers, amalgamations, or consolidations; and • make capital expenditures. In addition, under the senior credit agreement, we are required to satisfy specified financial ratios and tests. Our ability to comply with those provisions may be affected by events beyond our control, and may limit our ability to comply with those required ratios and tests. Risks Relating to Our Business We are highly dependent on the automotive industry. Our customers are automobile manufacturers and their suppliers whose production volumes are dependent upon general economic conditions and the level of consumer spending. The volume of global vehicle production has fluctuated considerably from year to year, and such fluctuations may give rise to fluctuations in the demand for our products. Demand for new vehicles fluctuates in response to overall economic conditions and is particularly sensitive to changes in interest rates, consumer confidence, and fuel costs. In addition, to the extent our production volumes have been positively impacted by OEM new vehicle sales incentives, these sales incentives may not be sustained or may cease to favorably impact our sales. If any of these or other factors leads to a decline in new vehicle production, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Further, to the extent that the financial condition of any of our largest customers deteriorates or results i n bankruptcy, our financial position and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Increasing competitiveness in the automotive industry has also led OEMs to pressure us to lower prices we charge for our products. Price reductions have impacted our sales and profit margins. If we are not able to offset price reductions through improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, price reductions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Increasing costs for or reduced availability of manufactured components and raw materials may adversely affect our profitability. The principal raw materials we purchase include fabricated metal-based components, synthetic rubber, carbon black, and natural rubber. Raw materials comprise the largest component of our costs, representing approximately 49% of our total costs during the year ended December 31, 2007. A significant increase in the price of these items could materially increase our operating costs and materially and adversely affect our profit margins because it is generally difficult to pass through these increased costs to our customers. For example, we have experienced significant price increases in our raw steel and steel-related component purchases as a result of increased global demand. Our largest single raw material purchase is steel, and it comprised approximately 11% of our total material costs during the year ended December 31, 2007. Because we purchase various types of raw materials and manufactured components, we may be materially and adversely affected by the failure of our suppliers of those materials to perform as expected. This non-performance may consist of delivery delays or failures caused by production issues or delivery of non-conforming products. The risk of non-performance may also result from the insolvency or bankruptcy of one or more of our suppliers. Our suppliers’ ability to supply products to us is also subject to a number of risks, including availability of raw materials, such as steel and natural rubber, destruction of their facilities, or work stoppages. In addition, our failure to promptly pay, or order sufficient quantities of inventory from our suppliers may increase the cost of products we purchase or may lead to suppliers refusing to sell products to us at all. Our efforts to protect against and to minimize these risks may not always be effective. 14 Table of Contents Our business would be materially and adversely affected if we lost a significant portion of business from any of our largest customers. For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 27%, 20%, and 8% of our sales were to Ford, General Motors, and Chrysler, respectively. To compete effectively, we must continue to satisfy these and other customers’ pricing, service, technology, and increasingly stringent quality and reliability requirements. Additionally, our revenues may be affected by decreases in these three manufacturers’ businesses or market shares. The market shares of these customers have declined in recent years and may continue to decline in the future. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to maintain or increase our sales to these or any other customers. The loss of, or significant reduction in purchases by, one of these major customers or the loss of all of the contracts relating to certain major platforms of one of these customers could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We could be adversely affected if we are unable to continue to compete successfully in the highly competitive automotive parts industry. The automotive parts industry is highly competitive. We face numerous competitors in each of the product lines we serve. In general, there are three or more significant competitors for most of the products offered by our company and numerous smaller competitors. We also face increased competition for certain of our products from suppliers producing in lower-cost countries such as Korea and China, especially for certain lower-technology noise, vibration and harshness control products that have physical characteristics that make long-distance shipping more feasible and economical. We may not be able to continue to compete favorably and increased competition in our markets may have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to other risks associated with our non-U.S. operations. We have significant manufacturing operations outside the United States, including joint ventures and other alliances. Our operations are located in 18 countries and we export to several other countries. In 2007, approximately 66% of our net sales originated outside the United States. Risks are inherent in international operations, including: • exchange controls and currency restrictions; • currency fluctuations and devaluations; • changes in local economic conditions; • changes in laws and regulations, including the imposition of embargos; • exposure to possible expropriation or other government actions; and • unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against American interests. These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. For example, we are faced with potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations and we have to design local solutions to manage credit risks of local customers and distributors. Also, the cost and complexity of streamlining operations in certain European countries is greater than would be the case in the United States, due primarily to labor laws in those countries that can make reducing employment levels more time-consuming and expensive than in the United States. Our flexibility in our foreign operations can also be somewhat limited by agreements we have entered into with our foreign joint venture partners. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing economic, social, and political conditions. We may not continue to succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business, and failure to do so could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our sales outside the United States expose us to currency risks. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, at a constant level of business, our reported international sales and earnings will be reduced because the local currency will translate into fewer U.S. dollars. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur a currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from the currency in which it receives revenues. 15 Table of Contents Given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to manage our currency transaction and/or translation risks effectively, or volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our lean manufacturing and other cost savings plans may not be effective. Our operations strategy includes cutting costs by reducing product errors, inventory levels, operator motion, overproduction, and waiting while fostering the increased flow of material, information, and communication. The cost savings that we anticipate from these initiatives may not be achieved on schedule or at the level anticipated by management. If we are unable to realize these anticipated savings, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Moreover, the implementation of cost saving plans and facilities integration may disrupt our operations and performance. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability and warranty and recall claims that may be brought against us. We may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. Accordingly, we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. In addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of that product if the defect or the alleged defect relates to automotive safety. Our costs associated with providing product warranties could be material. Product liability, warranty, and recall costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Work stoppages or similar difficulties could disrupt our operations. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 44% of our employees were represented by unions, and approximately 16% of our employees were union represented employees located in the United States. It is possible that our workforce will become more unionized in the future. A work stoppage at one or more of our plants may have a material adverse effect on our business. Collective bargaining agreements at three of our North American facilities are due to expire in 2008, and we will be engaged in negotiations with unions at these facilities with respect to new contracts. Unionization activities could also increase our costs, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability. We may be subject to work stoppages and may be, affected by other labor disputes. Additionally, a work stoppage at one or more of our customers or our customers’ suppliers could adversely affect our operations if an alternative source of supply were not readily available. Stoppages by employees of our customers also could result in reduced demand for our products and have material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends in part on our development of improved products, and our efforts may fail to meet the needs of customers on a timely or cost-effective basis. Our continued success depends on our ability to maintain advanced technological capabilities, machinery, and knowledge necessary to adapt to changing market demands as well as to develop and commercialize innovative products. We may not be able to develop new products as successfully as in the past or be able to keep pace with technological developments by our competitors and the industry generally. In addition, we may develop specific technologies and capabilities in anticipation of customers’ demands for new innovations and technologies. If such demand does not materialize, we may be unable to recover the costs incurred in such programs. If we are unable to recover these costs or if any such programs do not progress as expected, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to operate our company effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel. Our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. In addition, our future success will depend on, among other 16 Table of Contents factors, our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel, particularly research and development engineers and technical sales professionals. The loss of the services of any of our key employees or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business or business prospects. Our Sponsors may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. Our Sponsors beneficially own approximately 98.5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Additionally, we have entered into a stockholders’ agreement with the Sponsors that grants them certain preemptive rights to purchase additional equity and rights to designate members of our Board of Directors. As a result, our Sponsors have control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction and have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders regardless of whether or not other stockholders or noteholders believe that any such transactions are in their own best interests. Additionally, our Sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Our Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as our Sponsors continue to own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, even if such amount is less than 50%, they will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. Our intellectual property portfolio is subject to legal challenges. We have developed and actively pursue developing proprietary technology in the automotive industry and rely on intellectual property laws and a number of patents in many jurisdictions to protect such technology. However, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without authorization. If we had to litigate to protect these rights, any proceedings could be costly, and we may not prevail. We also face increasing exposure to the claims of others for infringement of intellectual property rights. We may have material intellectual property claims asserted against us in the future and could incur significant costs or losses related to such claims. Our pension plans are currently underfunded and we may have to make cash payments to the plans, reducing the cash available for our business. We sponsor various pension plans worldwide that are underfunded and will require cash payments. Additionally, if the performance of the assets in our pension plans does not meet our expectations, or if other actuarial assumptions are modified, our required contributions may be higher than we expect. If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to fund our worldwide pension liability, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek additional capital, or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007, our $256.0 million projected benefit obligation (‘‘PBO’’) for U.S. pension benefit obligations exceeded the fair value of the relevant plans’ assets, which totaled $225.0 million, by $31.0 million. Additionally, the international employees’ plans’ PBO exceeded plan assets by approximately $80.4 million at December 31, 2007. The PBO for other postretirement benefits (‘‘OPEB’’) was $80.9 million at December 31, 2007. Our estimated funding requirement for pensions and OPEB during 2008 is approximately $37.0 million. Net periodic pension costs for U.S. and international plans, including pension benefits and OPEB, were $24.8 million and $19.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, respectively. See ‘‘Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data’’ (espe cially Notes 9 and 10). We are subject to a broad range of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to a broad range of federal, state, and local environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations in the United States and other countries, including those governing emissions to air, discharges to water, noise and odor emissions; the generation, handling, storage, transportation, 17 Table of Contents treatment, and disposal of waste materials; the cleanup of contaminated properties; and human health and safety. We may incur substantial costs associated with hazardous substance contamination or exposure, including cleanup costs, fines, and civil or criminal sanctions, third party property or natural resource damage, or personal injury claims, or costs to upgrade or replace existing equipment, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws or non-compliance with environmental permits required at our locations. In addition, many of our current and former facilities are located on properties with long histories of industrial or commercial operations and some of these properties have been subject to certain environmental investigations and remediation activities. Because some environmental laws (such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act) can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup upon any of the current or former owners or operators, retroa ctively and regardless of fault, we could become liable for investigating or remediating contamination at these or other properties (including offsite locations). We may not always be in complete compliance with all applicable requirements of environmental law or regulation, and we may incur material costs or liabilities in connection with such requirements. In addition, new environmental requirements or changes to existing requirements, or in their enforcement, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We have made and will continue to make expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. While our costs to defend and settle claims arising under environmental laws in the past have not been material, such costs may be material in the future. For more information about our environmental compliance and potential environmental liabilities, see ‘‘Item 1. Business – Environmental.’’ If our acquisition strategy is not successful, we may not achieve our growth and profit objectives. We may selectively pursue complementary acquisitions in the future as part of our growth strategy. While we will evaluate business opportunities on a regular basis, we may not be successful in identifying any attractive acquisitions. We may not have, or be able to raise on acceptable terms, sufficient financial resources to make acquisitions. In addition, any acquisitions we make will be subject to all of the risks inherent in an acquisition strategy, including integrating financial and operational reporting systems; establishing satisfactory budgetary and other financial controls; funding increased capital needs and overhead expenses; obtaining management personnel required for expanded operations; and funding cash flow shortages that may occur if anticipated sales and revenues are not realized or are delayed, whether by general economic or market conditions or unforeseen internal difficulties. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. See ‘‘Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources.’’ If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek additional capital, or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations to attempt to meet our debt service and other obligations. The Senior Credit Facilities and the indentures under which the Senior Notes and the Senior Subordinated Notes were issued restrict our ability to use the proceeds from asset sales. We may not be able to consummate those asset sales to raise capital or sell assets at prices that we believe are fair and proceeds that we do receive may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Despite our current leverage, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks that we and our subsidiaries face. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Our revolving credit facilities provide commitments of up to $125.0 million, of which $101.0 million was available for future borrowings as of December 31, 2007. 18 Table of Contents Available Information The Company makes available free of charge on or through its Internet website its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (‘‘SEC’’). Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 