Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Such factors could have a significant impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. We believe the most significant of these risks and uncertainties are as follows: We incurred a net loss in 2013 and we may experience net losses in the future. We experienced a net loss for the year ended December 31, 2013 of $2.7 million. Although we were profitable in 2011 and 2010, we had a history of net losses from inception through 2009 and again in 2012 and 2013. Although we have made efforts to align costs with sales and gross margin volume, there can be no guarantee that we will be successful in sustaining or increasing profitability in 2014 or beyond. The uncertainty of the current economic environment and rapidly changing competitive marketplace has created a volatile and challenging business climate, which may continue to negatively impact our customers and their spending and investment decisions. We may not be able to generate the level of revenue necessary to achieve and maintain sustainable profitability, particularly as we continue to incur significant sales and marketing and administrative expenses. Any failure to maintain and grow our revenue volumes would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We have substantial amounts of goodwill and other intangibles, and changes in future business conditions could cause these assets to become impaired, requiring substantial write-downs that would adversely affect our operating results. We have substantial amounts of goodwill and other intangibles resulting from prior acquisitions of businesses, including the acquisition of the systems integration business from arvato digital services, LLC. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we do not amortize goodwill and intangible assets acquired in a purchase business combination that are determined to have indefinite useful lives, but instead review them annually (or more frequently if impairment indicators arise) for impairment. We are amortizing certain other intangibles over their useful lives. To the extent we determine that such assets have been impaired, we will write-down their carrying value on our balance sheet and book an impairment charge in our statement of operations. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we conducted such analyses that resulted in no impairment. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we recorded an impairment loss on goodwill of $2.1 million after a decline in overall market capitalization was deemed to indicate a possible impairment of goodwill during the second quarter. Net carrying value of goodwill and other indefinite lived intangibles totaled $2.0 million and $1.8 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The net carrying value of finite lived intangible assets totaled $1.1 million and $0 at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Adverse global economic conditions could harm our business, liquidity and financial results. Adverse economic conditions could negatively affect our business and results of operations, primarily through disrupting our customers’ businesses. Weak economic conditions in the United States or other countries important to our customers’ businesses may adversely affect those customers’ level of spending, ability to obtain financing, and ability to make timely payments to us for our services, which could require us to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, negatively impact our days sales outstanding and adversely affect our results of operations. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers. We derive and believe that we will continue to derive in the near term a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers and we have experienced a decline from one of those customers. To the extent that any significant customer uses less of our services or terminates its relationship with us, our revenues could decline significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Three customers comprised 72% of total revenues and two customers comprised 45% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Most of our contracts may be canceled on short notice, so our revenue and potential profits are not guaranteed. Most of our contracts are cancelable on short notice by the customer either at its convenience or upon our default. If one of our customers terminates a contract at its convenience, then we typically are able to recover only costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to termination, which could prevent us from recognizing all of our potential revenue and profit from that contract. If one of our customers terminates the contract due to our default, we could be liable for excess costs incurred by the customer in re-procuring services from another source, as well as other costs. Many of our contracts, including our service agreements, are periodically open to public bid. We may not be the successful bidder on our existing contracts that are re-bid. We also provide a portion of our services on a non-recurring, project-by-project basis. We could experience a reduction in our revenue, profitability and liquidity if our customers cancel a significant number of contracts, we fail to win a significant number of our existing contracts upon re-bid or we complete the required work under a significant number of our non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects. In addition, we provide services under certain master service agreements. If these agreements are terminated, we would be unable to provide on-going services to those customers. 5 The majority of our projects are accounted for on the percentage-of-completion method, and if actual results vary from the assumptions made in estimating percentage-of-completion, our revenue and income could be reduced. We generally recognize revenue on our projects on the percentage-of-completion method. Under the percentage-of-completion method, we record revenue as work on the contract progresses. The cumulative amount of revenue recorded on a contract at a specified point in time is that percentage of total estimated revenue that incurred costs to date bear to estimated total expected contract costs. The percentage-of-completion method therefore relies on estimates of total expected contract costs. Contract revenue and total cost estimates are reviewed and revised periodically as the work progresses. Adjustments are reflected in contract revenue in the fiscal period when such estimates are revised. Estimates are based on management’s reasonable assumptions and experience, but are only estimates. Variation between actual results and estimates on a large project or on a number of smaller projects could be material. We immediately recognize the full amount of the estimated loss on a contract when our estimates indicate such a loss. Any such loss would reduce our revenue and income. We submit change orders to our customers for work we perform beyond the scope of some of our contracts. If our customers do not approve these change orders, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. We typically submit change orders under some of our contracts for payment of work performed beyond the initial contractual requirements. The applicable customers may not approve or may contest these change orders and we cannot assure you that these claims will be approved in whole, in part or at all. If these claims are not approved, our net income and results of operations could be adversely impacted. We may not accurately estimate the costs associated with services provided under fixed-price contracts, which could impair our financial performance. Approximately 63% of our revenue is derived from fixed price contracts. Under these contracts, we set the price of our services and assume the risk that the costs associated with our performance may be greater than we anticipated. Our profitability is therefore dependent upon our ability to estimate accurately the costs associated with our services. These costs may be affected by a variety of factors, such as lower than anticipated productivity, conditions at the work sites differing materially from what was anticipated at the time we bid on the contract, and higher than expected costs of materials and labor. Certain agreements or projects could have lower margins than anticipated or losses if actual costs for contracts exceed our estimates, which could reduce our profitability and liquidity. Failure to properly manage projects may result in costs or claims. Our engagements often involve relatively large scale, highly complex projects. The quality of our performance on such projects depends in large part upon our ability to manage the customer relationship, to manage effectively the project and to deploy appropriate resources, including third-party contractors and our own personnel, in a timely manner. Any defects, errors or failure to meet customers’ expectations could result in claims for substantial damages against us. We currently maintain comprehensive general liability, umbrella, and professional liability insurance policies. We cannot be certain that the insurance coverage we carry to cover such claims will be adequate to protect us from the full impact of such claims. Moreover, in certain instances, we guarantee customers that we will complete a project by a scheduled date or that the project will achieve certain performance standards. If the project experiences a performance problem, we may not be able to recover the additional costs we will incur, which could exceed revenues realized from a project. Finally, if we underestimate the resources or time we need to complete a project with capped or fixed fees, our operating results could be seriously harmed. We may choose, or be required, to pay our subcontractors even if our customers do not pay or delay paying us for the related services. We use subcontractors to perform portions of our services and to manage work flow. In some cases, we pay our subcontractors before our customers pay us for the related services. If we choose, or are required, to pay our subcontractors for work performed for customers who fail to pay, or delay paying us for the related work, we could experience a decrease in profitability and liquidity. 6 We operate in a highly competitive industry, which could reduce our growth opportunities, revenue and operating results. The mission-critical information technology industry in which we operate is highly competitive and continues to become more competitive. We often compete against divisions of large design build construction and real estate firms and other information technology consulting and integration companies, including several that are large domestic companies that may have financial, technical and marketing resources that exceed our own. These larger competitors have an infrastructure and support greater than ours, and accordingly, we continue to experience some price pressure as some companies are willing to take on projects at lower margins. Our competitors may develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are equal or superior in both price and quality to our services, and we may not be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position. Our size often prevents us from bidding on larger, more profitable projects, which significantly reduces our growth opportunities. Although our customers currently outsource a significant portion of these services to us and our competitors, we can offer no assurance that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource specialty contracting services to us in the future. The industries we serve have experienced and may continue to experience rapid technological, structural and competitive changes that could reduce the need for our services and adversely affect our revenues. The mission-critical information technology industry is characterized by rapid technological change, intense competition and changing consumer and data center needs. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from customers in the mission-critical information technology industry. New technologies, or upgrades to existing technologies by customers, could reduce the need for our services and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Improvements in existing technology may allow companies to improve their networks without physically upgrading them. Reduced demand for our services or a loss of a significant customer could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. A reduction in government spending has resulted in a decrease in demand for our services. Recent plans adopted by the U.S. Government, along with pressures on, and uncertainty surrounding, the federal budget and the permissible federal debt limit, could adversely affect the economy and funding for individual programs and delay purchasing or payment decisions by some of our customers. We are unable to predict the impact that the delayed automatic cuts associated with “sequestration” or other cuts could have on our customers or suppliers. Historically, as federal, state or local government or private enterprise spending on mission-critical related capital expenditures decreased, the demand for services like those provided by us has declined. These decreases have reduced our opportunity for growth, increased our marketing and sales costs, and reduced the prices we can charge for services, which has reduced our revenue and adversely affected our operating results. We may be unable to obtain sufficient bonding capacity to support certain service offerings. Some of our contracts require performance and payment bonds. Bonding capacity for construction projects has become increasingly difficult to obtain, and bonding companies are denying or restricting coverage to an increasing number of contractors. Companies that have been successful in renewing or obtaining coverage have sometimes been required to post additional collateral to secure the same amount of bonds which would reduce availability under any credit facility. We may not be able to maintain a sufficient level of bonding capacity in the future, which could preclude us from being able to bid for certain contracts and successfully contract with certain customers. In addition, even if we are able to successfully renew or obtain performance or payment bonds in the future, we may be required to post letters of credit in connection with the bonds. At December 31, 2013, we had approximately $25.8 million in outstanding bonds associated with ongoing projects. We may be unable to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel and the loss of any of our key executive officers may adversely affect our business. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled, knowledgeable, sophisticated and qualified managerial, professional and technical personnel. Our business involves the development of tailored solutions for customers, a process that relies heavily upon the expertise and services of employees. Accordingly, our employees are one of our most valuable resources. Competition for skilled personnel, especially those with security clearance and expertise with mission critical facilities, is intense in our industry. Recruiting and training these personnel require substantial resources. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could increase our costs of performing our contractual obligations, reduce our ability to efficiently satisfy our customers’ needs, limit our ability to win new business and constrain our future growth. A portion of our business depends upon obtaining and maintaining required security clearances, and our failure to do so could result in termination of certain of our contracts or cause us to be unable to bid or rebid on certain contracts. Some United States government projects require our employees to maintain various levels of security clearances, and we may be required to maintain certain facility security clearances complying with United States government requirements. 7 Obtaining and maintaining security clearances for employees involves a lengthy process, and it is difficult to identify, recruit and retain employees who already hold security clearances. If our employees are unable to obtain or retain security clearances or if such employees who hold security clearances terminate their employment, the customer whose work requires cleared employees could terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon expiration. To the extent we are not able to engage employees with the required security clearances for a particular contract, we may not be able bid on or win new contracts, or effectively re-bid on expiring contracts, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, we expect that some of the contracts on which we will bid will require us to demonstrate our ability to obtain facility security clearances and perform work with employees who hold specified types of security clearances. A facility security clearance is an administrative determination that a particular facility is eligible for access to classified information or an award of a classified contract. Although contracts may be awarded prior to the issuance of a facility security clearance, in such cases the contractor is processed for facility security clearance at the appropriate level and must meet the eligibility requirements for access to classified information. A contractor or prospective contractor must meet certain eligibility requirements before it can be processed for facility security clearance. Our ability to obtain and maintain facility security clearances has a direct impact on our ability to compete for and perform United States government projects, the performance of which requires access to classified information. Our failure to comply with the regulations of the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration and other state and local agencies that oversee safety compliance could reduce our revenue, profitability and liquidity. The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended, or OSHA, establishes certain employer responsibilities, including maintenance of a workplace free of recognized hazards likely to cause death or serious injury, compliance with standards promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and various record keeping, disclosure and procedural requirements. Various standards, including standards for notices of hazards, safety in excavation and demolition work, may apply to our operations. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in the ordinary course of our business in complying with OSHA and other state and local laws and regulations. If we are unable to engage appropriate subcontractors or if our subcontractors fail to perform their contractual obligations, our performance as a prime contractor and ability to obtain future business could be materially and adversely impacted. Our contract performance may involve the engagement of subcontracts to other companies upon which we rely to perform all or a portion of the work we are obligated to deliver to our customers. Our inability to find and engage appropriate subcontractors or a failure by one or more of our subcontractors to satisfactorily deliver on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies and/or perform the agreed-upon services may materially and adversely affect our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor. In extreme cases, a subcontractor’s performance deficiency could result in the customer terminating the contract for default with us. A default termination could expose us to liability for excess costs of procurement by the customer and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and task orders. We may not have sufficient financial resources to carry out our strategy; we may need to issue debt or use our stock to seek additional funding. We may not have sufficient financial resources to carry out our strategy. As such, we may elect to secure additional capital in the future to improve our liquidity in order to carry out our strategy. The amounts involved in any such transaction, individually or in the aggregate, may be material. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities, the issuance of such securities could result in dilution to our existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt securities, the terms of such debt could impose additional restrictions on our operations. Additional capital, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A failure to obtain additional financing could have a material adverse impact our business, financial condition and earnings. Our inability to maintain sufficient availability under our revolving credit facility or sufficient access to capital markets to replace that facility would have a significant impact on our business. We maintain a revolving credit facility with Bridge Bank, National Association. Borrowings under this facility are collateralized by substantially all of our assets. The amount of available borrowings fluctuates based on the underlying asset-borrowing base, which is 80% of our eligible trade accounts receivable. In addition to cash on hand and cash flow from operations, the facility provides us with the liquidity we require to meet our operating, investing and financing needs. While we believe we can meet these needs from our operations and available sources of financing for the next 12 months, we can provide no assurances that we will be able to do so long-term. The loss of the use of the facility or the inability to replace the facility when it expires would materially impair our ability to operate our business. 8 Because we do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, for use in the operations and expansion of our business. As a result, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination as to the declaration and payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on factors our board of directors deems relevant, including, among others, our results of operations, financial condition and cash requirements, business prospects, and the terms of our credit facilities and other financing arrangements. Accordingly, realization of a gain on stockholders’ investments will depend on the appreciation of the price of our common stock. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders purchased their shares. Our insiders beneficially own a significant portion of our outstanding common stock. Future sales of common stock by these insiders may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our officers, directors or their affiliates beneficially own approximately 3.2 million shares of commons stock or approximately 22% of our outstanding common shares as of December 31, 2013. Stock sales by our directors and officers are subject to compliance with our Code of Conduct and preapproval process from the Chief Financial Officer. Sales of a substantial number of these shares in the public market could decrease the market price of our common stock. In addition, the perception that such sales might occur may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Future issuances or sales of our common stock could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our shares are thinly traded and may not be readily marketable. Our shares are not widely traded, and daily trading volume is generally very low compared with most publicly traded companies. As a result, you may not be able to readily resell your shares in the company. Our common stock may be characterized as a “penny stock” under applicable SEC regulations. Our common stock may be characterized as “penny stock” under SEC regulations. As such, broker-dealers dealing in our common stock may be subject to the disclosure rules for transactions involving penny stocks, which generally require that, prior to a purchase, the broker-dealer determine if purchasing the common stock is suitable for the applicable purchaser. The broker-dealer must also obtain the written consent of the applicable purchasers to purchase the common stock and disclose the best bid and offer prices available for the common stock and the price at which the broker-dealer last purchased or sold the common stock. These additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers may discourage them from effecting transactions in our common stock, which could make it difficult for an investor to sell his, her or its shares at any given time. We are not currently in a position to have a registration statement declared effective by the SEC in order to issue any debt or equity securities in the public markets. On August 5, 2013, we failed to timely file a Form 8-K/A containing audited historical financial statements and unaudited pro-forma financial statements related to the acquisition of the systems integration business from arvato digital services, LLC. The audited financial statements are required under Rule 3-05 of Regulation S-X and the pro-forma financial statements are required under Rule 8-05 of Regulation S-X. Until such time as we are able to file these financial statements for the periods required, we will not be in a position to have the SEC declare effective any registration statement. It may take an extended period of time for us to comply with these requirements, and, during that time, we would be unable to raise capital through the issuance of debt or equity securities in the public markets to fund our operations and any acquisitions. Although we believe our existing cash on hand, our expected cash flows from operations, and borrowings under our credit facility will provide adequate liquidity and working capital to support our operations and capital requirements for the next twelve months, this inability to file a registration statement could adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and ability to fund any future acquisitions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 