ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating To Our Business A decline in coal prices could reduce our revenues and the value of our coal reserves. Our results of operations are dependent upon the prices we charge for our coal as well as our ability to improve productivity and control costs. Any decreased demand would cause spot prices to decline and require us to increase productivity and decrease costs in order to maintain our margins. Declines in the prices we receive for our coal could adversely affect our operating results and our ability to generate the cash flows we require to improve our productivity and invest in our operations. The prices we receive for coal depend upon factors beyond our control, including: • the supply of and demand for domestic and foreign coal; • the demand for electricity; • domestic and foreign demand for steel and the continued financial viability of the domestic and/or foreign steel industry; • the proximity to, capacity of and cost of transportation facilities; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • air emission standards for coal-fired power plants; • regulatory, administrative and judicial decisions; • the price and availability of alternative fuels, including the effects of technological developments; and • the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures. Our coal mining operations are subject to operating risks that could result in decreased coal production which could reduce our revenues. Our revenues depend on our level of coal mining production. The level of our production is subject to operating conditions and events beyond our control that could disrupt operations and affect production at particular mines for varying lengths of time. These conditions and events include: • the unavailability of qualified labor; • our inability to acquire, maintain or renew necessary permits or mining or surface rights in a timely manner, if at all; 30 Table of Contents • unfavorable geologic conditions, such as the thickness of the coal deposits and the amount of rock embedded in or overlying the coal deposits; • failure of reserve estimates to prove correct; • changes in governmental regulation of the coal industry, including the imposition of additional taxes, fees or actions to suspend or revoke our permits or changes in the manner of enforcement of existing regulations; • mining and processing equipment failures and unexpected maintenance problems; • adverse weather and natural disasters, such as heavy rains and flooding; • increased water entering mining areas and increased or accidental mine water discharges; • increased or unexpected reclamation costs; • interruptions due to transportation delays; • the unavailability of required equipment of the type and size needed to meet production expectations; and • unexpected mine safety accidents, including fires and explosions. These conditions and events may increase our cost of mining and delay or halt production at particular mines either permanently or for varying lengths of time. Reduced coal consumption by North American electric power generators could result in lower prices for our coal, which could reduce our revenues and adversely impact our earnings and the value of our coal reserves. Steam coal accounted for nearly all of our coal sales volume in 2007 and the majority of our sales of steam coal in 2007 were to electric power generators. Domestic electric power generation accounted for approximately 92% of all U.S. coal consumption in 2006, according to the EIA. The amount of coal consumed for U.S. electric power generation is affected primarily by the overall demand for electricity, the location, availability, quality and price of competing fuels for power such as natural gas, nuclear, fuel oil and alternative energy sources such as hydroelectric power, technological developments, and environmental and other governmental regulations. Although we expect that many new power plants will be built to produce electricity during peak periods of demand, we also expect that many of these new power plants will be fired by natural gas because gas-fired plants are cheaper to construct than coal-fired plants and because natural gas is a cleaner burning fuel. Gas-fired generation from existing and newly constructed gas-fired facilities has the potential to displace coal-fired generation, particularly from older, less efficient coal-powered generators. In addition, the increasingly stringent requirements of the Clean Air Act and the potential regulation of greenhouse gas emissions may result in more electric power generators shifting from coal to natural gas-fired plants or alternative energy sources. Any reduction in the amount of coal consumed by North American electric power generators could reduce the price of steam coal that we mine and sell, thereby reducing our revenues and adversely impacting our earnings and the value of our coal reserves. Weather patterns also can greatly affect electricity generation. Extreme temperatures, both hot and cold, cause increased power usage and, therefore, increased generating requirements from all sources. Mild temperatures, on the other hand, result in lower electrical demand, which allows generators to choose the lowest-cost sources of power generation when deciding which generation sources to dispatch. Accordingly, significant changes in weather patterns could reduce the demand for our coal. Overall economic activity and the associated demands for power by industrial users can have significant effects on overall electricity demand. Robust economic activity can cause much heavier demands for power, particularly if such activity results in increased utilization of industrial assets during evening and nighttime periods. An economic slowdown can significantly slow the growth of electrical demand and, in some locations, result in contraction of demand. Any downward pressure on coal prices, whether due to increased use of alternative energy sources, changes in weather patterns, decreases in overall demand or otherwise, would likely cause our profitability to decline. 31 Table of Contents The capability and profitability of our operations may be adversely affected by the status of our long-term coal supply agreements and changes in purchasing patterns in the coal industry. We sell a significant portion of our coal under long-term coal supply agreements, which we define as contracts with a term greater than 12 months. For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 69% of our revenues were derived from coal sales that were made under long-term coal supply agreements. As of that date, we had 40 long-term sales agreements with a volume-weighted average term of approximately 4.6 years. The prices for coal shipped under these agreements are typically fixed for at least the initial year of the contract, subject to certain adjustments in later years, and thus may be below the current market price for similar type coal at any given time, depending on the timeframe of contract execution or initiation. As a consequence of the substantial volume of our sales that are subject to these long-term agreements, we have less coal available with which to capitalize on higher coal prices, if and when they arise. In addition, in some cases, our ability to realize the higher prices that may be available in the spot market may be restricted when customers elect to purchase higher volumes allowable under some contracts. When our current contracts with customers expire or are otherwise renegotiated, our customers may decide not to extend or enter into new long-term contracts or, in the absence of long-term contracts, our customers may decide to purchase fewer tons of coal than in the past or on different terms, including under different pricing terms. Furthermore, as electric utilities seek to adjust to requirements of the Clean Air Act, particularly the Acid Rain regulations, the Clean Air Mercury Rule and the Clean Air Interstate Rule, although these latter two rules are subject to judicial challenge and the possible deregulation of their industry, they could become increasingly less willing to enter into long-term coal supply agreements and instead may purchase higher percentages of coal under short-term supply agreements. To the extent the electric utility industry shifts away from long-term supply agreements, it could adversely affect us and the level of our revenues. For example, fewer electric utilities will have a contractual obligation to purchase coal from us, thereby increasing the risk that we will not have a market for our production. Furthermore, spot market prices tend to be more volatile than contractual prices, which could result in decreased revenues. Certain provisions in our long-term supply agreements may provide limited protection during adverse economic conditions or may result in economic penalties upon a failure to meet specifications. Price adjustment, “price re-opener” and other similar provisions in long-term supply agreements may reduce the protection from short-term coal price volatility traditionally provided by such contracts. Most of our coal supply agreements contain provisions that allow for the purchase price to be renegotiated at periodic intervals. These price re-opener provisions may automatically set a new price based on the prevailing market price or, in some instances, require the parties to agree on a new price, sometimes between a specified range of prices. In some circumstances, failure of the parties to agree on a price under a price re-opener provision can lead to termination of the contract. Any adjustment or renegotiations leading to a significantly lower contract price would result in decreased revenues. Accordingly, supply contracts with terms of one year or more may provide only limited protection during adverse market conditions. 32 Table of Contents Coal supply agreements also typically contain force majeure provisions allowing temporary suspension of performance by us or our customers during the duration of specified events beyond the control of the affected party. Additionally, most of our coal supply agreements contain provisions requiring us to deliver coal meeting quality thresholds for certain characteristics such as Btu, sulfur content, ash content, hardness and ash fusion temperature. Failure to meet these specifications could result in economic penalties, including price adjustments, the rejection of deliveries or, in the extreme, termination of the contracts. Consequently, due to the risks mentioned above, we may not achieve the revenue or profit we expect to achieve from our long-term supply agreements. In addition, we may not be able to successfully convert these sales commitments into long-term supply agreements. A decline in demand for metallurgical coal would limit our ability to sell our high quality steam coal as higher-priced metallurgical coal. Portions of our coal reserves possess quality characteristics that enable us to mine, process and market them as either metallurgical coal or high quality steam coal, depending on the prevailing conditions in the metallurgical and steam coal markets. A decline in the metallurgical market relative to the steam market could cause us to shift coal from the metallurgical market to the steam market, thereby reducing our revenues and profitability. However, some of our mines operate profitably only if all or a portion of their production is sold as metallurgical coal to the steel market. If demand for metallurgical coal declined to the point where we could earn a more attractive return marketing the coal as steam coal, these mines may not be economically viable and may be subject to closure. Such closures would lead to accelerated reclamation costs, as well as reduced revenue and profitability. Inaccuracies in our estimates of economically recoverable coal reserves could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs or decreased profitability. We base our reserves information on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by our staff, which includes various engineers and geologists, and which is periodically reviewed by outside firms. The reserves estimates as to both quantity and quality are annually updated to reflect production of coal from the reserves and new drilling or other data received. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of and costs to mine recoverable reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of economically recoverable coal reserves and net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, all of which may vary considerably from actual results such as: • geological and mining conditions which may not be fully identified by available exploration data or which may differ from experience in current operations; • historical production from the area compared with production from other similar producing areas; and • the assumed effects of regulation and taxes by governmental agencies and assumptions concerning coal prices, operating costs, mining technology improvements, severance and excise tax, development costs and reclamation costs. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities and qualities attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of net cash flows expected from particular reserves prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times may vary substantially. Actual coal tonnage recovered from identified reserve areas or properties and revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves may vary materially from estimates. These estimates, thus, may not accurately reflect our actual reserves. Any inaccuracy in our estimates related to our reserves could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs or decreased profitability. 33 Table of Contents We depend heavily on a small number of large customers, the loss of any of which would adversely affect our operating results. Our three largest customers for the year ended December 31, 2007 were Georgia Power Company, Duke Energy Corporation and American Electric Power and we derived approximately 43% of our coal revenues from sales to our five largest customers. At December 31, 2007, we had coal supply agreements with these customers that expire at various times from 2008 to 2011. We typically discuss extension of existing agreements or entering into long-term agreements with our customers, however these negotiations may not be successful and these customers may not continue to purchase coal from us pursuant to long-term coal supply agreements. If a number of these customers were to significantly reduce their purchases of coal from us, or if we were unable to sell coal to them on terms as favorable to us as the terms under our current agreements, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer materially. Disruptions in transportation services could limit our ability to deliver coal to our customers, which could cause revenues to decline. We depend primarily upon railroads, trucks and barges to deliver coal to our customers. Disruption of railroad service due to weather-related problems, strikes, lockouts and other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to our customers, resulting in decreased shipments. Decreased performance levels over longer periods of time could cause our customers to look elsewhere for their fuel needs, negatively affecting our revenues and profitability. During 2005, we experienced brief periods of poor rail service, especially during the first half of the year. The service related issues resulted in missed shipments and adversely affected revenue. During the second half of 2005 and 2006, rail service steadily improved and did not significantly affect our shipment volumes. However, a return to the service related issues experienced in 2004 and early 2005 would affect our future operating results. Several of our mines depend on a single transportation carrier or a single mode of transportation. Disruption of any of these transportation services due to weather-related problems, mechanical difficulties, strikes, lockouts, bottlenecks and other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to our customers. Our transportation providers may face difficulties in the future that may impair our ability to supply coal to our customers, resulting in decreased revenues. If there are disruptions of the transportation services provided by our primary rail carriers that transport our produced coal and we are unable to find alternative transportation providers to ship our coal, our business could be adversely affected. Fluctuations in transportation costs could impair our ability to supply coal to our customers. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal for our customers and, as a result, the cost of transportation is a critical factor in a customer’s purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs could make coal a less competitive source of energy or could make our coal production less competitive than coal produced from other sources. On the other hand, significant decreases in transportation costs could result in increased competition from coal producers in other parts of the country. For instance, coordination of the many eastern loading facilities, the large number of small shipments, the steeper average grades of the terrain and a more unionized workforce are all issues that combine to make shipments originating in the eastern United States inherently more expensive on a per-mile basis than shipments originating in the western United States. The increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 34 Table of Contents Disruption in supplies of coal produced by third parties could temporarily impair our ability to fill our customers’ orders or increase our costs. In addition to marketing coal that is produced from our controlled reserves, we purchase and resell coal produced by third parties from their controlled reserves to meet customer specifications. Disruption in our supply of third-party coal could temporarily impair our ability to fill our customers’ orders or require us to pay higher prices in order to obtain the required coal from other sources. Any increase in the prices we pay for third-party coal could increase our costs and therefore lower our earnings. The unavailability of an adequate supply of coal reserves that can be mined at competitive costs could cause our profitability to decline. Our profitability depends substantially on our ability to mine coal reserves that have the geological characteristics that enable them to be mined at competitive costs and to meet the quality needed by our customers. Because our reserves decline as we mine our coal, our future success and growth depend, in part, upon our ability to acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable. Replacement reserves may not be available when required or, if available, may not be capable of being mined at costs comparable to those characteristic of the depleting mines. We may not be able to accurately assess the geological characteristics of any reserves that we acquire, which may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. Exhaustion of reserves at particular mines also may have an adverse effect on our operating results that is disproportionate to the percentage of overall production represented by such mines. Our ability to obtain other reserves in the future could be limited by restrictions under our existing or future debt agreements, competition from other coal companies for attractive properties, the lack of suitable acquisition candidates or the inability to acquire coal properties on commercially reasonable terms. Unexpected increases in raw material costs or decreases in availability could significantly impair our operating profitability. Our coal mining operations use significant amounts of steel, rubber, petroleum products and other raw materials in various pieces of mining equipment, supplies and materials, including the roof bolts required by the room-and-pillar method of mining described previously. Scrap steel prices have risen significantly and, historically, the prices of scrap steel and petroleum have fluctuated. We have been adversely impacted by margin compressions due to cost increases for various commodities and services such as diesel fuel, explosives (ANFO) and coal trucking, influenced by the price variability of crude oil and natural gas. There may be other acts of nature, terrorist attacks or threats or other conditions that could also increase the costs of raw materials. If the price of steel, rubber, petroleum products or other of these materials increase, our operational expenses will increase, which could have a significant negative impact on our profitability. Additionally, shortages in raw materials used in the manufacturing of supplies and mining equipment could limit our ability to obtain such items which could have an adverse effect on our ability to carry out our business plan. The accident at the Sago mine could negatively impact our business. On January 2, 2006, an explosion occurred at our Sago mine in West Virginia. The explosion tragically resulted in the deaths of twelve miners and the critical injury of another miner. As a result of the accident, the federal and state investigations and related matters, and civil litigation arising out of the accident, our business may be negatively impacted by various factors including the diversion of management’s attention from our day-to-day business, further negative media attention, any negative perceptions about our safety record affecting our ability to attract skilled labor, the impact of litigation commenced against us, any increased premiums for insurance and any claims that may be asserted against us that are not covered, in whole or in part, by our insurance policies. 35 Table of Contents A shortage of skilled labor in the mining industry could pose a risk to achieving optimal labor productivity and competitive costs, which could adversely affect our profitability. Efficient coal mining using modern techniques and equipment requires skilled laborers, preferably with at least a year of experience and proficiency in multiple mining tasks. In order to support our planned expansion opportunities, we intend to sponsor both in-house and vocational coal mining programs at the local level in order to train additional skilled laborers. In the event the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens or we are unable to train the necessary amount of skilled laborers, there could be an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production and therefore have a material adverse effect on our earnings. Our ability to operate our company effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel. Our senior management team averages 23 years of experience in the coal industry, which includes developing innovative, low-cost mining operations, maintaining strong customer relationships and making strategic, opportunistic acquisitions. The loss of any of our senior executives could have a material adverse effect on our business. There may be a limited number of persons with the requisite experience and skills to serve in our senior management positions. We may not be able to locate or employ qualified executives on acceptable terms. In addition, as our business develops and expands, we believe that our future success will depend greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel with coal industry experience. Competition for these persons in the coal industry is intense and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. We may not be able to continue to employ key personnel or attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Our failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to effectively operate our business. Acquisitions that we may undertake involve a number of inherent risks, any of which could cause us not to realize the anticipated benefits. We continually seek to expand our operations and coal reserves through selective acquisitions. If we are unable to successfully integrate the companies, businesses or properties we acquire, our profitability may decline and we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Acquisition transactions involve various inherent risks, including: • uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths, and potential profitability of, and identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, contingent and other liabilities (including environmental or mine safety liabilities) of, acquisition candidates; • the potential loss of key customers, management and employees of an acquired business; • the ability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition; • discrepancies between the estimated and actual reserves of the acquired business; • problems that could arise from the integration of the acquired business; and • unanticipated changes in business, industry or general economic conditions that affect the assumptions underlying our rationale for pursuing the acquisition. Any one or more of these factors could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from an acquisition. Any acquisition opportunities we pursue could materially affect our liquidity and capital resources and may require us to incur indebtedness, seek equity capital or both. In addition, future acquisitions could result in our assuming more long-term liabilities relative to the value of the acquired assets than we have assumed in our previous acquisitions. 36 Table of Contents Risks inherent to mining could increase the cost of operating our business. Our mining operations are subject to conditions that can impact the safety of our workforce or delay coal deliveries or increase the cost of mining at particular mines for varying lengths of time. These conditions include fires and explosions from methane gas or coal dust; accidental minewater discharges; weather, flooding and natural disasters; unexpected maintenance problems; key equipment failures; variations in coal seam thickness; variations in the amount of rock and soil overlying the coal deposit; variations in rock and other natural materials and variations in geologic conditions. We maintain insurance policies that provide limited coverage for some of these risks, although there can be no assurance that these risks would be fully covered by our insurance policies. Despite our efforts, significant mine accidents could occur and have a substantial impact. An inability of contract miner or brokerage sources to fulfill the delivery terms of their contracts with us could reduce our profitability. In conducting our mining operations, we utilize third-party sources of coal production, including contract miners and brokerage sources, to fulfill deliveries under our coal supply agreements. Recently, certain of our brokerage sources and contract miners have experienced adverse geologic mining and/or financial difficulties that have made their delivery of coal to us at the contractual price difficult or uncertain. Our profitability or exposure to loss on transactions or relationships such as these is dependent upon the reliability (including financial viability) and price of the third-party supply, our obligation to supply coal to customers in the event that adverse geologic mining conditions restrict deliveries from our suppliers, our willingness to participate in temporary cost increases experienced by our third-party coal suppliers, our ability to pass on temporary cost increases to our customers, the ability to substitute, when economical, third-party coal sources with internal production or coal purchased in the market and other factors. If the value of our goodwill or long-lived assets becomes impaired, it could materially reduce the value of our assets and reduce our net income for the year in which the write-off occurs. The Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (the “FASB”) Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (“SFAS”) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (“SFAS No. 142”), requires companies to cease amortizing goodwill and begin testing for impairment of goodwill at least annually (absent any impairment indicators). Impairment of goodwill is measured as the excess of the carrying value of the goodwill over its fair value. Fair value is estimated using present value techniques, such as discounted cash flows, or a weighting of income and market approaches. Any impairment losses under SFAS No. 142 are recorded as operating expenses. We performed an impairment test of the assets acquired from Horizon as of October 31, 2007. The results of the 2007 annual impairment tests of the goodwill for the Hazard, Eastern, East Kentucky and Knott County business units indicated that their estimated fair values were less than the carrying amounts of the respective business unit assets, including goodwill, and, therefore, were impaired. As a result, we recorded a $170.4 million non-cash impairment charge to reduce the carrying amount of these assets to their estimated fair value. The impairment test of our ADDCAR business unit indicated that the estimated fair value of its goodwill exceeded the carrying amount of its assets, including goodwill, and resulted in no impairment charge. The FASB also requires, under SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, long-lived assets to be assessed for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is measured and recognized if the estimated fair value is less than the carrying amount of the asset. Any impairments are recorded as a charge, resulting in a reduction in earnings in the quarter such impairment is identified and a corresponding reduction in our net asset value. Our long-lived assets were assessed and were determined not to be impaired as of December 31, 2007. If, in the future, the estimated fair value of the goodwill were to decline or our long-lived assets are determined to be impaired, it would be necessary to record an additional non-cash impairment charge, which could materially reduce the value of our assets and reduce our net income for the year in which the write-off occurs. 37 Table of Contents We may be unable to generate sufficient taxable income from future operations to fully utilize our significant tax net operating loss carryforwards or maintain our deferred tax assets. As a result of our acquisition of Anker and of historical financial results, we have recorded deferred tax assets. If we fail to generate profits in the foreseeable future, our deferred tax assets may not be fully utilized. We evaluate our ability to utilize our net operating loss (“NOL”) and tax credit carryforwards each period and, in compliance with SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes,” record any resulting adjustments that may be required to deferred income tax expense. In addition, we will reduce the deferred income tax asset for the benefits of NOL and tax credit carryforwards used in future periods and will recognize and record federal and state income tax expense at statutory rates in future periods. If, in the future, we determine that it is more likely than not that we will not realize all or a portion of the deferred tax assets, we will record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets which would result in a charge to income tax expense. Failure to obtain or renew surety bonds in a timely manner and on acceptable terms could affect our ability to secure reclamation and coal lease obligations, which could adversely affect our ability to mine or lease coal. Federal and state laws require us to obtain surety bonds to secure payment of certain long-term obligations, such as mine closure or reclamation costs, federal and state workers’ compensation costs. Certain business transactions, such as coal leases and other obligations, may also require bonding. These bonds are typically renewable annually. Surety bond issuers and holders may not continue to renew the bonds or may demand additional collateral or other less favorable terms upon those renewals. The ability of surety bond issuers and holders to demand additional collateral or other less favorable terms has increased as the number of companies willing to issue these bonds has decreased over time. Our failure to maintain, or our inability to acquire, surety bonds that are required by state and federal law would affect our ability to secure reclamation and coal lease obligations, which could adversely affect our ability to mine or lease coal. That failure could result from a variety of factors including, without limitation: • lack of availability, higher expense or unfavorable market terms of new bonds; • restrictions on availability of collateral for current and future third-party surety bond issuers under the terms of our amended and restated credit facility; and • the exercise by third-party surety bond issuers of their right to refuse to renew the surety. Failure to maintain capacity for required letters of credit could limit our ability to obtain or renew surety bonds. At December 31, 2007, we had $70.0 million of letters of credit in place, of which $57.5 million serves as collateral for reclamation surety bonds and $12.5 million secures miscellaneous obligations. Our amended and restated credit facility provides for a revolving credit facility of $100.0 million, of which up to $80.0 million may be used for letters of credit. If we do not maintain sufficient borrowing capacity under our amended and restated credit facility for additional letters of credit, we may be unable to obtain or renew surety bonds required for our mining operations. Our business requires substantial capital investment and maintenance expenditures, which we may be unable to provide. Our business strategy will require additional substantial capital investment. We require capital for, among other purposes, managing acquired assets, acquiring new equipment, maintaining the condition of our existing equipment and maintaining compliance with environmental laws and regulations. To the extent that cash generated internally and cash available under our credit facilities are not sufficient to fund capital requirements, we will require additional debt and/or equity financing. However, this type of financing may not be available or, if available, may not be on satisfactory terms. Future debt financings, if available, may result in increased interest and amortization expense, increased leverage and decreased income available to fund further acquisitions and expansion. In addition, future debt financings may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and render us more vulnerable to economic downturns. If we fail to generate sufficient earnings or to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future or fail to manage our capital investments effectively, we could be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. 38 Table of Contents Increased consolidation and competition in the U.S. coal industry may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract customers and may reduce domestic coal prices. During the last several years, the U.S. coal industry has experienced increased consolidation, which has contributed to the industry becoming more competitive. According to the EIA, in 1995, the top ten coal producers accounted for approximately 50% of total domestic coal production. By 2006, however, the top ten coal producers’ share had increased to approximately 64% of total domestic coal production. Consequently, many of our competitors in the domestic coal industry are major coal producers who have significantly greater financial resources than us. The intense competition among coal producers may impact our ability to retain or attract customers and may therefore adversely affect our future revenues and profitability. The demand for U.S. coal exports is dependent upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the overall demand for electricity in foreign markets, currency exchange rates, ocean freight rates, the demand for foreign- produced steel both in foreign markets and in the U.S. market (which is dependent in part on tariff rates on steel), general economic conditions in foreign countries, technological developments and environmental and other governmental regulations. If foreign demand for U.S. coal were to decline, this decline could cause competition among coal producers in the United States to intensify, potentially resulting in additional downward pressure on domestic coal prices. Our ability to collect payments from our customers could be impaired if their creditworthiness deteriorates. Our ability to receive payment for coal sold and delivered depends on the continued creditworthiness of our customers. Our customer base is changing with deregulation as utilities sell their power plants to their non-regulated affiliates or third parties that may be less creditworthy, thereby increasing the risk we bear on payment default. These new power plant owners may have credit ratings that are below investment grade. In addition, competition with other coal suppliers could force us to extend credit to customers and on terms that could increase the risk we bear on payment default. We have contracts to supply coal to energy trading and brokering companies under which those companies sell coal to end users. In recent years, the creditworthiness of the energy trading and brokering companies with which we do business declined, increasing the risk that we may not be able to collect payment for all coal sold and delivered to or on behalf of these energy trading and brokering companies. Defects in title or loss of any leasehold interests in our properties could limit our ability to conduct mining operations on these properties or result in significant unanticipated costs. We conduct a significant part of our mining operations on properties that we lease. A title defect or the loss of any lease upon expiration of its term, upon a default or otherwise, could adversely affect our ability to mine the associated reserves and/or process the coal that we mine. Title to most of our owned or leased properties and mineral rights is not usually verified until we make a commitment to develop a property, which may not occur until after we have obtained necessary permits and completed exploration of the property. In some cases, we rely on title information or representations and warranties provided by our lessors or grantors. Our right to mine some of our reserves has in the past been, and may again in the future be, adversely affected if defects in title or boundaries exist or if a lease expires. Any challenge to our title or leasehold interests could delay the exploration and development of the property and could ultimately result in the loss of some or all of our interest in the property. Mining operations from time to time may rely on an expired lease that we are unable to renew. From time to time we also may be in default with respect to leases for properties on which we have mining operations. In such events, we may have to close down or significantly alter the sequence of such mining operations which may adversely affect our future coal production and future revenues. If we mine on property that we do not own or lease, we could incur liability for such mining. Also, in any such case, the investigation and resolution of title issues would divert management’s time from our business and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Additionally, if we lose any leasehold interests relating to any of our preparation plants, we may need to find an alternative location to process our coal and load it for delivery to customers, which could result in significant unanticipated costs. In order to obtain leases or mining contracts to conduct our mining operations on property where these defects exist, we may in the future have to incur unanticipated costs. In addition, we may not be able to successfully negotiate new leases or mining contracts for properties containing additional reserves, or maintain our leasehold interests in properties where we have not commenced mining operations during the term of the lease. Some leases have minimum production requirements. Failure to meet those requirements could result in losses of prepaid royalties and, in some rare cases, could result in a loss of the lease itself. 39 Table of Contents Our work force could become unionized in the future, which could adversely affect the stability of our production and reduce our profitability. All of our coal production is from mines operated by union-free employees. However, our subsidiaries’ employees have the right at any time under the National Labor Relations Act to form or affiliate with a union. If the terms of a union collective bargaining agreement are significantly different from our current compensation arrangements with our employees, any unionization of our subsidiaries’ employees could adversely affect the stability of our production and reduce our profitability. If the coal industry experiences overcapacity in the future, our profitability could be impaired. During the mid-1970s and early 1980s, a growing coal market and increased demand for coal attracted new investors to the coal industry, spurred the development of new mines and resulted in production capacity in excess of market demand throughout the industry. Similarly, increases in future coal prices could encourage the development of expanded capacity by new or existing coal producers. We are subject to various legal proceedings, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. We are parties to a number of legal proceedings incidental to normal business activities, including several complaints related to the accident at our Sago mine, a breach of contract complaint by on of our customers related to the idling of our Sycamore No. 2 mine, and class action lawsuits that allege that the registration statements filed in connection with our initial public offering contained false and misleading statements, and that investors relied upon those securities filings and suffered damages as a result. Some actions brought against us from time to time may have merit. There is always the potential that an individual matter or the aggregation of many matters could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. See “Legal Proceedings” contained in Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Because of our limited operating history, historical information regarding our company prior to October 1, 2004 is of little relevance in understanding our business as currently conducted. We were incorporated in March 2005 as a holding company and ICG, Inc. was incorporated in May 2004 for the sole purpose of acquiring certain assets of Horizon. Until the completion of the Horizon asset acquisition, we had substantially no operations. As a result, historical information regarding our company prior to October 1, 2004, which does not include the historical financial information for Anker and CoalQuest, is of limited relevance in understanding our business as currently conducted. The financial statements for the Horizon predecessor periods have been prepared from the books and records of Horizon as if we had existed as a separate legal entity under common management for all periods presented (that is, on a “carve-out” basis). The financial statements for the Horizon predecessor periods include allocations of certain expenses, taxation charges, interest and cash balances relating to the predecessor based on management’s estimates. In light of these allocations and estimates, the Horizon predecessor financial information is not necessarily indicative of our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows if we had operated during the Horizon predecessor period presented. See “Selected Financial Data” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Risks Relating To Government Regulation Extensive government regulations impose significant costs on our mining operations, and future regulations could increase those costs or limit our ability to produce and sell coal. The coal mining industry is subject to increasingly strict regulation by federal, state and local authorities with respect to matters such as: • limitations on land use; • employee health and safety; • mandated benefits for retired coal miners; • mine permitting and licensing requirements; • reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed; • air quality standards; • water pollution; • construction and permitting of valley fills required for mining operations; • protection of human health, plantlife and wildlife; • the discharge of materials into the environment; • surface subsidence from underground mining; and • the effects of mining on groundwater quality and availability. 40 Table of Contents In particular, federal and state statutes require us to restore mine property in accordance with specific standards and an approved reclamation plan, and require that we obtain and periodically renew permits for mining operations. If we do not make adequate provisions for all expected reclamation and other costs associated with mine closures, it could harm our future operating results. Federal and state safety and health regulation in the coal mining industry may be the most comprehensive and pervasive system for protection of employee safety and health affecting any segment of the U.S. industry. It is costly and time-consuming to comply with these requirements and new regulations or orders may materially adversely affect our mining operations or cost structure, any of which could harm our future results. Under federal law, each coal mine operator must secure payment of federal black lung benefits to claimants who are current and former employees and contribute to a trust fund for the payment of benefits and medical expenses to claimants who last worked in the coal industry before July 1973. The trust fund is funded by an excise tax on coal production. If this tax increases, or if we could no longer pass it on to the purchaser of our coal under many of our long-term sales contracts, it could increase our operating costs and harm our results. New regulations that took effect in 2001 could significantly increase our costs related to contesting and paying black lung claims. If new laws or regulations increase the number and award size of claims, it could substantially harm our business. The costs, liabilities and requirements associated with these and other regulations may be costly and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production operations. Failure to comply with these regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, the issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations, the suspension or revocation of permits and other enforcement measures that could have the effect of limiting production from our operations. We may also incur costs and liabilities resulting from claims for damages to property or injury to persons arising from our operations. We must compensate employees for work-related injuries. If we do not make adequate provisions for our workers’ compensation liabilities, it could harm our future operating results. If we are pursued for these sanctions, costs and liabilities, our mining operations and, as a result, our profitability could be adversely affected. See “Environmental, Safety and Other Regulatory Matters.” The possibility exists that new legislation and/or regulations and orders may be adopted that may materially adversely affect our mining operations, our cost structure and/or our customers’ ability to use coal. New legislation or administrative regulations (or new judicial interpretations or administrative enforcement of existing laws and regulations), including proposals related to the protection of the environment that would further regulate and tax the coal industry, may also require us or our customers to change operations significantly or incur increased costs. These regulations, if proposed and enacted in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Judicial rulings that restrict disposal of mining spoil material could significantly increase our operating costs, discourage customers from purchasing our coal and materially harm our financial condition and operating results. Mining in the mountainous terrain of Appalachia typically requires the use of valley fills for the disposal of excess spoil (rock and soil material) generated by construction and mining activities. In our surface mining operations, we use mountaintop removal mining wherever feasible because it allows us to recover more tons of coal per acre and facilitates the permitting of larger projects, which allows mining to continue over a longer period of time than would be the case using other mining methods. Mountaintop removal mining, along with other methods of surface mining, depends on valley fills to dispose of mining spoil material. Construction of roads, underground mine portal sites, coal processing and handling facilities and coal refuse embankments or impoundments also require the development of valley fills. We obtain permits to construct and operate valley fills and surface impoundments from the Army Corps of Engineers, or ACOE, under the auspices of Section 404 of the federal Clean Water Act. Lawsuits challenging the ACOE’s authority to authorize surface mining activities under Nationwide Permit 21 or under more comprehensive individual permits have been instituted by environmental groups. The Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals recently rejected one such suit that was originally filed in West Virginia, concluding that the ACOE complied with the Clean Water Act in promulgating Nationwide Permit 21. A similar lawsuit filed in federal court in Kentucky is still pending. However, in a recent decision in a federal district court in West Virginia, the court ruled that the ACOE had inappropriately approved certain Section 404 permits issued to Massey Energy Company and rescinded those permits. An appeal of the court’s decision has been filed in the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals and a decision is expected in mid to late 2008. In the interim, the ACOE Huntington District has altered the permit process to address the court’s decision and has resumed issuing Section 404 permits in the southern district of West Virginia. The Company currently has three subsidiaries in that jurisdiction of West Virginia that will require Section 404 permits within the next two years. A similar challenge to the ACOE Section 404 permit process was launched by environmental groups in Kentucky in December 2007 when a lawsuit was filed in federal court against the ACOE alleging that it wrongfully issued a Section 404 authorization for the expansion of ICG Hazard’s Thunder Ridge surface mine. That permit was suspended on December 26, 2007 to allow the ACOE to review the documentation on which the permit decision was based. All court proceedings are on hold in this case while the ACOE considers its decision. The ACOE’s Louisville District is not expected to issue Section 404 permits for coal mining activities in Kentucky until the court rules in this case. The Company currently has two subsidiaries in that jurisdiction of Kentucky that will require Section 404 permits within the next two years. If permitting requirements are substantially increased or if mining methods at issue are limited or prohibited, it could greatly lengthen the time needed to permit new reserves, significantly increase our operational costs, make it more difficult to economically recover a significant portion of our reserves and lead to a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. We may not be able to increase the price we charge for coal to cover higher production costs without reducing customer demand for our coal. 41 Table of Contents New government regulations as a result of recent mining accidents, including at our Sago mine, are increasing our costs. Both the federal and state governments impose stringent health and safety standards on the mining industry. Regulations are comprehensive and affect nearly every aspect of mining operations, including training of mine personnel, mining procedures, blasting, the equipment used in mining operations and other matters. As a result of recent mining accidents, including at our Sago mine, additional federal and state health and safety regulations have been adopted that have increased operating costs and affect our mining operations. State and federal legislation has been adopted that, among other things, requires additional oxygen supplies, communication and tracking devices, refuge chambers, stronger seal construction and monitoring standards and mine rescue teams. The legislation also raised the maximum civil penalty for certain violations of federal mine safety regulations to $220,000 from $60,000. We also announced our intention to pursue new technology for worker safety, which will require us to incur additional expenses. We expect that new regulations or stricter enforcement of existing regulations will increase our costs related to worker health and safety. Additionally, we could be subject to civil penalties and other penalties if we violate mining regulations. Mining in Northern and Central Appalachia is more complex and involves more regulatory constraints than mining in the other areas, which could affect productivity and cost structures of these areas. The geological characteristics of Northern and Central Appalachian coal reserves, such as depth of overburden and coal seam thickness, make them complex and costly to mine. As mines become depleted, replacement reserves may not be available when required or, if available, may not be capable of being mined at costs comparable to those characteristic of the depleting mines. In addition, as compared to mines in the Powder River Basin in northeastern Wyoming and southeastern Montana, permitting, licensing and other environmental and regulatory requirements are more dynamic and thus more costly and time-consuming to satisfy. These factors could materially adversely affect the mining operations and cost structures of, and customers’ ability to use coal produced by, our mines in Northern and Central Appalachia. MSHA or other federal or state regulatory agencies may order certain of our mines to be temporarily or permanently closed, which could adversely affect or ability to meet our customers’ demands. MSHA or other federal or state regulatory agencies may order certain of our mines to be temporarily or permanently closed. Our customers may challenge our issuance of force majeure notices in connection with such closures. If these challenges are successful, we may have to purchase coal from third-party sources to satisfy those challenges, incur capital expenditures to re-open the mines, and negotiate settlements with the customers, which may include price reductions, the reduction of commitments or the extension of time for delivery, terminate customers’ contracts or face claims initiated by our customers against us. The resolution of these challenges could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We may be unable to obtain and renew permits necessary for our operations, which would reduce our production, cash flow and profitability. Mining companies must obtain numerous permits that impose strict regulations on various environmental and safety matters in connection with coal mining. These include permits issued by various federal and state agencies and regulatory bodies. The permitting rules are complex and may change over time, making our ability to comply with the applicable requirements more difficult or even impossible, thereby precluding continuing or future mining operations. The public has certain rights to comment upon and otherwise engage in the permitting process, including through court intervention. Accordingly, the permits we need may not be issued, maintained or renewed, or may not be issued or renewed in a timely fashion, or may involve requirements that restrict our ability to conduct our mining operations. An inability to conduct our mining operations pursuant to applicable permits would reduce our production, cash flow, and profitability. 42 Table of Contents If the assumptions underlying our reclamation and mine closure obligations are materially inaccurate, we could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. The Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, or SMCRA, establishes operational, reclamation and closure standards for all aspects of surface mining as well as the surface effects of deep mining. Estimates of our total reclamation and mine-closing liabilities are based upon permit requirements, engineering studies and our engineering expertise related to these requirements. The estimate of ultimate reclamation liability is reviewed periodically by our management and engineers. The estimated liability can change significantly if actual costs vary from assumptions or if governmental regulations change significantly. We adopted SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, effective January 1, 2003. SFAS No. 143 requires that retirement obligations be recorded as a liability based on fair value, which is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows. In estimating future cash flows, we considered the estimated current cost of reclamation and applied inflation rates and a third-party profit, as necessary. The third-party profit is an estimate of the approximate markup that would be charged by contractors for work performed on behalf of us. The resulting estimated reclamation and mine closure obligations could change significantly if actual amounts change significantly from our assumptions. Our operations may substantially impact the environment or cause exposure to hazardous materials, and our properties may have significant environmental contamination, any of which could result in material liabilities to us. We use, and in the past have used, hazardous materials and generate, and in the past have generated, hazardous wastes. In addition, many of the locations that we own or operate were used for coal mining and/or involved hazardous materials usage either before or after we were involved with those locations. We may be subject to claims under federal and state statutes, and/or common law doctrines, for toxic torts, natural resource damages, and other damages as well as the investigation and clean up of soil, surface water, groundwater, and other media. Such claims may arise, for example, out of current or former activities at sites that we own or operate currently, as well as at sites that we or predecessor entities owned or operated in the past, and at contaminated sites that have always been owned or operated by third parties. Our liability for such claims may be joint and several, so that we may be held responsible for more than our share of the remediation costs or other damages, or even for the entire share. We have from time to time been subject to claims arising out of contamination at our own and other facilities and may incur such liabilities in the future. We maintain extensive coal slurry impoundments at a number of our mines. Such impoundments are subject to regulation. Slurry impoundments maintained by other coal mining operations have been known to fail, releasing large volumes of coal slurry. Structural failure of an impoundment can result in extensive damage to the environment and natural resources, such as bodies of water that the coal slurry reaches, as well as liability for related personal injuries and property damages, and injuries to wildlife. Some of our impoundments overlie mined out areas, which can pose a heightened risk of failure and of damages arising out of failure. We have commenced measures to modify our method of operation at one surface impoundment containing slurry wastes in order to reduce the risk of releases to the environment from it, a process that will take several years to complete. If one of our impoundments were to fail, we could be subject to substantial claims for the resulting environmental contamination and associated liability, as well as for fines and penalties. These and other impacts that our operations may have on the environment, as well as exposures to hazardous substances or wastes associated with our operations and environmental conditions at our properties, could result in costs and liabilities that would materially and adversely affect us. 43 Table of Contents Extensive environmental regulations affect our customers and could reduce the demand for coal as a fuel source and cause our sales to decline. The Clean Air Act and similar state and local laws extensively regulate the amount of sulfur dioxide, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, and other compounds emitted into the air from coke ovens and electric power plants, which are the largest end-users of our coal. Such regulations will require significant emissions control expenditures for many coal-fired power plants to comply with applicable ambient air quality standards. As a result, these generators may switch to other fuels that generate less of these emissions, possibly reducing future demand for coal and the construction of coal-fired power plants. The Federal Clean Air Act, including the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, and corresponding state laws that regulate emissions of materials into the air affect coal mining operations both directly and indirectly. Measures intended to improve air quality that reduce coal’s share of the capacity for power generation could diminish our revenues and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The price of higher sulfur coal may decrease as more coal-fired utility power plants install additional pollution control equipment to comply with stricter sulfur dioxide emission limits, which may reduce our revenues and harm our results. In addition, regulatory initiatives including the nitrogen oxide rules, new ozone and particulate matter standards, regional haze regulations, new source review, regulation of mercury emissions, and legislation or regulations that establish restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions or provide for other multiple pollutant reductions could make coal a less attractive fuel to our utility customers and substantially reduce our sales. Various new and proposed laws and regulations may require further reductions in emissions from coal-fired utilities. For example, under the Clean Air Interstate Rule issued in March 2005, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, has further regulated sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides from coal-fired power plants. Among other things, in affected states, the rule mandates reductions in sulfur dioxide emissions by approximately 45% below 2003 levels by 2010, and by approximately 57% below 2003 levels by 2015. The stringency of this cap may require many coal-fired sources to install additional pollution control equipment, such as wet scrubbers. Installation of additional pollution control equipment required by this proposed rule could result in a decrease in the demand for low sulfur coal (because sulfur would be removed by the new equipment), potentially driving down prices for low sulfur coal. In March 2006, the EPA denied petitions to reconsider the Clean Air Interstate Rule and promulgated federal implementation plans for this rule, which are subject to judicial challenge. In February 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia ruled that the EPA’s 2005 Clean Air Mercury Rule violates the Clean Air Act and gave the agency two years to develop mercury emissions standards. Some states, including Georgia and North Carolina, are adopting or proposing to adopt more stringent restrictions on mercury emissions than those contained in the Clean Air Mercury Rule. These and other future standards could have the effect of making the operation of coal-fired plants less profitable, thereby decreasing demand for coal. The majority of our coal supply agreements contain provisions that allow a purchaser to terminate its contract if legislation is passed that either restricts the use or type of coal permissible at the purchaser’s plant or results in specified increases in the cost of coal or its use. There have been several recent proposals in Congress that are designed to further reduce emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and mercury from power plants, and certain ones could regulate additional air pollutants. If such initiatives are enacted into law, power plant operators could choose fuel sources other than coal to meet their requirements, thereby reducing the demand for coal. A regional haze program initiated by the EPA to protect and to improve visibility at and around national parks, national wilderness areas and international parks restricts the construction of new coal-fired power plants whose operation may impair visibility at and around federally protected areas, and may require some existing coal-fired power plants to install additional control measures designed to limit haze-causing emissions. 44 Table of Contents New and pending laws regulating the environmental effects of emissions of greenhouse gases could impose significant additional costs to doing business for the coal industry and/or a shift in consumption to non-fossil fuels. Greenhouse gas emissions have increasingly become the subject of a large amount of international, national, state and local attention. Although the United States did not join the 1992 Framework Convention on Global Climate Change, commonly known as the Kyoto Protocol, future regulation of greenhouse gas could occur either pursuant to future U.S. treaty obligations or pursuant to statutory or regulatory changes under the Clean Air Act. Increased efforts to control greenhouse gas emissions, including the future joining of the Kyoto Protocol, could result in reduced demand for coal if electric power generators switch to lower carbon sources of fuel. If the United States were to ratify the Kyoto Protocol, the United States would be required to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to 93% of 1990 levels in a series of phased reductions from 2008 to 2012. At the Group of Eight meeting in June 2007, President Bush announced a long-term strategy on climate change. The proposed strategy calls for consensus on long-term goals for reducing the greenhouse gases by a set amount by about 2050. These meetings could help result in post-Kyoto regulation, and could lead to United States inclusion in the global regulation of greenhouse emissions. Coal-fired power plants can generate large amounts of carbon emissions, and, as a result, have become subject to challenge by environmental groups seeking to curb the environmental effects of emissions of greenhouse gases. Various legislation has recently been introduced in Congress which reflects a wide variety of strategies for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the United States. These strategies include mandating decreases in carbon dioxide emissions from coal-fired power plants, instituting a carbon tax on emissions of carbon dioxide, banning the construction of new coal-fired power plants that are not equipped with technology to capture and sequester carbon dioxide, encouraging the growth of renewable energy sources (such as wind or solar power) or nuclear for electricity production, financing the development of advanced coal burning plants which have greatly reduced carbon dioxide emissions. Other states are considering initiatives, and California has enacted policies, banning the purchase of power generated by the burning of coal. In addition, a number of states in the United States have taken steps to regulate greenhouse gas emissions. For example, seven northeastern states (New York, Vermont, New Hampshire, Maine, Connecticut, Delaware and New Jersey) entered into the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (“RGGI”) agreement in December 2005 to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from power plants, and in August 2006 finalized a model rule to help implement the agreement; and Maryland, Massachusetts and Rhode Island subsequently agreed to join RGGI, and Pennsylvania remains an observer state. In addition, in Massachusetts v. Environmental Protection Agency, a U.S. Supreme Court decision in April 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in favor of twelve states and several cities of the United States against the EPA, and held that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases can qualify as pollutants under the Clean Air Act. As a result, the EPA may issue regulations related to greenhouse gas emissions. Passage of additional state or federal laws or regulations regarding greenhouse gas emissions or other actions to limit carbon dioxide emissions could result in fuel switching, from coal to other fuel sources, by electric generators. Such laws and regulations could, for example, include mandating decreases in carbon dioxide emissions from coal-fired power plants, imposing taxes on carbon emissions, requiring certain technology to capture and sequester carbon dioxide from new coal-fired power plants, and encouraging the production of non-coal-fired power plants. If measures such as these or other similar measures are ultimately imposed by federal or state governments or pursuant to international treaty on the coal industry, our operating costs may be materially and adversely affected. Similarly, alternative fuels (non fossil-fuels) could become more attractive than coal in order to reduce carbon emissions, which could result in a reduction in the demand for coal and, therefore, our revenues. 45 Table of Contents Risks Relating To Our Common Stock Our leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our total consolidated long-term debt as of December 31, 2007 was approximately $408.1 million and represented approximately 44% of our total capitalization, excluding current indebtedness of approximately $4.2 million, as of that date. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences on our future operations, including: • making it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under our outstanding senior and convertible notes and our other outstanding debt; • resulting in an event of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements, which could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable; • subjecting us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases on our indebtedness with variable interest rates, including borrowings under our senior credit facility; • reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify. In addition to the principal repayments on our outstanding debt, we have other demands on our cash resources, including, among others, capital expenditures and operating expenses. Our ability to pay principal and interest on and to refinance our debt depends upon the operating performance of our subsidiaries, which will be affected by, among other things, general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. In particular, economic conditions could cause the price of coal to fall, our revenue to decline, and hamper our ability to repay our indebtedness, including our outstanding senior and convertible notes. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us under our senior credit facility or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness including anticipated interest on the notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our ability and the ability of some of our subsidiaries to engage in some business transactions or to pursue our business strategy may be limited by the terms of our existing debt. Our senior credit facility contains a number of financial covenants requiring us to meet financial ratios and financial condition tests. The indenture governing our outstanding senior notes and our senior credit facility also restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to: • incur additional debt or issue guarantees; • pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase capital stock; • allow our subsidiaries to issue new stock to any person other than us or any of our other subsidiaries; • make certain investments; • make acquisitions; • incur, or permit to exist, liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • guarantee the debt of other entities, including joint ventures; • merge or consolidate or otherwise combine with another company; and • transfer or sell a material amount of our assets outside the ordinary course of business. These covenants could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to execute preferred business strategies. 46 Table of Contents Our ability to borrow under our senior credit facility will depend upon our ability to comply with these covenants and our borrowing base requirements. Our ability to meet these covenants and requirements may be affected by events beyond our control and we may not meet these obligations. From time to time, we have amended or revised our financial covenants, and have also received waivers of covenant compliance under our senior credit facility. However, we may not continue to receive waivers from our lenders or be permitted to amend the financial covenants. Our failure to comply with these covenants and requirements could result in an event of default under the indenture governing our outstanding senior notes that, if not cured or waived, could permit acceleration of our outstanding convertible and senior notes and permit foreclosure on any collateral granted as security under our senior credit facility. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay the notes or borrow sufficient funds to refinance the notes. Even if we were able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If our debt is in default for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to limitations on capital expenditures under our senior credit facility. Because of these limitations, we may not be able to pursue our business strategy to replace our equipment fleet as it ages, develop additional mines or pursue additional acquisitions without additional financing. Changes in the accounting treatment of certain of our existing securities could decrease our earnings per share. There may be, in the future, potentially new or different accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings, which could impact the way we are required to account for our securities, and which may have an adverse impact on our future financial condition and results of operations. With respect to our convertible notes, we are required under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, as presently in effect to include in outstanding shares for purposes of computing diluted earnings per share only a number of shares underlying the notes that, at the end of a given quarter, have a value in excess of the outstanding principal amount of the notes. This is because of the “net share settlement” feature of the notes, under which we are required to pay the principal amount of the notes in cash. The accounting method for net share settled convertible securities is currently under consideration by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”). Under consideration is a proposed method of accounting for net share settled convertible securities under which the debt and equity components of the security would be bifurcated and accounted for separately. The outcome of this process could result in our being required to recognize additional interest expense, increase the number of shares we count as outstanding for purposes of measuring earnings per share, or a combination of both, which would in turn reduce our earnings per share. The conditional conversion feature of the notes could result in your receiving less than the value of the common stock into which a note would otherwise be convertible. At certain times, the notes are convertible into cash and, if applicable, shares of our common stock only if specified conditions are met. If these conditions are not met, you will not be able to convert your notes at that time, and, upon a later conversion, you may not be able to receive the value of the common stock into which the convertible notes would otherwise have been convertible had such conditions been met. Our money market fund is vulnerable to market-specific risks that could adversely affect our financial position, future earnings or cash flows. We currently have a portion of our assets invested in a money market fund. This investment is subject to investment market risk and our income from this investment could be adversely affected by a decline in value. In the case of money market accounts and other fixed income investment products, which invest in high-quality short-term money market instruments, as well as other fixed income securities, the value of the assets may decline as a result of changes in interest rates, an issuer’s actual or perceived creditworthiness or an issuer’s ability to meet its obligations. A significant decrease in the net asset value of the securities underlying the money market fund could cause a material decline in our net income and cash flows. 47 Table of Contents Provisions of our debt could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. Certain provisions of our debt, could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a fundamental change, holders of both series of notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase, at a cash repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest on the notes, all of their notes or any portion of the principal amount of such notes in integral multiples of $1,000. We may also be required to issue additional shares of our common stock upon conversion of such notes in the event of certain fundamental changes. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware corporate law may make it difficult for our stockholders to replace or remove our current board of directors and could deter or delay third-parties from acquiring us, which may adversely affect the marketability and market price of our common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and in Delaware corporate law may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year, and thus prevent them from changing the composition of management. In addition, the same provisions may make it difficult and expensive for a third-party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by our management and board of directors. Public stockholders who might desire to participate in this type of transaction may not have an opportunity to do so. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change in control or change our management and board of directors and, as a result, may adversely affect the marketability and market price of our common stock. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under these provisions, if anyone becomes an “interested stockholder,” we may not enter into a “business combination” with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. For purposes of Section 203, “interested stockholder” means, generally, someone owning more than 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in Section 203. Under any change of control, the lenders under our credit facilities would have the right to require us to repay all of our outstanding obligations under the facility. There may be circumstances in which the interests of our major stockholders could be in conflict with the interests of a stockholder or noteholder. As of December 31, 2007, funds sponsored by WLR own approximately 16% of our common stock. Circumstances may occur in which WLR or other major investors may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures or other transactions, including among other things, taking advantage of certain corporate opportunities that, in their judgment, could enhance their investment in us or another company in which they invest. These transactions might invoke risks to our other holders of common stock or adversely affect us or other investors. We may from time to time engage in transactions with related parties and affiliates that include, among other things, business arrangements, lease arrangements for certain coal reserves and the payment of fees or commissions for the transfer of coal reserves by one operating company to another. These transactions, if any, may adversely effect our sales volumes, margins and earnings. 48 Table of Contents If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, the market price of our common stock may decline. As of December 31, 2007, we had 152,992,109 shares of common stock outstanding. The number of shares of common stock available for resale in the public market is limited in certain circumstances by restrictions under federal securities. All of the shares sold in our public offering, as well as all of the shares issued by us in the corporate reorganization, are freely tradable without restrictions or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except for any shares held by our affiliates, as defined in Rule 144 of the Securities Act. Additional shares of common stock underlying options granted or to be granted will become available for sale in the public market. We have also filed a registration statement on Form S-8 that registered 8,525,302 shares of common stock covering shares of restricted stock granted to our executives and the shares of common stock to be issued pursuant to the exercise of options we have granted or will grant under our employee stock option plan and a certain employment agreement. Our stock price could drop significantly if the holders of these restricted shares sell them or the market perceives they intend to sell them. These sales may also make it more difficult for us to sell securities in the future at a time and at a price we deem appropriate. We may not pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We may retain any future earnings to support the development and expansion of our business or make additional payments under our credit facilities and, as a result, we may not pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Our payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, cash needs, growth plans and the terms of any credit agreements that we may be a party to at the time. Our credit facilities limit us from paying cash dividends or other payments or distributions with respect to our capital stock in excess of certain limitations. In addition, the terms of any future credit agreement may contain similar restrictions on our ability to pay any dividends or make any distributions or payments with respect to our capital stock. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize their investment. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 49 Table of Contents 