ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The risk and uncertainties we describe below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not currently know or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. Compliance with changes in federal regulations applicable to long-term acute care hospitals operated as “hospitals within hospitals” or as “satellites” will result in increased capital expenditures and may have an adverse effect on our future net operating revenues and profitability. On August 11, 2004, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, also known as CMS, published final regulations applicable to long-term acute care hospitals that are operated as “hospitals within hospitals” or as “satellites” (collectively referred to as “HIHs”). HIHs are separate hospitals located in space leased from, and located in or on the same campus of, general acute care hospitals, known as “host” hospitals. Effective for hospital cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2004, the final regulations, subject to certain exceptions, provide lower rates of reimbursement to HIHs for those Medicare patients admitted from their host hospitals that are in excess of a specified percentage threshold. For HIHs opened after October 1, 2004, the Medicare admissions threshold has been established at 25%. For HIHs that meet specified criteria and were in existence as of October 1, 2004, including all but two of our then existing HIHs, the Medicare admissions thresholds are phased-in over a four-year period starting with hospital cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2004, as follows: (i) for discharges during the cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 2004 and before October 1, 2005, the Medicare admissions threshold was the Fiscal 2004 Percentage (as defined below) of Medicare discharges admitted from the host hospital; (ii) for discharges during the cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 2005 and before October 1, 2006, the Medicare admissions threshold is the lesser of the Fiscal 2004 Percentage of Medicare discharges admitted from the host hospital or 75%; (iii) for discharges during the cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 2006 and before October 1, 2007, the Medicare admissions threshold is the lesser of the Fiscal 2004 Percentage of Medicare discharges admitted from the host hospital or 50%; and (iv) for discharges during cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2007, the Medicare admissions threshold is 25%. As used above, “Fiscal 2004 Percentage” means, with respect to any HIH, the percentage of all Medicare patients discharged by such HIH during its cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 2003 and before October 1, 2004 who were admitted to such HIH from its host hospital, but in no event is the Fiscal 2004 Percentage less than 25%. At December 31, 2006, 79 of our 92 long-term acute care hospitals operated as HIHs. - 21 - Table of Contents During the year ended December 31, 2006, we recorded a liability of approximately $4.6 million related to estimated repayments to Medicare for host admissions exceeding an HIH hospital’s threshold. The liability has been recorded through a reduction in our net revenue. Because these rules are complex and are based on the volume of Medicare admissions from our host hospitals as a percent of our overall Medicare admissions, we cannot predict with any certainty the impact on our future net operating revenues of compliance with these regulations. However, we expect the financial impact to increase as the Medicare admissions thresholds decline during the phase-in of the regulations. In order to minimize the impact of the HIH regulations, we have developed and are currently implementing a business plan and strategy in each of our markets to adapt to the HIH admission regulations. Our transition plan includes managing admissions at existing HIHs, relocating certain HIHs to leased spaces in smaller host hospitals in the same markets, consolidating HIHs in certain of our markets, relocating certain of our facilities to alternative settings, building or buying free-standing facilities and closing some of our facilities. There can be no assurance that we can successfully implement such changes to our existing HIH business model or successfully control the capital expenditures associated with such changes. As a result, our ability to operate our long-term acute care hospitals effectively and our net operating revenues and profitably may be adversely affected. For example, because physicians generally direct the majority of hospital admissions, our net operating revenues and profitability may decline if the relocation efforts for certain of our HIHs adversely affect our relationships with the physicians in those communities. In addition, if CMS implements the February 2007 proposed additional regulatory changes regarding admissions to long-term acute care hospitals, our plan will have to be revised. Government implementation of recent changes to Medicare’s method of reimbursing our long-term acute care hospitals will reduce our future net operating revenues and profitability. All Medicare payments to our long-term acute care hospitals are made in accordance with a prospective payment system specifically applicable to long-term acute care hospitals, referred to as “LTCH-PPS.” Under LTCH-PPS, a long-term acute care hospital is paid a pre-determined fixed amount depending upon the long-term care diagnosis-related group, or “LTC-DRG,” to which each patient is assigned. LTCH-PPS includes special payment policies that adjust the payments for some patients based on a variety of factors. On May 2, 2006, CMS released its final annual payment rate updates for the 2007 LTCH-PPS rate year (affecting discharges and cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2006 and before July 1, 2007). The May 2006 final rule makes several changes to LTCH-PPS payment methodologies and amounts. For discharges occurring on or after July 1, 2006, the rule changes the payment methodology for Medicare patients with a length of stay less than or equal to five-sixths of the geometric average length of stay for each LTC-DRG (referred to as “short-stay outlier” or “SSO” cases). Previously, payment for these patients was based on the lesser of (1) 120 percent of the cost of the case; (2) 120 percent of the LTC-DRG specific per diem amount multiplied by the patient’s length of stay; or (3) the full LTC-DRG payment. The final rule modifies the limitation in clause (1) above to reduce payment for SSO cases to 100 percent (rather than 120 percent) of the cost of the case. The final rule also adds a fourth limitation, capping payment for SSO cases at a per diem rate derived from blending 120 percent of the LTC-DRG specific per diem amount with a per diem rate based on the general acute care hospital inpatient prospective payment system (“IPPS”). Under this methodology, as a patient’s length of stay increases, the percentage of the per diem amount based upon the IPPS component will decrease and the percentage based on the LTC-DRG component will increase. In its February 2007 proposed rule, CMS also stated that it was considering a new limitation for short-stay outlier cases. Specifically, CMS stated that it was considering an approach by which payment for each short-stay outlier case having a length of stay that is shorter than an “IPPS Comparable Threshold” would be limited to a per diem amount comparable to the per diem payment under IPPS for - 22 - Table of Contents the same DRG. The IPPS Comparable Threshold would be the average length of stay in a general acute care hospital plus one standard deviation for the same DRG. In addition, for discharges occurring on or after July 1, 2006, the May 2006 final rule provides for (i) a zero-percent update for the 2007 LTCH-PPS rate year to the LTCH-PPS standard federal rate used as a basis for LTCH-PPS payments; (ii) the elimination of the surgical case exception to the three-day or less interruption of stay policy, under which surgical exception Medicare reimburses a general acute care hospital directly for surgical services furnished to a long-term acute care hospital patient during a brief interruption of stay from the long-term acute care hospital, rather than requiring the long-term acute care hospital to bear responsibility for such surgical services; and (iii) increasing the costs that a long-term acute care hospital must bear before Medicare will make additional payments for a case under its high-cost outlier policy for the 2007 LTCH-PPS rate year. CMS estimated that the changes in the May 2006 final rule will result in an approximately 3.7 percent decrease in LTCH Medicare payments-per-discharge as compared to the 2006 rate year, largely attributable to the revised SSO payment methodology. Based upon our historical Medicare patient volumes and revenues, we expect that the May 2006 final rule will reduce Medicare revenues associated with SSO cases and high-cost outlier cases to our long-term acute care hospitals by approximately $30.0 million on an annual basis. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we estimate the reduction in Medicare payment for discharges occurring since the implementation of the May 2006 rule change on July 1, 2006 approximated $14.0 million. Additionally, had CMS updated the LTCH-PPS standard federal rate by the 2007 estimated market basket index of 3.4 percent rather than applying the zero-percent update, we estimate that we would have received approximately $31.0 million in additional annual Medicare revenues, based on our historical Medicare patient volumes and revenues (such revenues would have been paid to our hospitals for discharges beginning on or after July 1, 2006). On August 18, 2006, CMS published the IPPS final rule for fiscal year 2007, which included an update of the LTC-DRG relative weights for fiscal year 2007. In addition to other reductions in payments, CMS estimates the changes to the relative weights in the August 2006 final rule will reduce LTCH Medicare payments-per-discharge by approximately 1.3 percent in fiscal year 2007. See “Business — Specialty Hospitals — Recent Long-Term Acute Care Hospital Regulatory Developments” and “Business — Government Regulations — Overview of U.S. and State Government Reimbursements — Long-term acute care hospital Medicare reimbursement.” If our long-term acute care hospitals fail to maintain their certifications as long-term acute care hospitals or if our facilities operated as HIHs fail to qualify as hospitals separate from their host hospitals, our net operating revenues and profitability may decline. As of December 31, 2006, 89 of our 92 long-term acute care hospitals were certified by Medicare as long-term acute care hospitals, and three more were in the process of becoming certified as Medicare long-term acute care hospitals. If our long-term acute care hospitals fail to meet or maintain the standards for certification as long-term acute care hospitals, namely minimum average length of patient stay, they will receive payments under the prospective payment system applicable to general acute care hospitals rather than payment under the system applicable to long-term acute care hospitals. Payments at rates applicable to general acute care hospitals would result in our long-term acute care hospitals receiving less Medicare reimbursement than they currently receive for their patient services. In its preamble to the May 2006 final rule updating the long-term acute care Medicare prospective payment system, CMS discussed the contract that it has awarded to Research Triangle Institute, International, or RTI, to examine recommendations made by the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, or MedPAC, concerning how long-term acute care hospitals are defined and differentiated from other types of Medicare providers. MedPAC is an independent federal body that advises Congress on issues affecting the Medicare program. In its June 2004 “Report to Congress,” MedPAC recommended the adoption by CMS of new facility staffing and services criteria and patient clinical characteristics and - 23 - Table of Contents treatment requirements for long-term acute care hospitals in order to ensure that only appropriate patients are admitted to these facilities. RTI’s January 2007 Phase II report entitled “Long-Term Care Hospital (LTCH) Payment System Monitoring and Evaluation” was delivered to CMS. While acknowledging that RTI’s findings are expected to have a substantial impact on future Medicare policy for long-term acute care hospitals, CMS previously stated in the May 2006 final rule that many of the specific payment adjustment features of LTCH-PPS presently in place may still be necessary and appropriate even with the development of patient- and facility-level criteria for long-term acute care hospitals. In the February 2007 proposed rule, CMS acknowledged that RTI’s recommendations would require further study and, in some instances, action by Congress in order to accomplish certain recommendations. RTI has solicited on-going involvement of physicians familiar with LTCH type patients for participation in a technical expert panel to further develop its recommendations. Failure to meet existing long-term acute care certification criteria or implementation of additional criteria that would limit the population of patients eligible for our hospitals’ services or change the basis on which we are paid could adversely affect our net operating revenues and profitability. At December 31, 2006, 79 of our 92 long-term acute care hospitals operate as HIHs and as a result are subject to additional Medicare criteria that require certain indications of separateness from the host hospital. If any of our long-term acute care HIHs fail to meet the separateness requirements, they will be reimbursed at the lower general acute care IPPS rate, which would cause our net operating revenues and profitability to decrease. See “Business — Government Regulations — Overview of U.S. and State Government Reimbursements — Long-term acute care hospital Medicare reimbursement.” Implementation of modifications to the admissions policies for our inpatient rehabilitation facilities as required in order to achieve compliance with Medicare regulations may result in a loss of patient volume at these hospitals and, as a result, may reduce our future net operating revenues and profitability. As of December 31, 2006, our four acute medical rehabilitation hospitals were certified by Medicare as inpatient rehabilitation facilities. Under the historic inpatient rehabilitation facility, or IRF, certification criteria that had been in effect since 1983, in order to qualify as an IRF, a hospital was required to satisfy certain operational criteria as well as demonstrate that, during its most recent 12-month cost reporting period, it served an inpatient population of whom at least 75% required intensive rehabilitation services for one or more of ten conditions specified in the regulations (referred to as the “75% test”). In 2002, CMS became aware that its various contractors were using inconsistent methods to assess compliance with the 75% test and that many inpatient rehabilitation facilities were not in compliance with the 75% test. In response, in June 2002, CMS suspended enforcement of the 75% test and, on September 9, 2003, proposed modifications to the regulatory standards for certification as an IRF. Notwithstanding concerns stated by the industry and Congress in late 2003 and early 2004 about the adverse impact that CMS’s proposed changes and renewed enforcement efforts might have on access to inpatient rehabilitation facility services, and notwithstanding Congressional requests that CMS delay implementation of or changes to the 75% test for additional study of clinically appropriate certification criteria, on May 7, 2004, CMS adopted a final rule that made significant changes to the certification standard. CMS temporarily lowered the 75% compliance threshold to 50%, with a gradual increase back to 75% over the course of a four-year period. CMS also expanded from 10 to 13 the number of medical conditions used to determine compliance with the 75% test (or any phase-in percentage) and finalized the conditions under which comorbidities may be used to satisfy the 75% test. Finally, CMS changed the timeframe used to determine a provider’s compliance with the inpatient rehabilitation facility criteria including the 75% test so that any changes in a facility’s certification based on compliance with the 75% test may be made effective in the cost reporting period immediately following the review period for determining compliance. Congress temporarily suspended enforcement of the 75% test when it enacted the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2005, which required the Secretary of Health and Human Services to respond within 60 days to a report by the Government Accountability Office, or GAO, on the standards for defining inpatient rehabilitation services before the Secretary may terminate a hospital’s designation - 24 - Table of Contents as an inpatient rehabilitation facility for failure to meet the 75% test. The GAO issued its report on April 22, 2005, and recommended that CMS, based on further research, refine the 75% test to describe more thoroughly the subgroups of patients within the qualifying conditions that are appropriate for care in an inpatient rehabilitation facility. The Secretary issued a formal response to the GAO study on June 24, 2005, in which it concluded that the revised inpatient rehabilitation facility certification standards, including the 75% test, were consistent with the recommendations in the GAO report. In light of this determination, the Secretary announced that CMS would immediately begin enforcement of the revised certification standards. Subsequently, under the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, enacted on February 8, 2006, Congress extended the phase-in period for the 75% test by maintaining the compliance threshold at 60% (rather than increasing it to 65%) during the 12-month period beginning on July 1, 2006. The compliance threshold then increases to 65% for cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2007 and again to 75% for cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2008. The inpatient rehabilitation facilities we acquired as part of our Kessler acquisition in September 2003 may not have fully met the historic standard. In order to achieve compliance with the revised 75% test, it may be necessary for us to implement more restrictive admissions policies at our inpatient rehabilitation facilities and not admit patients whose diagnoses fall outside the specified conditions. Such policies may result in decreased patient volumes, which could have a negative effect on the financial performance of these facilities. See “Business — Government Regulations — Overview of U.S. and State Government Reimbursements — Inpatient rehabilitation facility Medicare reimbursement.” Implementation of annual caps that limit the amounts that can be paid for outpatient therapy services rendered to any Medicare beneficiary may reduce our future net operating revenues and profitability. Our outpatient rehabilitation clinics receive payments from the Medicare program under a fee schedule. Congress has established annual caps that limit the amounts that can be paid (including deductible and coinsurance amounts) for outpatient therapy services rendered to any Medicare beneficiary. These annual caps were to go into effect on January 1, 1999; however, after their adoption, Congress imposed a moratorium on the caps through 2002, and then re-imposed the moratorium for 2004 and 2005. Congress allowed the therapy caps to go back into effect on January 1, 2006. The inflation adjusted caps were $1,740 in 2006 and are $1,780 in 2007. As directed by Congress in the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, CMS has implemented an exception process for therapy expenses incurred in 2006. Under this process, a Medicare enrollee (or person acting on behalf of the Medicare enrollee) was able to request an exception from the therapy caps if the provision of therapy services was deemed to be medically necessary. Therapy cap exceptions were available automatically for certain conditions and on a case-by-case basis upon submission of documentation of medical necessity. The Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 extends the therapy cap exception process through 2007. We believe these therapy caps could have an adverse effect on the net operating revenues we generate from providing outpatient rehabilitation services to Medicare beneficiaries, to the extent that such patients receive services for which total payments would exceed the annual caps. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we received approximately 8% of our outpatient rehabilitation net operating revenues from Medicare. See “Business — Government Regulations — Overview of U.S. and State Government Reimbursements — Outpatient rehabilitation services Medicare reimbursement.” If there are changes in the rates or methods of government reimbursements for our services, our net operating revenues and profitability could decline. Approximately 53% of our net operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 came from the highly regulated federal Medicare program. In recent years, through legislative and regulatory actions, the federal government has made substantial changes to various payment systems under the - 25 - Table of Contents Medicare program. Additional changes to these payment systems, including modifications to the conditions on qualification for payment and the imposition of enrollment limitations on new providers, may be proposed or could be adopted, either in Congress or by CMS. Because of the possibility of adoption of changes in applicable regulations, the availability, methods and rates of Medicare reimbursements for services of the type furnished at our facilities could change at any time. Some of these changes and proposed changes could adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. In addition, there can be no assurance that any increases in Medicare reimbursement rates established by CMS will fully reflect increases in our operating costs. If the February 2007 proposed rule is adopted as proposed, several changes to LTCH-PPS payment methodologies and amounts will be implemented during RY 2008 (affecting discharges and cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2007 and before July 1, 2008). The final rule, which may differ from the proposed rule, is expected to be published in May of 2007. Compliance with the final rule and any changes to LTCH-PPS may have an adverse effect on our future net operating revenues and profitability. For cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2007, the February 2007 proposed rule would expand the current Medicare HIH admissions threshold to apply to Medicare patients admitted from any individual hospital. (Currently, the admissions threshold is applicable only to Medicare HIH admissions from hospitals co-located with a LTCH or satellite of an LTCH.) If the proposed rule is adopted, free-standing LTCHs and grandfathered LTCH HIHs would be subject to the Medicare admission threshold, as well as HIHs and satellites that admit Medicare patients from non-co-located hospitals. To the extent that any LTCH’s or LTCH satellite facility’s discharges that are admitted from an individual hospital (regardless of whether the referring hospital is co-located with the LTCH or LTCH satellite) exceed 25% or the applicable percentage threshold during a particular cost reporting period, the payment rate for those discharges would be subject to a downward payment adjustment. The percentage threshold for long-term acute care hospital discharges from a referring hospital that is an “MSA-dominant” hospital or a single urban hospital would be the percentage of total Medicare discharges in the metropolitan statistical area (“MSA”) that are from the referring hospital, but no less than 25% nor more than 50%. For Medicare discharges from LTCHs or LTCH satellites located in rural areas, as defined by the Office of Management and Budget, the percentage threshold would be 50% from any individual referring hospital. Cases admitted in excess of the applicable threshold would be reimbursed at a rate comparable to the general acute care IPPS. Cases that reach outlier status in the discharging hospital would not count toward the limit and would be paid under LTCH-PPS. CMS estimates the impact of the expansion of the Medicare admission threshold would result in a reduction of 2.2% of the aggregate payments to all LTCHs in RY 2008. If the February 2007 proposed rule is adopted, existing free-standing LTCHs and grandfathered LTCH HIHs would be subject to an abbreviated phase-in. For a cost reporting period beginning on or after July 1, 2007 and before October 1, 2007, the applicable percentage threshold would be the lesser of LTCH or LTCH satellite’s Medicare discharges admitted from the referring hospital during the cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 2004 and before October 1, 2005 or 50%. For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2007, the applicable percentage threshold would be 25%. The same abbreviated phase-in would apply to Medicare discharges of HIHs and satellites that were admitted from a non-co-located hospital. Of the 92 long-term acute care hospitals we operated as of December 31, 2006, 13 were operated as free-standing facilities and two qualified as grandfathered LTCH HIHs. If adopted, the February 2007 proposed rule may adversely affect our plan to relocate certain facilities to free-standing locations and could adversely effect our net operating revenues and profitability. - 26 - Table of Contents We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry, and changes in regulations or violations of regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions that reduce our net operating revenues and profitability. The healthcare industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to: • facility and professional licensure, including certificates of need; • conduct of operations, including financial relationships among healthcare providers, Medicare fraud and abuse, and physician self-referral; • addition of facilities and services and enrollment of newly developed facilities in the Medicare program; • payment for services; and • safeguarding protected health information. Recently, there have been heightened coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts by both federal and state government agencies relating to the healthcare industry. The ongoing investigations relate to, among other things, various referral practices, cost reporting, billing practices, physician ownership and joint ventures involving hospitals. In the future, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services and capital expenditure programs, increase our operating expenses and reduce our operating revenues. If we fail to comply with these extensive laws and government regulations, we could become ineligible to receive government program reimbursement, suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. In addition, we could be forced to expend considerable resources responding to an investigation or other enforcement action under these laws or regulations. See “Business — Government Regulations.” Future acquisitions may use significant resources, may be unsuccessful and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. As part of our growth strategy, we may pursue acquisitions of specialty hospitals, outpatient rehabilitation clinics and other related health care facilities and services, such as Select’s pending acquisition of HealthSouth’s outpatient rehabilitation division. These acquisitions may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, additional operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • the difficulty and expense of integrating acquired personnel into our business; • diversion of management’s time from existing operations; • potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired companies; and • assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare regulations. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in obtaining financing for acquisitions at a reasonable cost, or that such financing will not contain restrictive covenants that limit our operating flexibility. We - 27 - Table of Contents also may be unable to operate acquired hospitals and outpatient rehabilitation clinics profitably or succeed in achieving improvements in their financial performance. Future cost containment initiatives undertaken by private third-party payors may limit our future net operating revenues and profitability. Initiatives undertaken by major insurers and managed care companies to contain healthcare costs affect the profitability of our specialty hospitals and outpatient rehabilitation clinics. These payors attempt to control healthcare costs by contracting with hospitals and other healthcare providers to obtain services on a discounted basis. We believe that this trend may continue and may limit reimbursements for healthcare services. If insurers or managed care companies from whom we receive substantial payments reduce the amounts they pay for services, our profit margins may decline, or we may lose patients if we choose not to renew our contracts with these insurers at lower rates. If we fail to maintain established relationships with the physicians in our markets, our net operating revenues may decrease. Our success is, in part, dependent upon the admissions and referral practices of the physicians in the communities our hospitals and our outpatient rehabilitation clinics serve, and our ability to maintain good relations with these physicians. Physicians referring patients to our hospitals and clinics are generally not our employees and, in many of the markets that we serve, most physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals and are free to refer their patients to other providers. If we are unable to successfully cultivate and maintain strong relationships with these physicians, our hospitals’ admissions and clinics’ businesses may decrease, and our net operating revenues may decline. Shortages in qualified nurses or therapists could increase our operating costs significantly. Our specialty hospitals are highly dependent on nurses for patient care and our outpatient rehabilitation clinics are highly dependant on therapists for patient care. The availability of qualified nurses and therapists nationwide has declined in recent years, and the salaries for nurses and therapists have risen accordingly. We cannot assure you we will be able to attract and retain qualified nurses or therapists in the future. Additionally, the cost of attracting and retaining nurses and therapists may be higher than we anticipate, and as a result, our profitability could decline. Competition may limit our ability to acquire hospitals and clinics and adversely affect our growth. We have historically faced limited competition in acquiring specialty hospitals and outpatient rehabilitation clinics, but we may face heightened competition in the future. Our competitors may acquire or seek to acquire many of the hospitals and clinics that would be suitable acquisition candidates for us. In addition, in recent years we have experienced increased competition for hospitals and clinics that would be suitable acquisition candidates for us from financial buyers. This increased competition could hamper our ability to acquire companies because we are outbid, or such increased competition may cause us to pay a higher price than we would otherwise pay in a less competitive environment. Increased competition from both strategic and financial buyers could limit our ability to grow by acquisitions or make our cost of acquisitions higher and therefore decrease our profitability. If we fail to compete effectively with other hospitals, clinics and healthcare providers, our net operating revenues and profitability may decline. The healthcare business is highly competitive, and we compete with other hospitals, rehabilitation clinics and other healthcare providers for patients. If we are unable to compete effectively in the specialty hospital and outpatient rehabilitation businesses, our net operating revenues and profitability may decline. Many of our specialty hospitals operate in geographic areas where we compete with at least one other - 28 - Table of Contents hospital that provides similar services. Our outpatient rehabilitation clinics face competition from a variety of local and national outpatient rehabilitation providers. Other outpatient rehabilitation clinics in markets we serve may have greater name recognition and longer operating histories than our clinics. The managers of these clinics may also have stronger relationships with physicians in their communities, which could give them a competitive advantage for patient referrals. Our business operations could be significantly disrupted if we lose key members of our management team. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior officers and key employees, both individually and as a group. Our future performance will be substantially dependent in particular on our ability to retain and motivate four key employees, Rocco A. Ortenzio, Robert A. Ortenzio, Patricia A. Rice and Martin F. Jackson. We currently have an employment agreement in place with each of Messrs. Rocco and Robert Ortenzio and Ms. Rice and a change in control agreement with Mr. Jackson. Each of these individuals also has a significant equity ownership in Holdings. We have no reason to believe that we will lose the services of any of these individuals in the foreseeable future; however, we currently have no effective replacement for any of these individuals, due to their experience, reputation in the industry and special role in our operations. The loss of the services of any of these individuals would disrupt significant aspects of our business, could prevent us from successfully executing our business strategy and could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Significant legal actions as well as the cost and possible lack of available insurance could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities. In recent years, physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers have become subject to an increasing number of legal actions alleging malpractice, product liability or related legal theories. Many of these actions involve large claims and significant defense costs. We are also subject to lawsuits under federal and state whistleblower statutes designed to combat fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry. These whistleblower lawsuits are not covered by insurance and can involve significant monetary damages and award bounties to private plaintiffs who successfully bring the suits. We maintain professional malpractice liability insurance and general liability insurance coverages under a combination of policies with a total annual aggregate limit of $30 million. Our insurance for the professional liability coverage is written on a “claims-made” basis and our commercial general liability coverage is maintained on an “occurrence” basis. These coverages are generally subject to a self-insured retention of $2 million per medical incident for professional liability claims and $2 million per occurrence for general liability claims. In recent years, many insurance underwriters have become more selective in the insurance limits and types of coverage they will provide as a result of rising settlement costs. In some instances, insurance underwriters will no longer underwrite risk in certain states that have a history of high medical malpractice awards. There can be no assurance that in the future, malpractice insurance will be available in certain states nor that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage at a reasonable price. Since our professional liability insurance is on a claims-made basis, any failure to obtain malpractice insurance in any state in the future would increase our exposure not only to claims arising in the future in such state but also to claims arising from injuries that may have already occurred but which had not been reported during the period in which we previously had insurance coverage in that state. In addition, our insurance coverage does not cover punitive damages and may not cover all claims against us. See “Business — Government Regulations — Other Healthcare Regulations” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Medical and Professional Malpractice Insurance.” - 29 - Table of Contents The interests of our principal stockholders may conflict with your interests. An investor group led by Welsh Carson and Thoma Cressey Bravo (“Thoma Cressey”) owns substantially all of the outstanding equity securities of Holdings. Welsh Carson controls a majority of the voting power of such outstanding equity securities and therefore ultimately controls all of our affairs and policies, including the election of our board of directors, the approval of certain actions such as amending our charter, commencing bankruptcy proceedings and taking certain corporate actions (including, without limitation, incurring debt, issuing stock, selling assets and engaging in mergers and acquisitions), and appointing members of our management. Welsh Carson’s interests in exercising control over our business may conflict with your interests. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 