Item 1A. Risk Factors This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed or implied in such forward-looking statements due to such risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed below in the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and elsewhere in this report. Risks Related to Our Business Raw materials that are key ingredients to our products are subject to fluctuations in availability and price that could adversely impact our business and financial results. The availability, size, quality and cost of raw materials for the production and packaging of our products, including nuts, potatoes, corn and corn products, cooking and vegetable oils, corrugate, resins and other commodities, are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions, governmental agricultural and energy programs, exchange rates for foreign currencies and consumer demand. In particular, the availability and cost of walnuts and other nuts are subject to supply contract renewals, crop size, quality, yield fluctuations, and changes in governmental regulation as well as other factors. Additionally, we rely on raw materials that come from regions that suffer from severe water scarcity or yearly fluctuations, such as California, and such conditions may affect the availability of raw materials not only in a particular season but also over time. We source walnuts primarily from growers with whom we have entered into walnut purchase agreements. To the extent contracted growers deliver less supply than we expected or we are unable to renew enough walnut purchase agreements or enter into such agreements with new growers in any particular year, we may not have sufficient walnut supply under contract to satisfy our business requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our sales and our results of operations. To obtain sufficient walnut supply, which represents a significant portion of our cost of goods sold, we may be required to purchase walnuts from third parties at substantially higher prices or forgo sales to some market segments, which would reduce our profitability. If we forgo sales to such market segments, we may lose customers and may not be able to replace them later. Given our fixed costs from our manufacturing facilities, if we have a lower supply of walnuts or other raw materials, our unit costs will increase and our gross margin will decline. We make estimates of the price we will pay for walnuts to growers under contract starting in the first quarter of our fiscal year and, pursuant to our accounting policies, finalize the price to be paid to growers by the end of the fiscal year. The selling price to customers for walnuts fluctuates throughout the year depending on market forces. To the extent that we underestimate the price to be paid for walnuts and enter into contracts with our customers for products including walnuts at prices prevailing at the market at that time and based on walnut cost estimates that ultimately prove to be below the final price we determine to pay to growers, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Each year some of our walnut supply agreements are up for renewal, and competition among walnut handlers makes renewal with us uncertain. Disruption in our walnut supply and inability to secure walnuts cost effectively may adversely impact our business and our financial results. Our potato chip products are dependent on suppliers providing us with an adequate supply of quality potatoes on a timely basis. The failure of our suppliers to meet our specifications, quality standards or delivery schedules could have an adverse effect on our potato chip operations. In particular, a sudden scarcity, substantial price increase, quality issues or unavailability of ingredients could adversely affect our operating results. There can be no assurance that alternative ingredients would be available when needed on commercially attractive terms, if at all. In addition, high commodity prices could lead to unexpected costs and price increases of our products which might dampen growth of consumer demand for our products. If we are unable to increase productivity to offset these increased costs or increase our prices, this could substantially harm our business and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Continuing litigation between the SEC and our former CFO may require significant management time and attention, resulting in significant legal expenses, and could cause our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows to suffer. The unfavorable resolution of one or more matters could adversely impact Diamond. On December 14, 2011, we received a formal order of investigation from the Division of Enforcement of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) regarding matters associated with the accounting for payments to walnut growers that resulted in the restatement of fiscal 2010 and 2011 financial results. On January 9, 2014, the SEC authorized a settlement, pursuant to which, and without admitting or denying the allegations in the SEC’s complaint, we agreed to pay $5 million to resolve the matter. The U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California approved the settlement on January 10, 2014 and entered judgment on January 21, 2014. The SEC also entered into a settlement with our former CEO, but remains in litigation with our former CFO. Subject to certain limitations, we are obligated to indemnify our current and former directors, officers and employees, including our former CFO, in connection with the ongoing SEC litigation and any future government inquiries, investigations or actions. These matters have required us to expend significant management time, incur legal and other expenses and will require us to continue to do so. We have exhausted available coverage under applicable insurance policies, and therefore we would need to pay for future expenses related to these matters ourselves, including in connection with the pending litigation between the SEC and our former CFO. Additionally, an adverse judgment against our former CFO could result in claims by our insurance carriers to recover sums previously paid in defense of various related lawsuits and investigative matters. Such claims, if asserted and successful, may have a material effect on our financial condition, business, results of operations and cash flow. If we are unable to compete effectively in the markets in which we operate, our sales and profitability would be negatively affected. In general our markets are highly competitive and are based on product quality, price, brand recognition and loyalty. As a result, there are ongoing competitive product and pricing pressures in the markets in which we operate, as well as challenges in establishing and maintaining profit margins. Our products compete against food and snack products sold by many regional and national companies, some of which are substantially larger and have greater resources than we have. The greater scale and resources that may be available to our competitors could provide them with the ability to lower prices or increase their promotional or marketing spending to compete more effectively. To address these challenges, we must be able to successfully respond to competitive factors, including pricing, promotional incentives and trade terms. We may need to reduce our prices or increase promotional incentives in response to competition or to grow or maintain our market share. If we decide to reduce or eliminate promotional incentives to improve our profitability, we may not be able to compete effectively and we may lose distribution and market share, which could also lead to a decline in revenue. Competition and customer pressures may restrict our ability to increase prices in response to commodity or other cost increases. We may also need to increase spending on marketing, advertising and new product innovation to maintain or increase our market share. If we are unable to compete effectively, we could be unable to increase the breadth of the distribution of our products or lose customers or distribution of products, which could have an adverse impact on our sales and profitability. In addition, if we are required to maintain high levels of promotional incentives or trade terms with respect to particular product lines, our margins and profitability would be adversely effected. If the parties we depend upon for raw material supplies do not perform adequately, our ability to manufacture our products may be impaired, which could harm our business and results of operations. We rely on third-party suppliers for the raw materials we use to manufacture our products, and our ability to manufacture our products depends on receiving adequate supplies on a timely basis, which may be difficult or uneconomical to procure. If we do not maintain good relationships with suppliers that are important to us or are unable to identify a replacement supplier or develop our own sourcing capabilities, our ability to manufacture our 9 Table of Contents products may be harmed, which would result in interruptions in our business. In addition, even if we are able to find replacement suppliers when needed, we may not be able to enter into agreements with them on favorable terms and conditions, which could increase our costs of production. The occurrence of any of these risks could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may be required to conduct product recalls, potentially triggering concerns with the safety and quality of our products, which could cause consumers to avoid our products and reduce our sales and net income. The sale of food products for human consumption involves risk of injury to consumers. We face risks associated with product recalls and liability claims if our products become adulterated, mislabeled or misbranded, or cause injury, illness, or death. Our products may be subject to product tampering and to contamination and spoilage risks, such as mold, bacteria, insects and other pests, shell fragments, cross-contamination and off-flavor contamination. If any of our products were to be tampered with, or otherwise tainted and we were unable to detect it prior to shipment, our products could be subject to a recall. Recalls might also be required due to usage of raw materials provided by third-party ingredient suppliers. Such suppliers are required to supply material free of contamination, but may, on occasion, identify issues after selling material to Diamond manufacturing locations. Our ability to sell products could be reduced if governmental agencies conclude that our products have been tampered with, or that certain pesticides, herbicides or other chemicals used by growers have left harmful residues on portions of the crop or that the crop has been contaminated by aflatoxin or other agents. A significant product recall could cause our products to be unavailable for a period of time and reduce our sales. Adverse publicity could result in a loss of consumer confidence in our products, damage to our reputation and also reduce our sales for an extended period. Product recalls and product liability claims could increase our expenses and have an adverse effect on demand for our products and, consequently, reduce our sales, net income and liquidity. Material weaknesses can exist in our system of internal control over financial reporting, which could have a material impact on our business. Our ability to implement our business plan and comply with regulations requires an effective planning and management process. We expect that we will need to improve existing operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and implement new ones, to manage our future business effectively. Any implementation delays, or disruption in the transition to new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to forecast sales, manage our supply chain, and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. Furthermore, we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting adequate to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In connection with the restatement of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended January 31, 2013, we determined that we had a material weakness as of July 31, 2013, namely that our controls over the evaluation and review of complex and non-routine transactions were not effective. In addition, we had determined that we had a material weakness as of July 31, 2013 relating to our controls over journal entries. As of July 31, 2014, the material weakness related to our controls over journal entries has been remediated. The material weakness related to the evaluation and review of complex and non-routine transactions, however, has not been remediated. Because the material weakness over the evaluation and review of complex and non-routine transactions has not been remediated, we have concluded that as of July 31, 2014, our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective. Until the evaluation and review of complex and non-routine transactions material weakness is fully remediated, it may be difficult for us to manage our business, our results of operations could be harmed, our ability to report results accurately and on time could be impaired, investors may lose faith in the reliability of our statements, and the price of our securities may be materially impacted. We cannot assure you whether, or when, the remaining control deficiency that has been identified as a material weakness will be fully remediated. 10 Table of Contents We do not expect that our internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. As a result, we cannot assure you that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. A material weakness means a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting exists such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the registrant’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements. Any such failure could adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding disclosure controls and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, cause us to incur unforeseen costs, negatively impact our results of operations, or cause the market price of our common stock and/or the notes to decline. Diamond and some of our current and former officers and directors remain parties to lawsuits arising out of or related to Diamond’s restatement of its fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2011 consolidated financial statements, primarily resulting from our accounting for payments to walnut growers related to fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2011, and could result in additional legal expenses and damages, and cause our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows to suffer. In fiscal 2012, putative shareholder derivative lawsuits were filed in the Superior Court for the State of California, San Francisco County, purportedly on behalf of Diamond and naming certain executive officers and the members of our board of directors as individual defendants. These lawsuits, which related principally to our accounting for certain payments to walnut growers in fiscal 2010 and 2011, were subsequently consolidated as In re Diamond Foods, Inc. Shareholder Derivative Litigation which purports to set forth claims for breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, abuse of control and gross mismanagement. Following mediation efforts, the parties agreed to terms of a proposed settlement and the court entered an order granting final approval of the settlement on August 19, 2013. On September 23, 2013, a Notice of Appeal from the order granting final approval was filed by a single stockholder. No date for this hearing on this appeal has been scheduled. In addition, the SEC currently is in litigation with Diamond’s former CFO with respect to claims arising from the same circumstances. Former executive officers and members of our board of directors as individual defendants have been the subject of government investigations and lawsuits. Under Delaware law, our bylaws and certain indemnification agreements, we may have an obligation to indemnify former officers and directors in relation to these matters. Insurance funds from our director and officer liability policies were used in connection with the settlements of the shareholder derivative litigation and securities class action litigation and as a result, we will be required to fund indemnity obligations from claims resulting from any claims remaining in this matter. For example, if the litigation between our former CFO and the SEC continues or appeals proceed in the shareholder derivative action, or our indemnity obligations could result in significant legal expenses or damages and cause our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow to suffer. Government regulations could increase our costs of production and our business could be adversely affected. As a food company, we are subject to extensive government regulation, including regulation of the manufacturing, importation, processing, product quality, packaging, storage, distribution and labeling of our 11 Table of Contents products. Furthermore, there may be changes in the legal and regulatory environment, and governmental entities or agencies in jurisdictions where we operate may impose new manufacturing, importation, processing, packaging, storage, distribution, labeling or other restrictions, which could increase our costs and affect our profitability. For example, various regulatory authorities and others have paid increasing attention to the effect on humans due to the consumption of acrylamide—a naturally-occurring chemical compound that is formed in the process of cooking many foods, including potato chips, and a potential carcinogen—and have imposed additional regulatory requirements. In the State of California, we are required to warn about the presence of acrylamide and other potential carcinogens in our products. In addition, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration is currently evaluating banning the use of partially hydrogenated oils in food, which some of our products contain. If consumer concerns about acrylamide or partially hydrogenated oils increase or these substances are regulated further or not allowed in food products, demand for affected products could decline and our revenues and business could be harmed. Our manufacturing operations are subject to various national, regional or state and local laws and regulations that require us to obtain licenses relating to customs, health and safety, building and land use and environmental protection. We are also subject to environmental regulations governing the discharge into the air, and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials. New or amended statutes and regulations, increased production at our existing facilities and our expansion into new operations and jurisdictions may require us to obtain new licenses and permits, and could require us to change our methods of operations, which could be costly. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as possible criminal sanctions, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business. A disruption at any of our production facilities would significantly decrease production, which could increase our cost of sales and reduce our net sales and income from operations. We process and package our products in several domestic and international facilities and also have co-manufacturing agreements and co-pack arrangements with third parties. A temporary or extended interruption in operations at any of our facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction or damage from fire, flood or earthquake, infrastructure failures such as power or water shortages, raw material shortage or any other reason, whether or not covered by insurance, could interrupt our manufacturing operations, disrupt communications with our customers and suppliers and cause us to lose sales and write off inventory. Any prolonged disruption in the operations of our facilities would have a significant negative impact on our ability to manufacture and package our products on our own and may cause us to seek additional third-party arrangements, thereby increasing production costs. These third parties may not be as efficient as we are and may not have the capabilities to process and package some of our products, which could adversely affect sales or operating income. Further, current and potential customers might not purchase our products if they perceive our lack of alternate manufacturing facilities to be a risk to their continuing source of products. Changes in the food industry, including changing dietary trends and consumer preferences and adverse publicity about Diamond and the health effects of consuming some products could reduce demand for our products. Consumer tastes can change rapidly as a result of many factors, including shifting consumer preferences, dietary trends and purchasing patterns. To address consumer preferences, we invest significant resources in research and development of new products. Dietary trends, such as the consumption of food in low carbohydrate content, have in the past, and may in the future, harm our sales. If we fail to anticipate, identify or react to consumer trends, or if new products we develop do not achieve acceptance by retailers or consumers, demand for our products could decline, which would in turn cause our revenue and profitability to be lower. In addition, some of our products contain sodium, preservatives and other ingredients, the health effects of which are the subject of increasing public scrutiny, including the suggestion that excessive consumption of these ingredients can lead to a variety of adverse health effects. In the United States and other countries, there is increasing consumer awareness of health risks, including obesity, associated with consumption of these ingredients, as well as increased consumer litigation based on alleged adverse health impacts of consumption of 12 Table of Contents various food products. A continuing global focus on health and wellness, including weight management, and increasing media attention to the role of food marketing, could adversely affect our sales or lead to stricter regulations and greater scrutiny of food marketing practices. For example, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration is currently evaluating banning the use of partially hydrogenated oils in food, which certain of our products contain. Additionally, we believe consumers are looking increasingly for all natural products. From time to time we have been subject to lawsuits challenging our product labeling practices, including with respect to natural claims, and may be sued for such practices in the future. Moreover, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine consumer confidence or customer relations, and reduce demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. Increased costs associated with product processing and transportation, such as water, electricity, natural gas and fuel costs, could increase our expenses and reduce our profitability. We require a substantial amount of energy and water to make our products. Transportation costs, including fuel and labor, also represent a significant portion of the cost of our products, because we use third party truck and rail companies to collect our raw materials and deliver our products to our distributors and customers. These costs fluctuate significantly over time due to factors that may be beyond our control, including increased fuel prices, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters, employee strikes and increased export and import restrictions. We may not be able to pass on increased costs of production or transportation to our customers. In addition, from time to time, transportation service providers have a backlog of shipping requests, which could impact our ability to ship products in a timely fashion. Increases in the cost of water, electricity, natural gas, fuel or labor and failure to ship products on time, could increase our costs of production and adversely affect our profitability. The loss of any major customer could decrease sales and adversely impact our net income. We depend on a few significant customers for a large proportion of our net sales. This concentration has become more pronounced with the trend toward consolidation in the retail grocery store industry. Sales to our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (which includes sales to both Sam’s Club and Wal-Mart), represented approximately 16%, 16% and 18% of our total net sales in fiscal 2014, 2013, and 2012 respectively. Sales to our second largest customer, Costco Wholesale Corporation, represented approximately 9%, 9%, and 12% of our total net sales in fiscal 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to successfully manage relationships with these customers, or any other significant customer. Further, there is a continuing trend towards retail trade consolidation, which can create significant cost and margin pressure on our business. The loss of any major customers, or any other significant customer, or a material decrease in their purchases from us, could result in decreased sales and adversely impact our net income. The consolidation of retail customers could adversely affect us. Retail customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, continue to consolidate, resulting in fewer customers on which we can rely for business. Consolidation also produces larger, more sophisticated retail customers that can resist price increases and demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs or specifically tailored products. In addition, larger retailers have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own retailer brands. Further retail consolidation and increasing retail power could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. If we need to compete with other manufacturers or with retailer brands on the basis of price, our business and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Our branded products face competition from private label products that at times may be sold at lower price points. The impact of price gaps between our products and private label products may result in share erosion and 13 Table of Contents harm our business. A number of our competitors have broader product lines, substantially greater financial and other resources and/or lower fixed costs than we have. Our competitors may succeed in developing new or enhanced products that are more attractive to customers or consumers than ours. These competitors may also prove to be more successful in marketing and selling their products than we are; and may be better able to increase prices to reflect cost pressures. We may not compete successfully with these other companies or maintain or grow the distribution of our products. We cannot predict the pricing, commodity costs, or promotional activities of our competitors or whether they will have a negative effect on us. Many of our competitors engage in aggressive pricing and promotional activities. There are competitive pressures and other factors which could cause our products to lose market share, decline in sales, or result in significant price or margin erosion, which would have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our proprietary brands and packaging designs are essential to the value of our business, and the inability to protect, and costs associated with protecting, our intellectual property could harm the value of our brands and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our success depends significantly on our know-how and other intellectual property. We rely on a combination of trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, patents, copyrights and similar rights to protect our intellectual property. Our success also depends in large part on our continued ability to use existing trademarks and service marks in order to maintain and increase brand awareness and further develop our brand. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate. Third parties may misappropriate or infringe on our intellectual property or develop more efficient and advanced technologies. Our patents expire over time and third parties may use such previously patented technology to compete against us, and our third-party manufacturers and partners may also disclose our trade secrets. From time to time, we engage in litigation to protect our intellectual property, which could result in substantial costs as well as diversion of management attention. The occurrence of any of these risks could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We depend on our key personnel and if we lose the services of any of these individuals, or fail to attract and retain additional key personnel, we may not be able to implement our business strategy or operate our business effectively. Our future success largely depends on the contributions of our senior management team. We believe that these individuals’ expertise and knowledge about our industry, their respective fields and their relationships with other individuals in our industry are critical factors to our continued growth and success. We do not carry key person insurance. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management team and the failure to hire and retain qualified management and other key personnel could have an adverse effect on our business and prospects. Our success also depends upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified sales, marketing and other personnel. Economic downturns may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions may negatively affect our business and financial results. Poor economic conditions could negatively impact consumer demand for our products, the mix of our products’ sales, our ability to collect accounts receivable on a timely basis, the ability of suppliers to provide the materials required in our operations, and our ability to obtain financing or to otherwise access the capital markets. The occurrence of any of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The acquisition or divestiture of product lines or businesses could pose risks to our business and the market price of our common stock. We may review acquisition prospects that we believe could complement our existing business. There is no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, negotiating or consummating any future acquisitions. Any such future acquisitions could result in accounting charges, potentially dilutive issuances of stock and increased 14 Table of Contents debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could have a material effect on our business and the market price of our common stock. Acquisitions entail many financial, managerial and operational risks, including difficulties integrating the acquired operations, effective and immediate implementation of internal control over financial reporting, diversion of management attention during the negotiation and integration phases, uncertainty entering markets in which we have limited prior experience, and potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. We may be unable to integrate product lines or businesses that we acquire, which could have a material effect on our business and on the market price of our common stock. We may evaluate the various components of our portfolio of businesses and may, as a result, explore divesting such products or businesses. Divestitures have inherent risks, including possible delays in closing transactions (including potential difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals), the risk of lower-than-expected sales proceeds for the divested businesses, unexpected costs associated with the separation of the business to be sold from our integrated information technology systems and other operating systems and potential post-closing claims for indemnification. In addition, adverse economic or market conditions may result in fewer potential bidders and unsuccessful divestiture efforts. Transaction costs may be high, and expected cost savings, which are offset by revenue losses from divested businesses, may be difficult to achieve, and we may experience varying success in reducing costs or transferring liabilities previously associated with the divested businesses. In addition, acquisitions or divestitures may result in litigation that can be expensive and divert management’s attention and resources from our core business. Our business and operations could be negatively impacted if we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations. The success of our business depends substantially upon our ability to maintain satisfactory relations with our employees. Our production workforce in one of our facilities is covered by a collective bargaining agreement which expires in March 2015. Strikes or work stoppages and interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew this agreement on satisfactory terms. If a work stoppage or slow down were to occur, it could adversely affect our business and disrupt our operations. The terms and conditions of existing or renegotiated agreements also could increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to our business. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by the political and economic conditions of the countries in which we conduct business and other factors related to our international operations. We conduct a substantial amount of business with vendors and customers located outside the United States. During fiscal 2014, fiscal 2013, and fiscal 2012, sales outside the United States, primarily in the United Kingdom, Canada, South Korea, Japan, Germany, Netherlands, Turkey, China and Spain accounted for approximately 25%, 24% and 23% of our net sales, respectively. Many factors relating to our international operations and to particular countries in which we operate could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These factors include: • negative economic developments in economies around the world and the instability of governments, including the threat of war, terrorist attacks, epidemic or civil unrest; • pandemics, such as the flu, which may adversely affect our workforce as well as our local suppliers and customers; • earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or other major disasters that may limit the supply of nuts or other products that we purchase abroad; • tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements imposed by governments; • foreign currency exchange and transfer restrictions; • increased costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation; • differing labor standards; 15 Table of Contents • differing levels of protection of intellectual property; • difficulties and costs associated with complying with U.S. laws and regulations applicable to entities with overseas operations; • the threat that our operations or property could be subject to nationalization and expropriation; • varying regulatory, tax, judicial and administrative practices in the jurisdictions where we operate; • difficulties associated with operating under a wide variety of complex foreign laws, treaties and regulations; and • potentially burdensome taxation. Any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A material impairment in the carrying value of acquired goodwill, other intangible assets or tangible assets could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. A significant portion of our assets are goodwill and other intangible assets, the majority of which are not amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment. If the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current fair value, the asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value resulting in a non-cash charge to earnings. Events and conditions that could result in impairment include a sustained drop in the market price of our common stock, increased competition or loss of market share, product innovation or obsolescence, or product claims that result in a significant loss of sales or profitability over the product life. To the extent our market capitalization (increased by a reasonable control premium) results in a fair value of our common stock that is below our net book value, or if other indicators of potential impairment are present, then we will be required to take further steps to determine if an impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets has occurred and to calculate an impairment loss. If there are future changes in our stock price, or significant changes in the business climate or operating results of our reporting units, we may incur additional impairment charges related to the Kettle U.S. trade name or our other intangible assets and goodwill which would negatively impact our consolidated operating results and further reduce our stock price. At July 31, 2014, the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately $803.1 million, compared to total assets of approximately $1,192.8 million and total shareholders’ equity of approximately $283.8 million. At July 31, 2013, the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately $789.2 million, compared to total assets of approximately $1,172.3 million and total shareholders’ equity of approximately $170.0 million. Unauthorized access to confidential information and data on our information technology systems and security and data breaches could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. As part of our operations, we rely on our computer systems to manage inventory, process transactions, communicate with our suppliers and other third parties, and on continued and unimpeded access to secure network connections to use our computer systems. We have physical, technical and procedural safeguards in place that are designed to protect information and protect against security and data breaches as well as fraudulent transactions and other activities. Despite these safeguards and our other security processes and protections, we cannot be assured that all of our systems and processes are free from vulnerability to security breaches (through cyberattacks, which are evolving and becoming increasingly sophisticated, physical breach or other means) or inadvertent data disclosure by third parties or by us. A significant data security breach, including misappropriation of customer, distributor or employee confidential information, could cause us to incur significant costs, which may include potential cost of investigations, legal, forensic and consulting fees and expenses, costs and diversion of management attention required for investigation, remediation and litigation, substantial repair or replacement costs. We could also experience data losses that would impair our ability to 16 Table of Contents manage inventories or process transactions and the negative impact on our reputation and loss of confidence of our customers, distributors, suppliers and others, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to our Indebtedness We are highly leveraged and have substantial debt service requirements that could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our debt obligations, place us at a competitive disadvantage in our industry and limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry. We have incurred and will continue to have a substantial amount of indebtedness. Our high debt service requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate our business, and might limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay the principal of, or interest on, our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs, including working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts and other general corporate requirements. We may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. This high degree of leverage could have other important consequences, including: • making it more difficult to satisfy obligations with respect to the 7.000% Notes due 2019, (the “Notes”) and our other indebtedness, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, which could result in an event of default under the indenture governing the Notes or the agreements governing our other indebtedness; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because our secured credit facility is at variable rates of interest; • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors who are less highly leveraged and who therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from pursuing. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations, including our obligations under the Notes, will depend upon, among other things, our future operating performance and our ability to refinance indebtedness when necessary. Each of these factors is, to a large extent, dependent on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. If, in the future, we cannot generate sufficient cash from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations, we will need to refinance our debt, obtain additional financing, issue additional equity or sell assets. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow or that we will be able to obtain funding sufficient to satisfy our debt service requirements. Despite current indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt, including secured debt. This could further increase the risks associated with our significant indebtedness. We may be able to incur additional substantial indebtedness in the future. Although the terms of the agreements governing our existing indebtedness, the terms of our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility and our senior secured term loan facility and the indenture governing the Notes contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. The incurrence of additional indebtedness could make it more likely that we will experience some or all of the risks associated with substantial indebtedness. 17 Table of Contents Our other debt agreements contain restrictions that may limit our flexibility in operating our business. The indenture governing our debt arrangements contain various covenants that may limit our ability or the ability of our domestic subsidiaries to engage in specified types of transactions that may be in our long-term best interests. These covenants limit our ability, among other things to: • borrow money or guarantee debt; • create liens; • pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase stock; • make specified types of investments and acquisitions; • enter into or permit to exist contractual limits on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; and • sell assets or merge with other companies. These covenants limit our operational flexibility and could prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities as they arise. A breach of any of these covenants or other provisions in our debt agreements could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in such debt becoming immediately due and payable. This, in turn, could cause our other debt to become due and payable as a result of cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions contained in the agreements governing such other debt. In the event that some or all of our debt is accelerated and becomes immediately due and payable, we may not have the funds to repay, or the ability to refinance, such debt. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock is volatile and may result in investors selling shares of our common stock at a loss. The trading price of our common stock is volatile and subject to fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; • changes in our revenues, earnings, prospects or recommendations of securities analysts who follow our stock or our industry; • publication of research reports about us or our industry by any securities analysts who follow our stock or our industry; • speculation in the press or investment community; • terrorist acts; • general market conditions, including economic factors unrelated to our performance; and • the results and outcome of ongoing litigation matters In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources from our core business. We issued a substantial number of shares in connection with our securities litigation settlement and pursuant to the exercise of an outstanding warrant issued to Oaktree, and the trading of these shares in the open market could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In connection with an agreement that we entered into to settle a private securities class action against us and two of our former officers, we agreed to pay a total of $11.0 million in cash and issue approximately 4.45 million 18 Table of Contents shares of our common stock to a settlement fund. On February 21, 2014, we issued the 4.45 million shares to a settlement fund. The timing of the distribution of the shares to class members has not yet been determined, and we have the ability to privately place, or conduct a public offering of, the shares or substitute shares with the consent of the lead plaintiff and its counsel prior to distribution of the shares in the settlement fund. In that event, the settlement fund would include the proceeds of the offering in lieu of the settlement shares. Any such distribution of shares, when and if it occurs, may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. In addition, on February 19, 2014 Oaktree exercised a warrant to purchase 4,420,859 million shares of our common stock. As a result of the warrant exercise, the volatility in the trading price of our common stock may increase if and when Oaktree decides to sell shares. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from executing our strategy. The timing and amount of our working capital and capital expenditure requirements may vary significantly as a result of many factors, including: • market acceptance of our products; • the need to make large capital expenditures to support and expand production capacity; • the existence of opportunities for expansion; and • access to and availability of sufficient management, technical, marketing and financial personnel. If our capital resources are not sufficient to satisfy our liquidity needs, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain other debt financing. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional debt would result in increased expenses and could result in covenants that would restrict our operations. With the exception of the secured credit facility, we have not made arrangements to obtain additional financing. We may not be able to obtain additional financing, if required, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan and will issue one preferred stock purchase right with each share of our common stock that we issue. Each right will entitle the holder to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of our Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock. Under certain circumstances, if a person or group acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock, holders of the rights (other than the person or group triggering their exercise) will be able to purchase, in exchange for the $60.00 exercise price, shares of our common stock or of any company into which we are merged having a value of $120.00. The rights expire in March 2015 unless extended by our board of directors. Because the rights may substantially dilute the stock ownership of a person or group attempting to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors, our rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us (or a significant percentage of our outstanding capital stock) without first negotiating with our board of directors regarding such acquisition. In addition, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock (of which 500,000 shares have been designated as Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock) and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock may be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Further, some provisions of our charter documents, including provisions establishing a classified board of directors, eliminating the ability of stockholders to take action by written consent and limiting the ability of stockholders to raise matters at a meeting of stockholders without giving advance notice, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or our management, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. Further, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General 19 Table of Contents Corporation Law, which will prohibit an “interested stockholder” from engaging in a “business combination” with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, even if such combination is favored by a majority of stockholders, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. All of the foregoing could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or management. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 