Item 1A. Risk Factors. The factors described below are the principal risks that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Other factors may exist that we do not consider significant based on information that is currently available. In addition, new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect us. RISKS RELATED TO THE RAILCAR INDUSTRY We operate in a highly cyclical industry, and our industry and markets are influenced by factors that are beyond our control, including U.S. economic conditions. Such factors could adversely affect demand for our railcar offerings. Historically, the North American railcar market has been highly cyclical and we expect it to continue to be highly cyclical. During the most recent industry cycle, industry-wide railcar deliveries declined from a peak of 75,704 in 1998 to a low of 17,736 railcars in 2002. During this period, our railcar production declined from approximately 9,000 railcars in 1998 to 4,067 railcars in 2002. In 2005 and 2006, industry-wide railcar deliveries grew to 68,612 and 74,729, respectively, and our railcar production increased to 13,031 and 18,764 railcars, respectively. Our industry and the markets for which we supply railcars are influenced by factors that are beyond our control, including U.S. economic conditions. Downturns in economic conditions could result in lower sales volumes, lower prices for railcars and a loss of profits. The cyclicality of the markets in which we operate may adversely affect our operating results and cash flow. In addition, fluctuations in the demand for our railcars may cause comparisons of our sales and operating results between different fiscal years to be less meaningful as indicators of our future performance. The current high cost of the raw materials that we use to manufacture railcars, especially aluminum and steel, and delivery delays associated with these raw materials may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The production of railcars and our operations require substantial amounts of aluminum and steel. The cost of aluminum, steel and all other materials (including scrap metal) used in the production of our railcars represents a significant majority of our direct manufacturing costs. Our business is subject to the risk of price increases and periodic delays in the delivery of aluminum, steel and other materials, all of which are beyond our control. The prices for steel and aluminum, the primary raw material inputs of our railcars, increased in 2004 and have continued to increase in 2005 and 2006 as a result of strong demand, limited availability of production inputs for steel and aluminum, including scrap metal, industry consolidation and import trade barriers. In addition, the price and availability of other railcar components that are made of steel have been adversely affected by the increased cost and limited availability of steel. Any fluctuations in the price or availability of aluminum or steel, or any other material used in the production of our railcars, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, if any of our suppliers were unable to continue its business or were to seek bankruptcy relief, the availability or price of the materials we use could be adversely affected. Deliveries of our materials may also fluctuate depending on supply and demand for the material or governmental regulation relating to the material, including regulation relating to the importation of the material. Substantially all of our customer contracts as of December 31, 2006 allow for variable pricing to protect us against future changes in the cost of raw materials. However, when material prices increase rapidly or to levels significantly higher than normal, we may not be able to pass price increases through to our customers in future contracts, which could adversely affect our operating margins and cash flows. Even if we are able to increase prices, any such price increases may reduce demand for our railcars. In addition, in the future, our customers may not be willing to accept contractual terms that provide for variable pricing and our competitors, in an effort to gain market share or otherwise, may agree to railcar supply arrangements that do not provide for variable pricing. As a result, we may lose railcar orders or we may be required to agree to supply railcars without variable pricing provisions or be subject to less favorable contract terms. 10 Table of Contents We depend upon a small number of customers that represent a large percentage of our sales. The loss of any single customer, or a reduction in sales to any such customer, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since railcars are typically sold pursuant to large, periodic orders, a limited number of customers typically represent a significant percentage of our railcar sales in any given year. Over the last five years, our top five customers in each year based on sales represented, in the aggregate, approximately 52% of our total sales for the five-year period. In 2006, sales to our top three customers accounted for approximately 12%, 11% and 9%, respectively, of our total sales. In 2005, sales to our top three customers accounted for approximately 16%, 14% and 8%, respectively, of our total sales. Although we have long-standing relationships with many of our major customers, the loss of any significant portion of our sales to any major customer, the loss of a single major customer or a material adverse change in the financial condition of any one of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. The variable purchase patterns of our customers and the timing of completion, delivery and acceptance of customer orders may cause our sales and income from operations to vary substantially each quarter, which will result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly results. Most of our individual customers do not make purchases every year, since they do not need to replace or replenish their railcar fleets on a yearly basis. Many of our customers place orders for products on an as-needed basis, sometimes only once every few years. As a result, the order levels for railcars, the mix of railcar types ordered and the railcars ordered by any particular customer have varied significantly from quarterly period to quarterly period in the past and may continue to vary significantly in the future. Therefore, our results of operations in any particular quarterly period may be significantly affected by the number of railcars ordered and delivered and product mix of railcars ordered in any given quarterly period. Additionally, because we record the sale of a railcar at the time we complete production, the railcar is accepted by the customer following inspection, the risk for any damage or loss with respect to the railcar passes to the customer and title to the railcar transfers to the customer, and not when the order is taken, the timing of completion, delivery and acceptance of significant customer orders will have a considerable effect on fluctuations in our quarterly results. As a result of these quarterly fluctuations, we believe that comparisons of our sales and operating results between quarterly periods may not be meaningful and, as such, these comparisons should not be relied upon as indicators of our future performance. Limitations on the supply of wheels and other railcar components could adversely affect our business because they may limit the number of railcars we can manufacture. We rely upon third-party suppliers for wheels and other components for our railcars. In particular, we purchase, and we believe most of our competitors purchase, a substantial percentage of wheels and other railcar components from subsidiaries of Amsted Industries Inc. For the year ended December 31, 2004, due to a shortage of wheels and other railcar components from Amsted Industries, our deliveries were limited to 7,484 railcars, even though we had orders and production capacity to manufacture more railcars. The limited supply of wheels and other railcar components did not impact our deliveries for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006. While the availability of railcar components has continued to improve during 2006, the railcar industry continues to be adversely impacted by shortages of wheels and other components as a result of reorganization and consolidation of domestic suppliers, increased demand for new railcars and railroad maintenance requirements. Amsted Industries and other suppliers of railcar components may be unable to meet the short-term or longer-term wheel and other railcar components supply demand of our industry. In the event that Amsted Industries or our other suppliers of railcar components were to stop or reduce the production of wheels or the other railcar components that we use, go out of business, refuse to continue their business relationships with us or become subject to work stoppages, our business would be disrupted. We have in the past experienced challenges sourcing these railcar components to meet our increasing production. Our ability to increase our railcar production to expand our business and/or meet any increase in demand, with new or additional manufacturing capabilities, depends on our ability to obtain an adequate supply of these railcar components. While we believe that we could secure alternative sources, we may incur substantial delays and significant expense in doing so, the quality and reliability of these alternative sources for these components may not be the same and our operating results may be significantly affected. In an effort to secure a supply of wheels, we have developed foreign sources which require deposits on some occasions. In the event of a material adverse business condition, such deposits may be forfeited. In addition, if one of our competitors entered into a preferred supply arrangement with, or was otherwise favored by, Amsted Industries, we would be at a competitive disadvantage, which could negatively affect our operating results. Furthermore, alternative suppliers might charge significantly higher prices for wheels or other railcar components than we currently pay. Under such circumstances, the disruption to our business could have a material adverse impact on our customer relationships, financial condition and operating results. 11 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive industry and we may be unable to compete successfully against other railcar manufacturers. We operate in a competitive marketplace and face substantial competition from established competitors in the railcar industry in North America. We have four principal competitors that primarily manufacture railcars for third-party customers. Some of these manufacturers have greater financial and technological resources than us, and they may increase their participation in the railcar segments in which we compete. Railcar purchasers’ sensitivity to price and strong price competition within the industry have historically limited our ability to increase prices. In addition to price, competition is based on product performance and technological innovation, quality, reliability of delivery, customer service and other factors. In particular, technological innovation by any of our existing competitors, or new competitors entering any of the markets in which we do business, could put us at a competitive disadvantage. We may be unable to compete successfully against other railcar manufacturers or retain our market share in our established markets. Increased competition for the sales of our railcar products, particularly our coal-carrying railcars, could result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share, which could negatively affect our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations. Further consolidation of the railroad industry may adversely affect our business. Over the past 12 years, there has been a consolidation of railroad carriers operating in North America. Railroad carriers are large purchasers of railcars and represent a significant portion of our historical customer base. Future consolidation of railroad carriers may adversely affect our sales and reduce our income from operations because with fewer railroad carriers, each railroad carrier will have proportionately greater buying power and operating efficiency, which may intensify competition among railcar manufacturers to retain customer relationships with the consolidated railroad carriers and cause our prices to decline. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We rely significantly on the sales of our coal-carrying railcars. Future demand for coal could decrease, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Coal-carrying railcars are our primary railcar type, representing 95% of our sales in 2006 and 96% of the total railcars that we delivered in 2006. Fluctuations in the price of coal relative to other energy sources may cause utility companies, which are significant customers of our coal-carrying railcar lines, to select an alternative energy source to coal, thereby reducing the strength of the market for coal-carrying railcars. For example, if utility companies were to begin preferring oil instead of coal as an energy source, demand for our coal-carrying railcar lines would decrease and our operating results may be negatively affected. The U.S. federal and state governments may adopt new legislation and/or regulations, or judicial or administrative interpretations of existing laws and regulations, that materially adversely affect the coal industry and/or our customers’ ability to use coal or to continue to use coal at present rates. Such legislation or proposed legislation and/or regulations may include proposals for more stringent protections of the environment that would further regulate and tax the coal industry. This legislation could significantly reduce demand for coal, adversely affect the demand for our coal-carrying railcars and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely upon a single supplier to supply us with all of our cold-rolled center sills for our railcars, and any disruption of our relationship with this supplier could adversely affect our business. We rely upon a single supplier to manufacture all of our cold-rolled center sills for our railcars, which are based upon our proprietary and patented process. A center sill is the primary longitudinal structural component of a railcar which helps the railcar withstand the weight of the cargo and the force of being pulled during transport. Our center sill is formed into its final shape without heating by passing steel plate through a series of rollers. Substantially all of the railcars that we produced in 2006 were manufactured using this cold-rolled center sill. Although we have a good relationship with our supplier and have not experienced any significant delays, manufacturing shortages or failures to meet our quality requirements and production specifications in the past, our supplier could stop production of our cold-rolled center sills, go out of business, refuse to continue its business relationship with us or become subject to 12 Table of Contents work stoppages. While we believe that we could secure alternative manufacturing sources, our present supplier is currently the only manufacturer of our cold-rolled center sills for our railcars. We may incur substantial delays and significant expense in finding an alternative source, our results of operations may be significantly affected, and the quality and reliability of these alternative sources may not be the same. Moreover, alternative suppliers might charge significantly higher prices for our cold-rolled center sills than we currently pay. The prices for our cold-rolled center sills may also be impacted by the rising cost of steel and all other materials used in the production of our cold-rolled center sills. Under such circumstances, the disruption to our business may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Equipment failures, delays in deliveries or extensive damage to our facilities could lead to production or service curtailments or shutdowns. We manufacture our railcars at production facilities in Danville, Illinois, Johnstown, Pennsylvania and Roanoke, Virginia. An interruption in production capabilities at these facilities, as a result of equipment failure or other reasons, could reduce or prevent the production of our railcars. A halt of production at any of our manufacturing facilities could severely affect delivery times to our customers. Any significant delay in deliveries to our customers could result in the termination of contracts, cause us to lose future sales and negatively affect our reputation among our customers and in the railcar industry and our results of operations. Our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events, such as fires, explosions, floods or weather conditions. We may experience plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failures, delays in deliveries or extensive damage to any of our facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. An increase in health care costs could adversely affect our results of operations. The cost of health care benefits in the United States has increased significantly, leading to higher costs for us to provide health care benefits to our active and retired employees, and we expect these costs to increase in the future. If these costs continue to rise, our results of operations will be adversely affected. We are unable to limit our costs by changing or eliminating coverage under our employee benefit plans because a significant majority of our employee benefits are governed by union agreements. For example, as of December 31, 2006, our postretirement benefit obligation, primarily governed by the Johnstown settlement (as described elsewhere in this Item 1A.), was $52.9 million, all of which is unfunded. Although the Johnstown settlement limits our future liabilities for health care coverage for our retired unionized Johnstown employees, we will continue to fund 100% of the health care coverage costs of our active employees. If our costs under our employee benefit plans for active employees exceed our projections, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Our pension obligations are currently underfunded. We may have to make significant cash payments to our pension plans which would reduce the cash available for our business. As of December 31, 2006, our accumulated benefit obligation under our defined benefit pension plans exceeded the fair value of plan assets by $3.9 million. The underfunding was caused, in part, by fluctuations in the financial markets that have caused the valuation of the assets in our defined benefit pension plans to decrease. Further, additional benefit obligations were added to our existing defined benefit pension plans on November 15, 2004 as a result of the Johnstown settlement (as described elsewhere in this Item 1A.) and the reduction in our discount rate. We made contributions to our pension plans of $18.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2006. Management expects that any future obligations under our pension plans that are not currently funded will be funded from our future cash flow from operations. If our contributions to our pension plans are insufficient to fund the pension plans adequately to cover our future pension obligations, the performance of the assets in our pension plans does not meet our expectations or other actuarial assumptions are modified, our contributions to our pension plans could be materially higher than we expect, which would reduce the cash available for our business. We have unrecognized costs related to our defined benefit pension plans and postretirement plan. Significant changes in future employment levels may cause a plan curtailment, which may negatively impact our results from operations. We have qualified defined benefit pension plans and a postretirement plan covering substantially all of the employees of our subsidiaries JAC Operations, Inc., Johnstown America Corporation and JAIX Leasing Company. As of December 31, 2006, $42.5 million related to net actuarial loss and prior service cost for our defined benefit 13 Table of Contents pension plans and postretirement plan was recorded on our consolidated balance sheet in accumulated other comprehensive loss, but not yet recognized in earnings. A significant change in future employment levels could result in a decrease in the estimated remaining future service years for the employees covered by the plans. Such decrease in the estimated remaining future service years could result in a plan curtailment, which would cause us to immediately recognize a substantial portion of the net actuarial loss and prior service cost relating to these plans that have not yet been recognized in earnings. Such a plan curtailment could negatively impact our results from operations. The level of our reported backlog may not necessarily indicate what our future sales will be and our actual sales may fall short of the estimated sales value attributed to our backlog. We define backlog as the sales value of products or services to which our customers have committed in writing to purchase from us which have not been recognized as sales. In this report on Form 10-K, we have disclosed our backlog, or the number of railcars for which we have purchase orders, in various periods and the estimated sales value (in dollars) that would be attributable to this backlog once the backlog is converted to actual sales. We consider backlog to be an indicator of future sales of railcars. However, our reported backlog may not be converted into sales in any particular period, if at all, and the actual sales (including any compensation for lost profits and reimbursement for costs) from such contracts may not equal our reported estimates of backlog value. For example, we rely on third-party suppliers for heavy castings, wheels and components for our railcars and if these third parties were to stop or reduce their supply of heavy castings, wheels and other components, our actual sales would fall short of the estimated sales value attributed to our backlog. Also, customer orders may be subject to cancellation, inspection rights and other customary industry terms, and delivery dates may be subject to delay, thereby extending the date on which we will deliver the associated railcars and realize revenues attributable to such railcar backlog. Furthermore, any contract included in our reported backlog that actually generates sales may not be profitable. Therefore, our current level of reported backlog may not necessarily represent the level of sales that we may generate in any future period. Our exclusive supplier agreement with TXU Generation Development Company may not result in additional backlog or future sales. In October 2006, we announced an exclusive supplier agreement with TXU Generation Development Company LLC to provide up to 7,650 aluminum coal-carrying railcars to be delivered in the second half of 2008 through 2009. TXU’s actual requirements for aluminum coal-carrying railcars may change at TXU’s discretion. In February 2007, TXU’s parent company, TXU Corp., announced a definitive merger agreement pursuant to which TXU will be acquired by a private investor group. Published reports have indicated that, if the transaction is consummated, TXU may not proceed with the construction of all of the coal-fired power plants that it was previously planning to build. As a result, TXU’s demand for coal-carrying railcars may decline significantly. As of December 31, 2006, no railcar orders from TXU have been entered into our backlog pursuant to this supplier agreement. We will enter specific railcar orders into our backlog as notice to proceed with production is received from TXU. However, there can be no assurance that we will enter any specific railcar orders into our backlog pursuant to this supplier agreement. Moreover, even if such railcar orders are entered into our backlog, this backlog may not be converted into sales in the expected period, if at all. As a public company, we are required to comply with the reporting obligations of the Exchange Act and Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we fail to comply with the reporting obligations of the Exchange Act and Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or if we fail to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. As a public company, we are required to comply with the periodic reporting obligations of the Exchange Act, including preparing annual reports and quarterly reports. Our failure to prepare and disclose this information in a timely manner could subject us to penalties under federal securities laws, expose us to lawsuits and restrict our ability to access financing. In addition, we are required under applicable law and regulations to design and implement internal controls over financial reporting, and evaluate our existing internal controls with respect to the standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. During the course of our evaluation, we may identify areas requiring improvement and may be required to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. This could result in significant delays and costs to us and require us to divert substantial resources, including management time, from other activities. 14 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, any failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 on a timely basis could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. If we lose key personnel, our operations and ability to manage the day-to-day aspects of our business will be adversely affected. We believe our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and key employees, both individually and as a group. Our future performance will substantially depend on our ability to retain and motivate them. If we lose key personnel or are unable to recruit qualified personnel, our ability to manage the day-to-day aspects of our business will be adversely affected. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because our senior management team has many years of experience with our company and within the railcar industry and other manufacturing industries, it would be difficult to replace any of them without adversely affecting our business operations. Our future success will also depend in part upon our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. We do not currently maintain “key person” life insurance. Labor disputes could disrupt our operations and divert the attention of our management and may have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. As of December 31, 2006, we had collective bargaining agreements with unions representing approximately 59% of our total active labor force as of December 31, 2006. We have previously been involved in labor disputes with The United Steelworkers of America, or the USWA, the union that represents approximately 76% of our employees at the Johnstown facility. In January 2002, the USWA filed charges against our subsidiary alleging unfair labor practices in violation of the National Labor Relations Act, or the NLRA, in connection with our practices during our negotiation of a new collective bargaining agreement. In addition, our subsidiary was a defendant in two class action lawsuits filed by the USWA on behalf of individual plaintiffs alleging violations of the NLRA and ERISA in connection with certain medical and life insurance benefits and pension supplements that were discontinued with respect to certain retirees. On November 15, 2004, our subsidiary entered into a settlement agreement setting forth the terms of a new collective bargaining agreement with the USWA and resolving the NLRB charges filed against our subsidiary relating to the collective bargaining agreement, the class action lawsuits and certain other outstanding workplace grievances matters. Although the disputes involving the USWA did not result in strikes or other labor protests, any future labor disputes with the unions representing our employees could result in strikes or other labor protests which could disrupt our operations and divert the attention of our management from operating our business. If we were to experience a strike or work stoppage, it could be difficult for us to find a sufficient number of employees with the necessary skills to replace these employees. Any such labor disputes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Shortages of skilled labor may adversely impact our operations. We depend on skilled labor in the manufacture of railcars. Some of our facilities are located in areas where demand for skilled laborers often exceeds supply. Shortages of some types of skilled laborers may restrict our ability to increase production rates and could cause our labor costs to increase. Lack of acceptance of our new railcar offerings by our customers could adversely affect our business. Our strategy depends in part on our continued development and sale of new railcar designs and design changes to existing railcars to penetrate railcar markets in which we currently do not compete and to expand or maintain our market share in the railcar markets in which we currently compete. We have dedicated significant resources to the development, manufacturing and marketing of new railcar designs. We typically make decisions to develop and market new railcars and railcars with modified designs without firm indications of customer acceptance. New or modified railcar designs may require customers to alter their existing business methods or threaten to displace existing equipment in which our customers may have a substantial capital investment. Many railcar purchasers 15 Table of Contents prefer to maintain a standardized fleet of railcars and railcar purchasers with established railcar fleets are generally resistant to railcar design changes. Therefore, any new or modified railcar designs that we develop may not gain widespread acceptance in the marketplace and any such products may not be able to compete successfully with existing railcar designs or new railcar designs that may be introduced by our competitors. Our production of new railcar product lines may not be initially profitable and may result in financial losses. When we begin production of a new railcar product line, we usually anticipate that our initial costs of production will be higher due to initial labor and operating inefficiencies associated with new manufacturing processes. Due to pricing pressures in our industry, the pricing for the new railcars in customer contracts usually does not reflect the initial additional costs, and our costs of production may exceed the anticipated revenues until we are able to gain labor efficiencies. For example, in 2004 and 2005, we had losses of $8.9 million and $1.5 million, respectively, relating to our contract for the manufacture of box railcars, a type of railcar that we had not manufactured in the past. To the extent that the total costs of production significantly exceed our anticipated costs of production, we may be unable to gain any profit from our sale of the railcars or we may incur a loss. We may pursue acquisitions that involve inherent risks, any of which may cause us not to realize anticipated benefits. Our business strategy includes the potential acquisition of businesses and entering into joint ventures and other business combinations that we expect would complement and expand our existing products and services and the markets where we sell our products and services and improve our market position. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition or joint venture opportunities or complete any particular acquisition, combination, joint venture or other transaction on acceptable terms. We cannot predict the timing and success of our efforts to acquire any particular business and integrate the acquired business into our existing operations. Also, efforts to acquire other businesses or the implementation of other elements of this business strategy may divert managerial resources away from our business operations. In addition, our ability to engage in strategic acquisitions may depend on our ability to raise substantial capital and we may not be able to raise the funds necessary to implement our acquisition strategy on terms satisfactory to us, if at all. Our failure to identify suitable acquisition or joint venture opportunities may restrict our ability to grow our business. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate businesses that we acquire in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We might fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, which may result in our loss of market share, or third parties might assert that our intellectual property infringes on their intellectual property, which would be costly to defend and divert the attention of our management. The protection of our intellectual property is important to our business. We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, patents and trade secrets to protect our intellectual property. However, these protections might be inadequate. For example, we have patents for portions of our railcar designs that are important to our market leadership in the coal-carrying railcar segment. Our pending or future trademark, copyright and patent applications might not be approved or, if allowed, might not be sufficiently broad. Conversely, third parties might assert that our technologies or other intellectual property infringe on their proprietary rights. In either case, litigation may result, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our and our management team’s efforts. Regardless of whether we are ultimately successful in any litigation, such litigation could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations and the cost of complying with environmental requirements or any failure by us to comply with such requirements may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those governing air quality and the handling, disposal and remediation of waste products, fuel products and hazardous substances. Although we believe that we are in material compliance with all of the various regulations and permits applicable to our business, we may not at all times be in compliance with such requirements. The cost of complying with environmental requirements may also increase substantially in future years. If we violate or fail to comply with these regulations, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. In addition, these requirements are complex, change frequently and may become more stringent over time, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have in the past conducted investigation and remediation activities at properties that we own to address 16 Table of Contents historic contamination. However, there can be no assurance that these remediation activities have addressed all historic contamination. Environmental liabilities that we incur, including those relating to the off-site disposal of our wastes, if not covered by adequate insurance or indemnification, will increase our costs and have a negative impact on our profitability. Our warranties may expose us to potentially significant claims, which may damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We warrant the workmanship and materials of many of our manufactured new products under limited warranties, generally for periods of five years or less. Accordingly, we may be subject to a risk of product liability or warranty claims in the event that the failure of any of our products results in personal injury or death, or does not conform to our customers’ specifications. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance coverage, product liability claims, if made, may exceed our insurance coverage limits or insurance may not continue to be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. We have never experienced any material losses attributable to warranty claims, but it is possible for these types of warranty claims to result in costly product recalls, significant repair costs and damage to our reputation, all of which would adversely affect our results of operations. We use and rely significantly on a proprietary software system to manage our accounting and production systems, the failure of which may lead to data loss, significant business interruption and financial loss. We use and rely significantly on a proprietary software system that integrates our accounting and production systems, including production engineering, quality control, purchasing, inventory control and accounts receivable systems. In the future, we may discover significant errors or defects in this software system that we may not be able to correct. If this software system is disrupted or fails for any reason, or if our systems or facilities are infiltrated or damaged by unauthorized persons or a software virus, we could experience data loss, financial loss and significant business interruption. If that happens, we may be unable to meet production targets, our customers may terminate contracts, our reputation may be negatively affected, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. The agreement governing our revolving credit facility contains various covenants that, among other things, limit our discretion in operating our business and provide for certain minimum financial requirements. The agreement governing our revolving credit facility contains various covenants that, among other things, limit our management’s discretion by restricting our ability to incur additional debt, redeem our capital stock, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, pay dividends and make other distributions, make investments and other restricted payments and create liens. Our failure to comply with the financial covenants set forth above and other covenants under our revolving credit facility could lead to an event of default under the agreements governing any other indebtedness that we may have outstanding at the time, permitting the lenders to accelerate all borrowings under such agreements and to foreclose on any collateral. In addition, any such events may make it more difficult or costly for us to borrow additional funds in the future. To the extent we expand our sales of products and services internationally, we will increase our exposure to international economic and political risks. Conducting business outside the United States subjects us to various risks, including changing economic, legal and political conditions, work stoppages, exchange controls, currency fluctuations, terrorist activities directed at U.S. companies, armed conflicts and unexpected changes in the United States and the laws of other countries relating to tariffs, trade restrictions, transportation regulations, foreign investments and taxation. If we fail to obtain and maintain certifications of our railcars and railcar parts in the various countries where we may operate, we may be unable to market and sell our railcars in those countries. In addition, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, more stringent rules relating to labor or the environment, adverse tax consequences and price exchange controls could limit our operations and make the manufacture and distribution of our products internationally more difficult. Furthermore, any material changes in the quotas, regulations or duties on imports imposed by the U.S. government and agencies or on exports by non-U.S. governments or their respective agencies could affect our ability to export the railcars that we manufacture in the United States. The uncertainty of the legal environment could limit our ability to enforce our rights effectively. 17 Table of Contents The market price of our securities may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for stockholders to sell shares of our common stock when desired or at attractive prices. Since our initial public offering in April 2005 until February 28, 2007, the trading price of our common stock ranged from a low of $16.51 per share to a high of $78.34 per share. The price for our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, the cyclical nature of the railcar market, announcements of new products by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted stock options or other stock awards. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 