Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and financial condition can be impacted by a number of factors, including the risks described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of these risks could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent or anticipated results and could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. We are highly dependent on the automotive industry, and a prolonged contraction in automotive sales and production volumes could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and liquidity. The great majority of our customers are OEMs and their suppliers. Automotive sales and production declined substantially in the second half of 2008 and are not expected to recover significantly in the near future. This will have a continuing negative impact on our sales, liquidity and results of operations, as the demand for our products decreases as the volume of automotive production decreases. The negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations could have negative effects on us under our credit facilities by affecting our ability to comply with the financial ratio covenants contained in our credit facilities. An inability to comply would require us to seek waivers or amendments of such covenants. There is no guarantee that such waivers or amendments would be obtained and, even if they were obtained, we would likely incur additional costs. An inability to obtain any such waiver or 15 Table of Contents amendment could result in a breach and a possible event of default under our credit facilities, which could allow the lenders to discontinue lending, terminate any commitments they have to provide us with additional funds and/or declare amounts outstanding to be due and payable. There is no assurance that we would have sufficient funds to repay such obligations or that we could obtain alternative funding on terms acceptable to us. Our liquidity could also be adversely impacted if our suppliers reduced their normal trade credit terms as the result of any decline in our financial condition or if our customers extended their normal payment terms. If either of these situations occurred, we would need to rely on other sources of funding to cover the additional gap between the time we pay our suppliers and the time we receive corresponding payments from our customers. The financial conditions of OEMs, particularly the Detroit 3, may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The deteriorating financial condition of the OEMs, particularly the Detroit 3, could have adverse impacts on our financial condition in addition to those resulting directly from lower productions volumes (as described in the preceding risk factor). The Detroit 3 are undertaking, or may undertake, various forms of restructuring initiatives which may ultimately include, in certain cases, reorganization under bankruptcy laws. Chrysler and General Motors have sought funding and Ford has sought a line of credit from the U.S. government due to the significant financial difficulties they face. There is no assurance that the Detroit 3 will be able to meet the conditions imposed on them in connection with any such government assistance or that any such assistance will enable them to remain viable. The filing of bankruptcy proceedings by any of the Detroit 3, in addition to potentially impacting the ability of the filing company to continue to sell their products at sustainable levels and remain viable customers, could impact the collectability of our accounts receivable owing from the filing company. A prolonged contraction in automotive sales and production volumes and the financial conditions of OEMs could adversely affect the viability of our supply base. Our suppliers are subject to many of the same consequences that would impact us as a result of a prolonged contraction in automotive sales and production volumes. In addition, many of our suppliers also directly supply the Detroit 3, and the financial condition of the Detroit 3, particularly any bankruptcy filing, could impact the collectability of their accounts receivable. Depending on each supplier’s financial condition and access to capital, its viability could be threatened by such conditions or events which could impact its ability to meet its contractual commitments to us and consequently impact our ability to meet our own commitments to our customers. There is no assurance that we would be able to establish alternative sources of supply in time to meet such commitments and avoid potential penalties and damages that could result from such failure. Disruptions in the financial markets are adversely impacting the availability and cost of credit which could continue to negatively affect our business. Disruptions in the financial markets, including the bankruptcy, insolvency or restructuring of certain financial institutions, have adversely impacted the availability and cost of credit for many companies and consumers and had a negative impact on the global economy, consumer confidence, and the demand for automotive products. There is no assurance that government efforts to respond to these disruptions, or other circumstances, will restore consumer confidence, improve the liquidity of the financial markets or otherwise improve conditions in the automotive industry. Our substantial leverage could harm our business by limiting our available cash and our access to additional capital and, to the extent of our variable rate indebtedness, exposes us to interest rate risk. We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2008, our total consolidated indebtedness was $1,144.1 million. Our leverage increased upon the closing of our acquisition of MAPS, because we financed part of the acquisition with an incremental term loan under the Second Amendment to the Credit Agreement. 16 Table of Contents Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: • It may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes on favorable terms or at all; • A substantial portion of our cash flows from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and thus will not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities; • The debt service requirements of our other indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to make payments on the Senior Notes and Senior Subordinated Notes issued by Cooper-Standard Automotive Inc. in connection with the 2004 Acquisition (the “Notes”); • It may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that are less highly leveraged; • It may restrict our ability to make strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures; and • We may be more vulnerable than a less highly-leveraged company to a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, or we may be unable to carry out the desired amount of capital spending to support our growth. Our cash paid for interest for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $95.4 million, which excludes the amortization of $5.0 million of debt issuance costs. At December 31, 2008, we had $597.2 million of debt with floating interest rates, including $174.8 million managed by the use of interest rate swap contracts to convert the variable rate characteristic to fixed rate. If interest rates increase, assuming no principal repayments or use of financial derivatives, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash available for servicing our indebtedness, including the Notes, would decrease. After considering the effects of certain interest rate swap contracts we entered into during 2008, a 1% increase in the average interest rate of our variable rate indebtedness would increase future interest expense by approximately $4.2 million per year. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. The senior credit agreement and the indentures under which the Notes were issued contain a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness or issue redeemable preferred stock; • pay dividends and repurchase our capital stock; • issue stock of subsidiaries; • make certain investments; • enter into agreements that restrict dividends from subsidiaries; • transfer or sell assets; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; • incur liens; • engage in mergers, amalgamations, or consolidations; and • make capital expenditures. 17 Table of Contents In addition, under the senior credit agreement, we are required to satisfy specified financial ratios and tests. Our ability to comply with those provisions may be affected by events beyond our control, and may limit our ability to comply with those required ratios and tests. We may be unable to comply with the financial covenants in our senior credit agreement. The financial covenants in our senior credit agreement require us to achieve certain financial ratios based on levels of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and certain adjustments (EBITDA), as defined in the senior credit agreement. A failure to comply with these or other covenants in the senior credit facility could, if we were unable to obtain a waiver or another amendment of the covenant terms, cause an event of default that could cause our loans under the senior credit facility to become immediately due and payable. In addition, additional waivers or amendments could substantially increase the cost of borrowing. Increasing costs for or reduced availability of manufactured components and raw materials may adversely affect our profitability. The principal raw materials we purchase include fabricated metal-based components, synthetic rubber, carbon black, and natural rubber. Raw materials comprise the largest component of our costs, representing approximately 47% of our total costs during the year ended December 31, 2008. A significant increase in the price of these items could materially increase our operating costs and materially and adversely affect our profit margins because it is generally difficult to pass through these increased costs to our customers. For example, we have experienced significant price increases in our raw steel and steel-related components purchases as a result of increased global demand. While these increases fell off in the second half of 2008, continued volatility in the global market presents risk in forecasting cost. Because we purchase various types of raw materials and manufactured components, we may be materially and adversely affected by the failure of our suppliers of those materials to perform as expected. This non-performance may consist of delivery delays or failures caused by production issues or delivery of non-conforming products. The risk of non-performance may also result from the insolvency or bankruptcy of one or more of our suppliers. Our suppliers’ ability to supply products to us is also subject to a number of risks, including availability of raw materials, such as steel and natural rubber, destruction of their facilities, or work stoppages. In addition, our failure to promptly pay, or order sufficient quantities of inventory from our suppliers may increase the cost of products we purchase or may lead to suppliers refusing to sell products to us at all. Our efforts to protect against and to minimize these risks may not always be effective. We could be adversely affected if we are unable to continue to compete successfully in the highly competitive automotive parts industry. The automotive parts industry is highly competitive. We face numerous competitors in each of the product lines we serve. In general, there are three or more significant competitors for most of the products offered by our company and numerous smaller competitors. We also face increased competition for certain of our products from suppliers producing in lower-cost countries such as Korea and China, especially for certain lower-technology noise, vibration and harshness control products that have physical characteristics that make long-distance shipping more feasible and economical. We may not be able to continue to compete favorably and increased competition in our markets may have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to other risks associated with our non-U.S. operations. We have significant manufacturing operations outside the United States, including joint ventures and other alliances. Our operations are located in 18 countries and we export to several other countries. In 2008, approximately 74% of our net sales originated outside the United States. Risks are inherent in international operations, including: • exchange controls and currency restrictions; • currency fluctuations and devaluations; • changes in local economic conditions; 18 Table of Contents • changes in laws and regulations, including the imposition of embargos; • exposure to possible expropriation or other government actions; and • unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against American interests. These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. For example, we are faced with potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations and we have to design local solutions to manage credit risks of local customers and distributors. Also, the cost and complexity of streamlining operations in certain European countries is greater than would be the case in the United States, due primarily to labor laws in those countries that can make reducing employment levels more time-consuming and expensive than in the United States. Our flexibility in our foreign operations can also be somewhat limited by agreements we have entered into with our foreign joint venture partners. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing economic, social, and political conditions. We may not continue to succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business, and failure to do so could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our sales outside the United States expose us to currency risks. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, at a constant level of business, our reported international sales and earnings will be reduced because the local currency will translate into fewer U.S. dollars. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur a currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from the currency in which it receives revenues. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to manage our currency transaction and/or translation risks effectively, or volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our lean manufacturing and other cost savings plans may not be effective. Our operations strategy includes cutting costs by reducing product errors, inventory levels, operator motion, overproduction, and waiting while fostering the increased flow of material, information, and communication. The cost savings that we anticipate from these initiatives may not be achieved on schedule or at the level anticipated by management. If we are unable to realize these anticipated savings, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Moreover, the implementation of cost saving plans and facilities integration may disrupt our operations and performance. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability and warranty and recall claims that may be brought against us. We may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. Accordingly, we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. In addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of that product if the defect or the alleged defect relates to automotive safety. Our costs associated with providing product warranties could be material. Product liability, warranty, and recall costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Work stoppages or similar difficulties could disrupt our operations. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 46% of our employees were represented by unions, and approximately 10% of our employees were union represented employees located in the United States. It is possible that our workforce will become more unionized in the future. A work stoppage at one or more of our plants may have a material adverse effect on our business. Collective bargaining agreements at six of our North American facilities are due to expire in 2009, and we will be engaged in negotiations with unions at these facilities with respect to new contracts. Unionization activities could also increase our costs, which 19 Table of Contents could have an adverse effect on our profitability. We may be subject to work stoppages and may be, affected by other labor disputes. Additionally, a work stoppage at one or more of our customers or our customers’ suppliers could adversely affect our operations if an alternative source of supply were not readily available. Stoppages by employees of our customers also could result in reduced demand for our products and have material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends in part on our development of improved products, and our efforts may fail to meet the needs of customers on a timely or cost-effective basis. Our continued success depends on our ability to maintain advanced technological capabilities, machinery, and knowledge necessary to adapt to changing market demands as well as to develop and commercialize innovative products. We may not be able to develop new products as successfully as in the past or be able to keep pace with technological developments by our competitors and the industry generally. In addition, we may develop specific technologies and capabilities in anticipation of customers’ demands for new innovations and technologies. If such demand does not materialize, we may be unable to recover the costs incurred in such programs. If we are unable to recover these costs or if any such programs do not progress as expected, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to operate our company effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel. Our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies depends, in part, on the efforts of our key employees. The severe down turn in the auto industry may add additional pressure to our ability to retain key employees. In addition, our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key employees or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business or business prospects. Our Sponsors may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. Our Sponsors beneficially own approximately 98.6% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Additionally, we have entered into a stockholders’ agreement with the Sponsors that grants them certain preemptive rights to purchase additional equity and rights to designate members of our Board of Directors. As a result, our Sponsors have control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction and have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders regardless of whether or not other stockholders or noteholders believe that any such transactions are in their own best interests. Additionally, our Sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Our Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as our Sponsors continue to own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, even if such amount is less than 50%, they will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. Our intellectual property portfolio is subject to legal challenges. We have developed and actively pursue developing proprietary technology in the automotive industry and rely on intellectual property laws and a number of patents in many jurisdictions to protect such technology. However, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without authorization. If we had to litigate to protect these rights, any proceedings could be costly, and we may not prevail. We also face increasing exposure to the claims of others for infringement of intellectual property rights. We may have material intellectual property claims asserted against us in the future and could incur significant costs or losses related to such claims. 20 Table of Contents Our pension plans are currently underfunded and we may have to make cash payments to the plans, reducing the cash available for our business. We sponsor various pension plans worldwide that are underfunded and will require cash payments. Additionally, if the performance of the assets in our pension plans does not meet our expectations, or if other actuarial assumptions are modified, our required contributions may be higher than we expect. If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to fund our worldwide pension liability, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek additional capital, or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, our $251.8 million projected benefit obligation (“PBO”) for U.S. pension benefit obligations exceeded the fair value of the relevant plans’ assets, which totaled $162.6 million, by $89.2 million. Additionally, the international employees’ plans’ PBO exceeded plan assets by approximately $72.4 million at December 31, 2008. The PBO for other postretirement benefits (“OPEB”) was $68.5 million at December 31, 2008. Our estimated funding requirement for pensions and OPEB during 2009 is approximately $19.4 million. Net periodic pension costs for U.S. and international plans, including pension benefits and OPEB, were $19.1 million and $18.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008, respectively. See “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” (especially Notes 9 and 10). We are subject to a broad range of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to a broad range of federal, state, and local environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations in the United States and other countries, including those governing emissions to air, discharges to water, noise and odor emissions; the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment, and disposal of waste materials; the cleanup of contaminated properties; and human health and safety. We may incur substantial costs associated with hazardous substance contamination or exposure, including cleanup costs, fines, and civil or criminal sanctions, third party property or natural resource damage, or personal injury claims, or costs to upgrade or replace existing equipment, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws or non-compliance with environmental permits required at our locations. In addition, many of our current and former facilities are located on properties with long histories of industrial or commercial operations and some of these properties have been subject to certain environmental investigations and remediation activities. Because some environmental laws (such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act) can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup upon any of the current or former owners or operators, retroactively and regardless of fault, we could become liable for investigating or remediating contamination at these or other properties (including offsite locations). We may not always be in complete compliance with all applicable requirements of environmental law or regulation, and we may incur material costs or liabilities in connection with such requirements. In addition, new environmental requirements or changes to existing requirements, or in their enforcement, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We have made and will continue to make expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. While our costs to defend and settle claims arising under environmental laws in the past have not been material, such costs may be material in the future. For more information about our environmental compliance and potential environmental liabilities, see “Item 1. Business – Environmental.” If our acquisition strategy is not successful, we may not achieve our growth and profit objectives. We may selectively pursue complementary acquisitions in the future as part of our growth strategy. While we will evaluate business opportunities on a regular basis, we may not be successful in identifying any attractive acquisitions. We may not have, or be able to raise on acceptable terms, sufficient financial resources to make acquisitions. In addition, any acquisitions we make will be subject to all of the risks inherent in an acquisition strategy, including integrating financial and operational reporting systems; establishing satisfactory budgetary and other financial controls; funding increased capital needs and overhead expenses; obtaining management personnel required for expanded operations; and funding cash flow shortages that may occur if anticipated sales and revenues are not realized or are delayed, whether by general economic or market conditions or unforeseen internal difficulties. 21 Table of Contents Our amount of leverage creates significant risk. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek additional capital, or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations to attempt to meet our debt service and other obligations. The Senior Credit Facilities and the indentures under which the Senior Notes and the Senior Subordinated Notes were issued restrict our ability to use the proceeds from asset sales. We may not be able to consummate those asset sales to raise capital or sell assets at prices that we believe are fair and proceeds that we do receive may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Despite our current leverage, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks that we and our subsidiaries face. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Our revolving credit facilities provide commitments of up to $115.0 million, of which $30.1 million was available for future borrowings as of December 31, 2008. During the first quarter of 2009, we have drawn substantially all of the revolving credit facilities balance that was available as of December 31, 2008. Available Information The Company makes available free of charge on or through its Internet website its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 22 Table of Contents 