Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Such factors could have a significant impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. We believe the most significant of these risks and uncertainties are as follows: Our financial condition and growth depends upon the successful integration of our acquired businesses. We may not be able to efficiently and effectively integrate acquired operations, and thus may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from such acquisitions. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions that we have completed starting in January 2007 will depend in part upon whether we can integrate our businesses in an efficient and effective manner. Since January 2007, we have acquired, in chronological order, VTC, LLC and Vortech LLC, Comm Site of South Florida, Inc., Innovative Power Systems, Inc. and Quality Power Systems, Inc., Rubicon Integration, LLC and in January 2008, we acquired SMLB, Ltd. In the future, we may acquire additional businesses in accordance with our business strategy. The integration of our acquired businesses and any future businesses that we may acquire involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • demands on management related to the increase in our size after the acquisition; • the disruption of ongoing business and the diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of operations; • failure to fully achieve expected synergies and costs savings; • unanticipated impediments in the integration of departments, systems, including accounting systems, technologies, books and records and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards, controls, including internal control over financial reporting required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, procedures and policies; • loss of customers or the failure of customers to contract for incremental services that we expect them to contract; • failure to perform services that are contracted by customers during the integration period; • higher integration costs than anticipated; and • difficulties in the assimilation and retention of highly qualified, experienced employees, many of whom are geographically dispersed. Successful integration of these acquired businesses or operations will depend on our ability to manage these operations, realize opportunities for revenue growth presented by strengthened service offerings and expanded geographic market coverage, obtain better terms from our vendors due to increased buying power, and eliminate redundant and excess costs to fully realize the expected synergies. Because of difficulties in combining geographically distant operations and systems which may not be fully compatible, we may not be able to achieve the financial strength and growth we anticipate from the acquisitions. We cannot be certain that we will realize our anticipated benefits from our acquisitions, or that we will be able to efficiently and effectively integrate the acquired operations as planned. If we fail to integrate the acquired businesses and operations efficiently and effectively or fail to realize the benefits we anticipate, we would be likely to experience material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. 16 If the acquisitions’ benefits do not meet the expectations of financial or industry analysts, the market price of our common stock may decline. The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of our various acquisitions if: · we do not achieve the perceived benefits of each acquisition as rapidly as, or to the extent anticipated by, financial or industry analysts; or · the effect of the acquisitions on our financial results is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts. Accordingly, investors may experience a loss as a result of a decreasing stock price. The Vice-Chairmen and one member of our Board of Directors may have conflicts of interest that could hinder our ability to make acquisitions. One of our growth strategies is to make selective acquisitions of specialty engineering and information technology/networking consulting and system integration companies that focus on mission-critical facilities. The current Vice-Chairman of our Board of Directors, Mr. McMillen, is the president, chief executive officer and chairman of the board of Homeland Security Capital Corporation (“HSCC”). HSCC has announced that its intended strategic direction is “to focus on owning and operating small- and mid-sized growth businesses that provide homeland security solutions through innovative technologies to both the public and private sector and to drive growth through management, strategic guidance, capital and financial support, and government marketing expertise.” It is possible that HSCC could be interested in acquiring businesses that we would also be interested in acquiring and that these relationships could hinder our ability to carry out our acquisition strategy. Additionally, our Vice-Chairman of the Board, Mr.Weiss, Vice-Chairman of the Board, Mr. McMillen and our Director, Mr. Hutchinson, serve as the Co-Chairman of the Board, Co-Chairman of the Board, and Director, respectively, on the Board of Directors at Secure America Acquisition Corporation (Secure America), a blank check Company formed for the purpose of acquiring, or acquiring control of, through a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase or other similar business combination, one or more operating businesses in the homeland security industry. It is possible that Secure America could be interested in acquiring businesses that we would also be interested in acquiring and that these relationships could hinder our ability to carry out our acquisition strategy. Actual or potential conflicts of interest are likely to develop between us and Messrs. Rosato and Gallagher. Thomas P. Rosato and Gerard J. Gallagher, the selling members of TSS/Vortech, continue to own significant businesses other than TSS/Vortech that are not owned or controlled by us. We will have ongoing business relationships with certain of these businesses of the selling members. This will likely create actual or potential conflicts of interest between the selling members, who are executive officers and members of our Board of Directors and thus in a position to influence corporate decisions, and us. 17 We may not have sufficient financial resources to carry out our acquisition strategy; we may need to use our stock to fund acquisitions to a greater extent than we originally intended. In January 2007, we announced a common stock repurchase program. As a result of that program, through December 31, 2007 we had utilized $2,036,015 of cash to purchase 379,075 shares of our common stock at an average price of $5.37 per share. We retired 221,000 of the repurchased shares on June 13, 2007. The repurchase program was suspended during the third quarter of 2007. These stock repurchases reduced the amount of cash available to fund acquisitions. As a result, we may have to incur more debt, or issue more common stock or other equity securities, than would otherwise have been necessary in connection with acquisitions, and we may not have sufficient financial resources to carry out our acquisition strategy to the extent we had initially planned, especially in the current global economy and the credit market. If third parties bring claims against us or if acquired companies breached any of its representations, warranties or covenants set forth in the purchase agreements, we may not be adequately indemnified for any losses arising therefrom. Although the purchase agreement provides that Messrs. Rosato and Gallagher will indemnify us for losses arising from a breach of the representations, warranties and covenants by TSS/Vortech or Messrs. Rosato and Gallagher set forth in the purchase agreement, such indemnification is limited, in general terms, to an aggregate amount of $5 million and claims may be asserted against Messrs. Rosato and Gallagher only if a claim exceeds $8,000 and the aggregate amount of all claims exceeds $175,000. In addition, with some exceptions, the survival period for claims under the purchase agreement is limited to the 18-month period following the closing of the acquisition. We will be prevented from seeking indemnification for most claims above the aggregate threshold or arising after the applicable survival period. In connection with the Rubicon, Innovative, and SMLB acquisitions, we are indemnified for any losses arising from a breach of the representations, warranties, and covenants by the sellers through the right to reduce any future contingent consideration earned by the sellers; however, we may not be adequately indemnified for the full value of any loses arising therefrom. 18 As a result of our acquisitions, we have substantial amounts of goodwill and intangible assets, and changes in future business conditions could cause these assets to become impaired, requiring substantial write-downs that would adversely affect our operating results. Our acquisitions were accounted for as purchases and involved purchase prices well in excess of tangible asset values, resulting in the creation of a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. Since December 31, 2006, we completed the acquisitions of TSS/Vortech, Comm Site , Innovative, Rubicon, and SMLB and we plan to continue acquiring businesses if and when opportunities arise, further increasing our goodwill and purchased intangibles amount. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we do not amortize goodwill and intangible assets acquired in a purchase business combination that are determined to have indefinite useful lives, but instead review them annually (or more frequently if impairment indicators arise) for impairment. To the extent we determine that such an asset has been impaired, we will write-down its carrying value on our balance sheet and book an impairment charge in our statement of operations. In 2008, we conducted such analyses that resulted in impairment loss on goodwill of $20.6 million. Additionally, in an effort to rationalize our marketing effort and consolidate our product offerings under a single brand name Fortress International Group, Inc., we abandoned acquired trade names resulting in an impairment loss of approximately $5.4 million during the fourth quarter of 2008. We amortize intangible assets with estimable useful lives over their respective estimated useful lives to their estimated residual values, and also review them for impairment. If, as a result of acquisitions or otherwise, the amount of intangible assets being amortized increases, so will our depreciation and amortization charges in future periods. Recent global economic trends could adversely affect our business, liquidity and financial results. Recent global economic conditions, including disruption of financial markets, could adversely affect our business and results of operations, primarily, through limiting our access to credit and debt and equity financing and disrupting our clients’ businesses. The reduction in financial institutions’ willingness or ability to lend has increased the cost of capital and reduced the availability of credit. Although we currently believe that the financial institutions with whom we do business will be able to fulfill their commitments to us, there is no assurance that those institutions will be able to continue to do so, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, continuation or worsening of general market conditions in the United States or other national economies important to our businesses may adversely affect our clients’ level of spending, ability to obtain financing, and ability to make timely payments to us for our services, which could require us to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, negatively impact our days sales outstanding and adversely affect our results of operations. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers. We derive and believe that we will continue to derive in the near term, a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers. To the extent that any significant customer uses less of our services or terminates its relationship with us, our revenues could decline significantly, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our two and three largest customers accounted for approximately 31% and 36% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Most of our contracts may be canceled on short notice, so our revenue and potential profits are not guaranteed. Most of our contracts are cancelable on short notice by the customer either at its convenience or upon our default. If one of our customers terminates a contract at its convenience, then we typically are able to recover only costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to termination, which could prevent us from recognizing all of our potential revenue and profit from that contract. If one of our customers terminates the contract due to our default, we could be liable for excess costs incurred by the customer in re-procuring services from another source, as well as other costs. Many of our contracts, including our service agreements, are periodically open to public bid. We may not be the successful bidder on its existing contracts that are re-bid. We also provide an increasing portion of our services on a non-recurring, project-by-project basis. We could experience a reduction in our revenue, profitability and liquidity if: · our customers cancel a significant number of contracts; · we fails to win a significant number of its existing contracts upon re-bid; or · we complete the required work under a significant number of our non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects. 19 Our backlog varies and is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations and is, therefore, not guaranteed to be recognized as revenue. We cannot assure that the revenues attributed to uncompleted projects under contract will be realized or, if realized, will result in profits. Included in our backlog is the maximum amount of all uncompleted contracts and task order contracts, or a lesser amount if we do not reasonably expect to be issued task orders for the maximum amount of such contracts. We perform services only when purchase orders are issued under the associated contracts. The backlog amounts are estimates, subject to change or cancellation, and accordingly, the actual customer purchase orders to perform work may vary significantly in scope and amount from the backlog amounts. Accordingly, we cannot provide any assurance that we will in fact be awarded the maximum amount of such contracts or be awarded any amount at all. Our backlog as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 was approximately $63.1 million and $172.9 million, respectively. This significant decline in our backlog is attributable to the recent indication to us from our largest customer of its suspension of two projects totaling $144.9 million. The majority of our projects are accounted for on the percentage-of-completion method, and if actual results vary from the assumptions made in estimating percentage-of-completion, our revenue and income could be reduced. We generally recognize revenue on our projects on the percentage-of-completion method. Under the percentage-of-completion method, we record revenue as work on the contract progresses. The cumulative amount of revenue recorded on a contract at a specified point in time is that percentage of total estimated revenue that incurred costs to date bear to estimated total contract costs. The percentage-of-completion method therefore relies on estimates of total expected contract costs. Contract revenue and total cost estimates are reviewed and revised periodically as the work progresses. Adjustments are reflected in contract revenue in the fiscal period when such estimates are revised. Estimates are based on management’s reasonable assumptions and experience, but are only estimates. Variation between actual results and estimates on a large project or on a number of smaller projects could be material. We immediately recognize the full amount of the estimated loss on a contract when our estimates indicate such a loss. Any such loss would reduce our revenue and income. We submit change orders to our customers for work we perform beyond the scope of some of our contracts. If our customers do not approve these change orders, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. We typically submit change orders under some of our contracts for payment of work performed beyond the initial contractual requirements. The applicable customers may not approve or may contest these change orders and we cannot assure you that these claims will be approved in whole, in part or at all. If these claims are not approved, our net income and results of operations could be adversely impacted. We may not accurately estimate the costs associated with services provided under fixed-price contracts, which could impair our financial performance. A portion of our revenue is derived from fixed price contracts. Under these contracts, we set the price of our services and assume the risk that the costs associated with our performance may be greater than we anticipated. Our profitability is therefore dependent upon our ability to estimate accurately the costs associated with our services. These costs may be affected by a variety of factors, such as lower than anticipated productivity, conditions at the work sites differing materially from what was anticipated at the time we bid on the contract, and higher than expected costs of materials and labor. Certain agreements or projects could have lower margins than anticipated or losses if actual costs for contracts exceed our estimates, which could reduce our profitability and liquidity. Failure to properly manage projects may result in costs or claims. Our engagements often involve relatively large scale, highly complex projects. The quality of our performance on such projects depends in large part upon our ability to manage the customer relationship, to manage effectively the project and to deploy appropriate resources, including third-party contractors and our own personnel, in a timely manner. Any defects, errors or failure to meet customers’ expectations could result in claims for substantial damages against us. We currently maintain comprehensive general liability, umbrella, and professional liability insurance policies. We cannot be certain that the insurance coverage we carry to cover such claims will be adequate to protect us from the full impact of such claims. Moreover, in certain instances, we guarantee customers that we will complete a project by a scheduled date or that the project will achieve certain performance standards. If the project experiences a performance problem, we may not be able to recover the additional costs we will incur, which could exceed revenues realized from a project. Finally, if we underestimate the resources or time we need to complete a project with capped or fixed fees, our operating results could be seriously harmed. 20 We may choose, or be required, to pay our subcontractors even if our customers do not pay, or delay paying, us for the related services. We use subcontractors to perform portions of our services and to manage work flow. In some cases, we pay our subcontractors before our customers pay us for the related services. If we choose, or are required, to pay our subcontractors for work performed for customers who fail to pay, or delay paying us for the related work, we could experience a decrease in profitability and liquidity. We operate in a highly competitive industry, which could reduce our growth opportunities, revenue and operating results. The mission-critical IT industry in which we operate is highly competitive. We often compete with other IT consulting and integration companies, including several that are large domestic companies that may have financial, technical and marketing resources that exceed our own. Our competitors may develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are equal or superior in both price and quality to our services, and we may not be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position. Although our customers currently outsource a significant portion of these services to us and our competitors, we can offer no assurance that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource specialty contracting services to us in the future. The industries we serve have experienced and may continue to experience rapid technological, structural and competitive changes that could reduce the need for our services and adversely affect our revenues. The mission-critical IT industry is characterized by rapid technological change, intense competition and changing consumer and data center needs. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from customers in the mission-critical IT industry. New technologies, or upgrades to existing technologies by customers, could reduce the need for our services and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Improvements in existing technology may allow companies to improve their networks without physically upgrading them. Reduced demand for our services or a loss of a significant customer could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. 21 An reduction in spending due to the economic downturn could result in a decrease in demand for our services. If federal, state or local government or private enterprise spending on mission-critical related capital expenditures decreases, the demand for services like those provided by us would likely decline. This decrease could reduce our opportunity for growth, increase our marketing and sales costs, and reduce the prices we can charge for services, which could reduce our revenue and operating results. We may be unable to obtain sufficient bonding capacity to support certain service offerings. Some of our contracts require performance and payment bonds. Bonding capacity for construction projects has become increasingly difficult to obtain, and bonding companies are denying or restricting coverage to an increasing number of contractors. Companies that have been successful in renewing or obtaining coverage have sometimes been required to post additional collateral to secure the same amount of bonds which would reduce availability under any credit facility. We may not be able to maintain a sufficient level of bonding capacity in the future, which could preclude us from being able to bid for certain contracts and successfully contract with certain customers. In addition, even if we are able to successfully renew or obtain performance or payment bonds in the future, we may be required to post letters of credit in connection with the bonds. We may be unable to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel; the loss of any of our key executive officers may adversely affect our business. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled, knowledgeable, sophisticated and qualified managerial, professional and technical personnel. Our business involves the development of tailored solutions for customers, a process that relies heavily upon the expertise and services of employees. Accordingly, our employees are one of our most valuable resources. Competition for skilled personnel, especially those with security clearance, is intense in our industry. Recruiting and training these personnel require substantial resources. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could increase our costs of performing our contractual obligations, reduce our ability to efficiently satisfy our customers’ needs, limit our ability to win new business and constrain our future growth. Our business is managed by a small number of key executive officers, including Mr. Weiss, our Vice-Chairman, Mr. Rosato, our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Gallagher, our President and Chief Operating Officer and Mr. Dec, our Chief Financial Officer. The loss of any of these key executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business. A portion of our business depends upon obtaining and maintaining required security clearances, and our failure to do so could result in termination of certain of our contracts or cause us to be unable to bid or rebid on certain contracts. Some United States government projects require our employees to maintain various levels of security clearances, and we may be required to maintain certain facility security clearances complying with United States government requirements. Obtaining and maintaining security clearances for employees involve a lengthy process, and it is difficult to identify, recruit and retain employees who already hold security clearances. If our employees are unable to obtain or retain security clearances or if such employees who hold security clearances terminate their employment, the customer whose work requires cleared employees could terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon expiration. To the extent we are not able to engage employees with the required security clearances for a particular contract, we may not be able bid on or win new contracts, or effectively re-bid on expiring contracts, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, we expect that some of the contracts on which we will bid will require us to demonstrate our ability to obtain facility security clearances and perform work with employees who hold specified types of security clearances. A facility security clearance is an administrative determination that a particular facility is eligible for access to classified information or an award of a classified contract. Although contracts may be awarded prior to the issuance of a facility security clearance, in such cases the contractor is processed for facility security clearance at the appropriate level and must meet the eligibility requirements for access to classified information. A contractor or prospective contractor must meet certain eligibility requirements before it can be processed for facility security clearance. Our ability to obtain and maintain facility security clearances has a direct impact on our ability to compete for and perform United States government projects, the performance of which requires access to classified information. 22 Our failure to comply with the regulations of the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration and other state and local agencies that oversee safety compliance could reduce our revenue, profitability and liquidity. The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended, or OSHA, establishes certain employer responsibilities, including maintenance of a workplace free of recognized hazards likely to cause death or serious injury, compliance with standards promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and various record keeping, disclosure and procedural requirements. Various standards, including standards for notices of hazards, safety in excavation and demolition work, may apply to our operations. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in the ordinary course of our business in complying with OSHA and other state and local laws and regulations. Our quarterly revenue, operating results and profitability will vary. Our revenue, operating results and profitability may fluctuate significantly and unpredictably in the future. In particular, the changes in contract mix that is inherent to our business may significantly affect our results. Factors that may contribute to the variability of our revenue, operating results or profitability include: · Fluctuations in revenue earned on contracts; · Commencement, completion and termination of contracts, especially contracts relating to our major customers; · Declines in backlog that are not replaced; · Additions and departures of key personnel; · Strategic decisions by us and our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments and changes in business strategy; · General economic conditions; · Contract mix and the extent of subcontractor use; and · Any seasonality of our business. Therefore, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. Our quarterly operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which in turn may have an adverse affect on the market price of our common stock. If we are unable to engage appropriate subcontractors or if our subcontractors fail to perform their contractual obligations, our performance as a prime contractor and ability to obtain future business could be materially and adversely impacted. Our contract performance may involve the engagement of subcontracts to other companies upon which we rely to perform all or a portion of the work we are obligated to deliver to our customers. Our inability to find and engage appropriate subcontractors or a failure by one or more of our subcontractors to satisfactorily deliver on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies and/or perform the agreed-upon services may materially and adversely affect our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor. 23 In extreme cases, a subcontractor’s performance deficiency could result in the customer terminating the contract for default with us. A default termination could expose us to liability for excess costs of reprocurement by the customer and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and task orders. If we are unable to manage our growth, our business may be adversely affected. Sustaining our historical growth may place significant demands on our management, as well as on our administrative, operational and financial resources. If we sustain significant growth, we must improve our operational, financial and management information systems and expand, motivate and manage our workforce. If we are unable to do so, or if new systems that we implement to assist in managing any future growth do not produce the expected benefits, our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. International operations expose us to legal, political and economic risks in different countries and currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial results. Revenues attributable to our international operations comprised 1% and less than 1% of our total revenues for the 2008 and 2007, respectively. We expect the percentage of revenues attributable to our international operations to continue to increase. There are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: • lack of developed legal systems to enforce contractual rights; • greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • imposition of governmental controls; • political and economic instability; • changes in U.S. and other national government policies affecting the markets for our services; • changes in regulatory practices, tariffs and taxes; • potential non-compliance with a wide variety of non-U.S. laws and regulations; and • general economic and political conditions in these foreign markets. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Because we do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, for use in the operations and expansion of our business. As a result, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination as to the declaration and payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on factors our board of directors deems relevant, including, among others, our results of operations, financial condition and cash requirements, business prospects, and the terms of our credit facilities and other financing arrangements. Accordingly, realization of a gain on stockholders’ investments will depend on the appreciation of the price of our common stock. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders purchased their shares. The significant number of our outstanding warrants and options to purchase our shares of common stock may place a ceiling on, or otherwise adversely affect the value of our common stock. We have 17,810,300 outstanding warrants and options to purchase shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $5.20 per share, with weighted average remaining life of 0.64 years and only 12,661,716 outstanding shares of common stock as of March 27, 2009. Our warrants represent a very significant market overhang that may limit the value of our common stock, at least in the near term and unless and until we can substantially grow our business. 24 If our initial stockholders and Messrs. Rosato and Gallagher make future sales of our securities, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our stockholders that acquired shares of common stock prior to our initial public offering are entitled to demand that we register the resale of their shares of common stock in certain circumstances. By letter dated July 14, 2008, our initial stockholders exercised their demand right to register the resale of their 1,750,000 shares. In connection with the demand registration, Mr. Rosato, Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. Gallagher, Chief Operating Officer, exercised their piggy-back registration rights, per their registration rights agreement dated January 19, 2007, to register the resale of an aggregate 452,432 shares. We registered the resale of an aggregate of 2,327,432 common stock (including 125,000 shares of our common stock underlying a warrant issued to Maxim Partners, LLC at an exercise price of $5.00) on a Registration statement on a Form S-3 that was declared effective on October 27, 2008. Consequently, these stockholders are entitled to freely sell their shares of common stock in the public market. Sales of a substantial number of these shares in the public market could decrease the market price of our common stock. In addition, the perception that such sales might occur may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Future issuances or sales of our common stock could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Increased scrutiny of financial disclosure could adversely affect investor confidence and any restatement of earnings could increase litigation risks and limit our ability to access the capital markets. Congress, the Securities and Exchange Commission other regulatory authorities and the media are intensely scrutinizing a number of financial reporting issues and practices. If we were required to restate our financial statements as a result of a determination that we had incorrectly applied generally accepted accounting principles, that restatement could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets or the trading price of our securities. The recent scrutiny regarding financial reporting has also resulted in an increase in litigation. There can be no assurance that any such litigation against us would not materially adversely affect our business or the trading price of our securities. Prior to the acquisition of TSS/Vortech, we did not have operations, and TSS/Vortech had never operated as a public company. Fulfilling our obligations incident to being a public company is expensive and time consuming. Prior to the acquisition of TSS/Vortech, both we, as a company without operations, and TSS/Vortech, as a private company, had maintained relatively small finance and accounting staffs. We have engaged a firm to perform internal audit services and assist with the effort to remediate the weaknesses described below and be compliant with Section 404. We have maintained limited disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting as required under the federal securities laws with respect to our limited activities prior to the acquisition, but we have not been required to maintain and establish such disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls as are required with respect to a business such as TSS/Vortech with substantial operations following the acquisition. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, as well as the rules of NASDAQ, we have implemented additional internal and disclosure control procedures and corporate governance practices and adhere to a variety of reporting requirements and complex accounting rules. Compliance with these obligations require significant management time, place significant additional demands on our finance and accounting staff and on our financial, accounting and information systems, and have increased our insurance, legal and financial compliance costs. 25 Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting for fiscal 2007 and beyond and will require an independent registered public accounting firm to report on our assessment as to the effectiveness of these controls for fiscal 2009 and beyond. Any delays or difficulty in satisfying these requirements could adversely affect our future results of operations and our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with an established internal control framework and to report on our conclusion as to the effectiveness of our internal controls for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2008 and subsequent years. In connection with this evaluation, we retained internal audit services to further enhance our internal control environment. It will also require an independent registered public accounting firm to test, evaluate and report on the completeness of our assessment for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2009 and subsequent years. It may cost us more than we expect to comply with these control- and procedure-related requirements. Through December 31, 2006, we had no operations, no full-time personnel and very few personnel of any kind. Our activities from inception in late 2005 and into 2006 focused on completing our initial public offering, identifying acquisition candidates and then completing the acquisition of TSS/Vortech on January 19, 2007. The Company’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. In making this assessment, the Company’s management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (“COSO”) of the Treadway Commission’s Internal Control-Integrated Framework. As a result of this assessment, we have determined that our internal control over financial reporting was ineffective as of December 31, 2008. We had neither the resources, nor the personnel, to provide an adequate control environment. The following material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting existed at December 31, 2008: (i) we did not have the ability to segregate duties; (ii) we lacked formal documentation of policies and procedures that were in place; (iii) controls are inadequate to reasonably assume compliance with generally accepted accounting principles related to revenue. We had begun to address the material internal control weaknesses summarized above beginning in the first quarter of 2008, with the goal of eliminating such deficiencies by the middle of 2009. During 2008 and into 2009 the Company: (i) hired additional personnel and now believes that it has adequate financial personnel to accommodate changes in our business; (ii) hired a Chief Information Officer and now believes that our general computer controls and procedures, which were reported as a material weakness in our 2007 management’s report of internal control over financial reporting have been remediated and are adequate. During 2009 we will address the material weaknesses identified as of December 31, 2008. We plan to continue working with a certified public accounting firm to assist us in our documentation and testing of internal controls over financial reporting in 2009. Any failure to implement required new and improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. This Annual Report on Form 10-K does not include an attestation report of our registered public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. Management’s report was not subject to attestation by our registered public accounting firm pursuant to temporary rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission that permit the company to provide only management’s report in this annual report on Form 10-K. We will be required, however, to provide the attestation report in our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 