Item 1A Risk Factors 12 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 16 Item 2 Properties 17 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 17 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 17 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 18 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 21 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 48 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 50 Item 9 Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 104 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 104 Item 9B Other Information 104 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 107 Item 11 Executive Compensation 107 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 107 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 107 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 107 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 108 Signatures 109 Index To Exhibits 112 2 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION Certain statements and information in this Form 10-K may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “1933 Act”) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “1934 Act”). The words “believe,” “estimate”, “project”, “expect,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “intend,” “foresee,” “should,” “would,” “could” or other similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, which are generally not historical in nature. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effect on us. These forward-looking statements and other information are based on our beliefs as well as assumptions made by us using information currently available. Such statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated, expected or intended. We are making investors aware that such forward-looking statements, because they relate to future events, are by their very nature subject to many important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the outcome of litigation and regulatory proceedings to which we may be a party; the impact of product recalls; increased competition in our industry and actions of our competitors; changes and developments affecting our industry; quarterly or cyclical variations in financial results; our ability to obtain suitable pricing for our products; development of new products and services; our level of indebtedness; the availability of financing on commercially reasonable terms; cost of borrowing; our ability to maintain and improve cost efficiency of operations; changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, raw material, and commodity costs; changes in economic, political, and weather conditions and other factors beyond our control; reliance on third parties for manufacturing of products and provision of services; general U.S. and global economic conditions and disruptions in the financial markets and; the financial condition of our customers and suppliers and our ability to retain our customers; dependence on a limited number of customers; consolidations in the retail grocery and foodservice industries; our ability to continue to make acquisitions in accordance with our business strategy or effectively manage the growth from acquisitions; changes in consumer preferences; changes in laws and regulations applicable to us; disruptions in or failures of our information technology systems; disruption of our supply chain or distribution capabilities; and labor strikes or work stoppages and other risks that are described Part I, Item 1A — Risk Factors and our other reports filed from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements after the date they are made, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business References herein to “we,” “us,” “our,” “Company”, and “TreeHouse” refer to TreeHouse Foods, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context specifically states or implies otherwise. TreeHouse is a Delaware corporation incorporated on January 25, 2005 by Dean Foods Company to accomplish a spin-off of certain specialty businesses to its shareholders, which was completed on June 27, 2005. Since the Company began operating as an independent entity, it has expanded its product offerings through a number of acquisitions: • On April 24, 2006, the Company acquired the private label soup and infant feeding business from Del Monte Corporation. • On May 31, 2007, the Company acquired VDW Acquisition, Ltd. (“San Antonio Farms”), a manufacturer of Mexican sauces. • On October 15, 2007, the Company acquired the assets of E.D. Smith Income Fund (“E.D. Smith”), a manufacturer of salad dressings, jams, and various sauces. • On March 2, 2010, the Company acquired Sturm Foods, Inc. (“Sturm”), a manufacturer of hot cereals and powdered drink mixes. • On October 28, 2010, the Company acquired S.T. Specialty Foods, Inc. (“S.T. Foods”), a manufacturer of dry dinners, which include macaroni and cheese and skillet dinners. • On April 13, 2012, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of Naturally Fresh, Inc. (“Naturally Fresh”), a manufacturer of refrigerated dressings, sauces, marinades, dips, and other specialty items. • On July 1, 2013, the Company acquired Cains Foods, L.P. (“Cains”), a manufacturer of shelf stable mayonnaise, dressings, and sauces. • On October 8, 2013, the Company acquired Associated Brands Management Holdings Inc., Associated Brands Holdings Limited Partnership, Associated Brands GP Corporation, and 6726607 Canada Ltd. (collectively, “Associated Brands”), a manufacturer of powdered drinks, specialty teas, and sweeteners. • On May 30, 2014, the Company acquired all of the outstanding equity interests of PFF Capital Group, Inc. (“Protenergy”), a manufacturer of broths, soups, and gravies. • On July 29, 2014, the Company acquired Flagstone Foods (“Flagstone”), a manufacturer of snack nuts, trail mixes, dried fruit, snack mixes, and other wholesome snacks. We are a consumer packaged food and beverage manufacturer operating 24 manufacturing facilities across the United States and Canada servicing retail grocery, food away from home, and industrial and export customers. We manufacture a variety of shelf stable, refrigerated, and fresh products. Our product categories include beverages; salad dressings; snacks; beverage enhancers; pickles; Mexican and other sauces; soup and infant feeding; cereals; dry dinners; aseptic products; jams; and other products. We have a comprehensive offering of packaging formats and flavor profiles, and we also offer natural, organic, and preservative-free ingredients in many categories. Our strategy is to be the leading supplier of private label food and beverage products by providing the best balance of quality and cost to our customers. We manufacture and sell the following: • private label products to retailers, such as supermarkets, mass merchandisers, and specialty retailers, for resale under the retailers’ own or controlled labels, • private label and branded products to the foodservice industry, including foodservice distributors and national restaurant operators, • branded products under our own proprietary brands, primarily on a regional basis to retailers, and 4 Table of Contents • products to our industrial customer base for repackaging in portion control packages and for use as ingredients by other food manufacturers. We discuss the following segments in Item 7: North American Retail Grocery, Food Away From Home, and Industrial and Export. The key performance indicators of our segments are net sales dollars and direct operating income, which is gross profit less the cost of transporting products to customer locations, commissions paid to independent sales brokers, and direct selling and marketing expenses. North American Retail Grocery — Our North American Retail Grocery segment sells branded and private label products to customers within the United States and Canada. These products include non-dairy powdered creamers; sweeteners; condensed, ready to serve, and powdered soups, broths, and gravies; refrigerated and shelf stable salad dressings and sauces; pickles and related products; Mexican and other sauces; jams and pie fillings; aseptic products; liquid non-dairy creamer; powdered drinks; single serve hot beverages; specialty teas; hot and cold cereals; baking and mix powders; macaroni and cheese; skillet dinners; and snack nuts, trail mixes, dried fruit, and other wholesome snacks. Food Away From Home — Our Food Away From Home segment sells non-dairy powdered creamers; sweeteners; pickles and related products; Mexican and other sauces; refrigerated and shelf stable dressings; aseptic products; hot cereals; powdered drinks; and single serve hot beverages to foodservice customers, including restaurant chains and food distribution companies, within the United States and Canada. Industrial and Export — Our Industrial and Export segment includes the Company’s co-pack business and non-dairy powdered creamer sales to industrial customers for use in industrial applications, including products for repackaging in portion control packages and for use as ingredients by other food manufacturers. This segment sells non-dairy powdered creamer; baking and mix powders; pickles and related products; refrigerated and shelf stable salad dressings; Mexican sauces; aseptic products; soup and infant feeding products; hot cereal; powdered drinks; single serve hot beverages; specialty teas; nuts; and other products. Export sales are primarily to industrial customers outside of North America. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7 for information related to the Company’s business segments. We operate our business as Bay Valley Foods, LLC (“Bay Valley”), Sturm, S.T. Foods, Cains, Associated Brands, Inc. (“Associated Brands U.S.”), Protenergy Natural Foods, Inc. (“Protenergy U.S.”), and Flagstone Foods (“Flagstone”) in the United States and E.D. Smith, Associated Brands, Inc. (“Associated Brands Canada”), and Protenergy Natural Foods Corporation (“Protenergy Canada”) in Canada. Bay Valley is a Delaware limited liability company, a 100% owned subsidiary of TreeHouse. E.D. Smith, Sturm, S.T. Foods, Cains, Associated Brands U.S., Associated Brands Canada, Protenergy U.S., Protenergy Canada, and Flagstone are directly or indirectly 100% owned subsidiaries of Bay Valley. Our Products Financial information about our North American Retail Grocery, Food Away From Home, and Industrial and Export segments can be found in Item 7. 5 Table of Contents The following table presents the Company’s net sales by major products. In 2013, as a result of the Associated Brands acquisition, the Company updated the product categories. We changed Non-dairy creamer to Beverage enhancers to include sweeteners from Associated Brands. Powdered drinks was renamed Beverages and now includes the specialty teas and related products from Associated Brands. We revised Hot cereals to Cereals, as Associated Brands sells cold cereals. These changes did not require prior period adjustments. In 2014, the Company added the Snacks category due to the acquisition of Flagstone. This category includes snack nuts, trail mixes, dried fruit, and other wholesome snacks. Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 (Dollars in thousands) Products Beverages $ 499,829 17.0 % $ 341,547 14.9 % $ 234,430 10.8 % Salad dressings 361,859 12.3 334,577 14.6 284,027 13.0 Beverage enhancers 359,179 12.2 361,290 15.7 362,238 16.6 Soup and infant feeding 351,917 11.9 219,404 9.6 281,827 12.9 Pickles 302,621 10.3 297,904 13.0 308,228 14.1 Snacks 287,281 9.8 — — — — Mexican and other sauces 248,979 8.5 245,171 10.7 232,025 10.6 Cereals 168,739 5.7 169,843 7.4 162,952 7.5 Dry dinners 139,285 4.7 124,075 5.4 126,804 5.8 Aseptic products 102,635 3.5 96,136 4.2 91,585 4.2 Other products 70,720 2.3 46,650 2.0 36,573 1.7 Jams 53,058 1.8 57,330 2.5 61,436 2.8 Total net sales $ 2,946,102 100.0 % $ 2,293,927 100.0 % $ 2,182,125 100.0 % Beverages — We produce a variety of beverages that include the Company’s single serve hot beverages such as filtered coffee, cappuccino, hot cocoa, and cider. Also included in this category are the Company’s powdered drink mixes that include such items as lemonade, iced tea, and energy, vitamin enhanced, and isotonic sports drinks. Beginning in 2013, as a result of the Associated Brands acquisition, we also added specialty teas to our beverages offerings. We primarily sell these products to grocery retailers. We believe we are the largest manufacturer of private label powdered drink mixes in both the United States and Canada, based on volume. We believe we are the largest manufacturer of private label single serve hot beverages in the United States, based on volume. Beverages represented 17.0% of our consolidated net sales in 2014. Salad dressings — We produce pourable and spoonable, refrigerated, and shelf stable salad dressings. Our salad dressings are primarily sold to grocery retailers throughout the United States and Canada, encompass many flavor varieties, and include private label and regional branded offerings. We believe we are the largest manufacturer of private label salad dressings in both the United States and Canada, based on volume. Salad dressings represented 12.3% of our consolidated net sales in 2014. Beverage enhancers — Beverage enhancers includes non-dairy powdered creamer, refrigerated liquid non-dairy creamer, and sweeteners. Non-dairy powdered creamer, the largest component in this category, is used as coffee creamer or whitener and as an ingredient in baking, hot and cold beverages, gravy mixes, and similar products. Product offerings in this category include both private label and branded products packaged for grocery retailers and foodservice customers. Products sold outside of the retail channel are for use in coffee and beverage service, and other industrial applications, such as portion control, repackaging, and ingredient use by other food manufacturers. We believe we are the largest manufacturer of non-dairy powdered creamer in the United States, based on volume. Beverage enhancers represented 12.2% of our consolidated net sales in 2014. Soup and infant feeding — Condensed, ready to serve, and powdered soup, as well as broth and gravy, are produced and packaged in various sizes, from single serve to larger sized packages. We primarily produce private 6 Table of Contents label products sold to grocery retailers. In 2014, the acquisition of Protenergy contributed additional volume to this category, while also diversifying the Company’s packaging technologies to include carton production capabilities. We also co-pack organic infant feeding products for a branded baby food company in the Industrial and Export segment. In 2014, soup and infant feeding sales represented 11.9% of our consolidated net sales, with the majority of the sales coming from soup sold through the retail channel. Pickles — We produce pickles and a variety of related products, including peppers and pickled vegetables, for private label and regional branded offerings. These products are sold to grocery retail, foodservice, and industrial customers. We believe we are the largest producer of pickles in the United States, based on volume. Pickles and related products represented 10.3% of our consolidated net sales in 2014. Snacks — We produce snack nuts, trail mixes, dried fruit, snack mixes, and other wholesome snacks as a result of our Flagstone acquisition in 2014. We believe we are the largest manufacturer of trail mixes in North America. These products are predominantly sold to grocery retailers. Snacks represented 9.8% of our consolidated net sales in 2014. Mexican and other sauces — We produce a wide variety of Mexican and other sauces, including salsa, picante sauce, cheese dip, enchilada sauce, pasta sauce, and taco sauce that we sell to grocery retailers and foodservice customers in the United States and Canada, as well as to industrial markets. Mexican and other sauces represented 8.5% of our consolidated net sales in 2014. Cereals —We produce a variety of instant, cook-on-stove, and traditional cereals, the majority of which include oatmeal, farina, and grits in single-serve instant packets and microwaveable bowls. These products are primarily sold to grocery retailers. We believe we are the largest manufacturer of private label instant hot cereals in both the United States and Canada, based on volume. Cereals represented 5.7% of our consolidated net sales in 2014. Dry dinners — We produce private label macaroni and cheese, skillet dinners, and other value-added side dishes. These products are sold to grocery retailers. Dry dinners represented 4.7% of our consolidated net sales in 2014. Aseptic products — We produce aseptic products, which include cheese sauces and puddings. Aseptic products are processed under heat and pressure in a sterile production and packaging environment, creating a product that does not require refrigeration prior to use. These products are sold primarily to foodservice customers in cans and flexible packages. Aseptic products represented 3.5% of our consolidated net sales in 2014. Jams — We produce jams and pie fillings that we sell to grocery retailers and foodservice customers in the United States and Canada. Jams represented 1.8% of our consolidated net sales in 2014. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for financial information by segment. Customers and Distribution We sell our products through various distribution channels, including grocery retailers, foodservice distributors, and industrial and export, which includes food manufacturers and repackagers of foodservice products. We have an internal sales force that manages customer relationships and a broker network for sales to retail and foodservice accounts. Industrial food products are generally sold directly to customers without the use of a broker. Most of our customers purchase products from us either by purchase order or pursuant to contracts that generally are terminable at will. Products are shipped from our production facilities directly to customers, or from warehouse distribution centers where products are consolidated for shipment to customers if an order includes products manufactured in more than one production facility or product category. We believe this consolidation of products enables us to improve customer service by offering our customers a single order, invoice, and shipment. 7 Table of Contents We sell our products to a diverse customer base, including most of the leading grocery retailers and foodservice operators in the United States and Canada, and a variety of customers that purchase bulk products for industrial food applications. We currently supply more than 250 food retail customers in North America, including each of the 50 largest food retailers, and more than 500 foodservice customers, including distributors who comprise 90% of the foodservice sales universe and over 50 of the 100 largest restaurant chains. A relatively limited number of customers account for a large percentage of our consolidated net sales. For the year ended December 31, 2014, our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 54.0% of our consolidated net sales. For the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 18.8%, 19.0% and 20.7%, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of the Company’s consolidated net sales. Total trade receivables with Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and affiliates represented 17.5% and 24.8% of our total trade receivables as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The Company had revenues from customers outside of the United States of approximately 12.4%, 13.2%, and 13.0% of total consolidated net sales in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively, with 11.3%, 12.2%, and 12.1% from Canada in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. Sales are determined based on the customer destination where the products are shipped. Backlog We generally ship our products from inventory upon receipt of a customer order. In certain cases, we produce to order. Sales order backlog is not material to our business. Competition We have several competitors in each of our segments. For sales of private label products to retailers, the principal competitive factors are product quality, quality of service, and price. For sales of products to foodservice, industrial, and export customers, the principal competitive factors are price, product quality, specifications, and reliability of service. We believe we are the largest manufacturer of non-dairy powdered creamer, pickles, and private label single serve hot beverages in the United States, based on volume, and the largest manufacturer of private label salad dressings, powdered drink mixes, trail mixes, and instant hot cereals in the United States and Canada, based on sales volume. Competition to obtain shelf space for our branded products with retailers generally is based on the expected or historical performance of our product sales relative to our competitors. The principal competitive factors for sales of our branded products to consumers are brand recognition and loyalty, product quality, promotion, and price. Some of our branded competitors have significantly greater resources and brand recognition than we do. Recent trends impacting competition include an increase in snacking and awareness of healthier and “better for you” foods. These trends, together with a surge of specialty retailers who cater to consumers looking for either the highest quality ingredients, unique packaging, products to satisfy particular dietary needs, or value offerings where consumers are looking to maximize their food purchasing power, create pressure on manufacturers to provide a full array of products to meet customer and consumer demand. We believe our strategies for competing in each of our business segments, which include providing superior product quality, effective cost control, an efficient supply chain, successful innovation programs, and competitive pricing, allow us to compete effectively. Patents and Trademarks We own a number of registered trademarks. While we consider our trademarks to be valuable assets, we do not consider any trademark to be of such material importance that its absence would cause a material disruption of our business. No trademark is material to any one segment. 8 Table of Contents Trademarks sold within the North American Retail Grocery segment include the following pickle brands, Farman’s®, Nalley®, Peter Piper®, and Steinfeld’s®. Also sold are trademarks related to sauces and syrups that include, Bennett’s®, Hoffman House®, Roddenbery’s Northwoods®, and San Antonio Farms®. Non-dairy powdered creamer is sold under our proprietary Cremora® trademark, and non-dairy refrigerated liquid creamer is sold under the Mocha Mix® trademark. Single serve hot beverages are sold under the Caza Trail® and Grove Square® trademarks. Other refrigerated products are sold under the Second Nature® trademark, and our jams and other sauces are sold under the E.D. Smith® and Habitant® trademarks. Our oatmeal is sold under the McCann’s® trademark. Certain refrigerated dressings and sauces are sold under the Naturally Fresh® trademark. Additionally, certain mayonnaise, dressings, and sauces are sold under the Cains® and Olde Cape Cod® trademarks. Knox® gelatin and J-Cloth® cleaning cloths are products using these trademarks sold in Canada. As a result of the Flagstone acquisition, the Company acquired the Ann’s House of Nuts® and Amport® trademarks. These trademarks are primarily used in the North American Retail Grocery segment and pertain to the snacks product category. Trademarks used in our Food Away From Home segment include Schwartz®, Saucemaker®, Naturally Fresh®, and Cains®. Seasonality In the aggregate, our sales do not vary significantly by quarter but are slightly weighted towards the second half of the year, particularly in the fourth quarter, with a more pronounced impact on profitability. As our product portfolio has grown, we have shifted to a higher percentage of cold weather products. Products that show a higher level of seasonality include non-dairy powdered creamer, coffee, specialty teas, cappuccinos, and hot cereal, all of which have higher sales in the first and fourth quarters. Additionally, sales of soup and snack nuts are highest in the fourth quarter. Warmer weather products such as dressings and pickles typically have higher sales in the second quarter, while drink mixes show higher sales in the second and third quarters. As a result of our product portfolio and the related seasonality, our financing needs are highest in the second and third quarters due to inventory builds, while cash flow is highest in the first and fourth quarters following the seasonality of our sales. Foreign Operations and Geographic Information Foreign sales information is set forth in Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Raw Materials and Supplies Our raw materials consist of ingredients and packaging materials. Principal ingredients used in our operations include processed vegetables and meats, soybean oil, coconut oil, casein, oats, wheat, cheese, corn syrup, coffee, tea, cucumbers, peppers, nuts, and fruit. These ingredients are generally purchased under supply contracts, and we occasionally engage in forward buying when we determine such buying to be to our advantage. We believe these ingredients generally are available from a number of suppliers. The cost of raw materials used in our products may fluctuate due to weather conditions, regulations, industry and general U.S. and global economic conditions, fuel prices, energy costs, labor disputes, transportation delays, political unrest, or other unforeseen circumstances. The most important packaging materials and supplies used in our operations are glass, plastic, and corrugated containers, metal closures, and metal cans. Most packaging materials are purchased under long-term supply contracts. We believe these packaging materials are generally available from a number of suppliers. Volatility in the cost of our raw materials and packaging supplies can adversely affect our performance, as price changes often lag behind changes in costs, and we are not always able to adjust our pricing to reflect changes in raw material and supply costs. 9 Table of Contents For additional discussion of the risks associated with the raw materials used in our operations, see Part 1, Item 1A — Risk Factors and Item 7 — Known Trends and Uncertainties. Working Capital Our short-term financing needs are primarily for financing working capital and are highest in the second and third quarters as we build inventory. Due to the seasonality of vegetable and fruit production being driven by harvest cycles, which occur primarily during late spring and summer, inventories generally are at a low point in late spring and at a high point during the fall, increasing our working capital requirements. In addition, we build inventories of salad dressings in the spring and inventories of soup and nuts in the summer months in anticipation of large seasonal shipments that begin late in the second and third quarters, respectively. Our long-term financing needs depend largely on potential acquisition activity. Our $900 million revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), plus cash flow from operations, is expected to be adequate to provide liquidity for a period of no less than twelve months. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Item 7. Research and Development Sample preparation, plant trials, ingredient approval, and other quality control procedures are conducted at all our manufacturing facilities. Research and development expense totaled $12.8 million, $17.5 million, and $11.1 million in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively, and is included in the General and administrative line of the Consolidated Statements of Income. Below is a list of our facilities and related research and development activities: Facility: Research and Development Activities: Atlanta, GA Salad dressings, dips Ayer, MA Mayonnaise, salad dressings, sauces Brooklyn Park, MN Dry dinners Cambridge, MD Soups, broths, and gravies Delta, British Columbia, Canada Specialty teas Dixon, IL Aseptic products Green Bay, WI Pickle and related products Manawa, WI Hot cereals, powdered drinks Medina, NY Powdered drinks, dry dinners, sweeteners Mississauga, Ontario, Canada Powdered drinks, dry dinners, sweeteners North East, PA Salad dressings Oak Brook, IL All product categories Pecatonica, IL Aseptic, powdered creamer Pittsburgh, PA Soup, infant feeding Richmond Hill, Ontario, Canada Soups, broths, and gravies San Antonio, TX Mexican sauces St. Paul, MN Snacks Winona, Ontario, Canada Jams, fruit-based products, sauces Employees As of December 31, 2014, our work force consisted of approximately 6,181 full-time employees, with 5,353 in the United States and 828 in Canada. Available Information We make available, free of charge, through the “Investor Relations — SEC Filings” link on our Internet website at www.treehousefoods.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the 1934 Act, 10 Table of Contents as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. We use our Internet website, through the “Investor Relations” link, as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, and financial information. Copies of any materials the Company files with the SEC can be obtained free of charge through the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov, at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, or by calling the SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Assistance at 1-800-732-0330. Regulatory Environment and Environmental Compliance The conduct of our businesses, and the production, distribution, sale, labeling, safety, transportation, and use of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state, and local governmental agencies in the United States, as well as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in markets where we operate. It is our policy to abide by the laws and regulations that apply to our businesses. We are subject to national and local environmental laws in the United States and in foreign countries in which we do business including laws relating to water consumption and treatment, air quality, waste handling and disposal, and other regulations intended to protect public health and the environment. We are committed to meeting all applicable environmental compliance requirements. The cost of compliance with national and international laws does not have and is not expected to have, a material financial impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. Executive Officers as of February 19, 2015 Sam K. Reed 68 Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Reed has served as the Chief Executive Officer since January 2005 and President since July 2011. Dennis F. Riordan 57 Executive Vice President since July 2011. Chief Financial Officer since January 2006. Thomas E. O’Neill 59 Executive Vice President since July 2011. General Counsel, Chief Administrative Officer and Corporate Secretary since January 2005. Harry J. Walsh 59 Executive Vice President, Acquisition Integration since May 2013. Executive Vice President since July 2011. Chris D. Sliva 51 Executive Vice President for TreeHouse Foods, Inc. and President of Bay Valley Foods, LLC since July 2012. Alan T. Gambrel 60 Senior Vice President, Human Resources for TreeHouse Foods, Inc. since January 2005 and Chief Administrative Officer of Bay Valley Foods, LLC since July 2008. Erik T. Kahler 49 Senior Vice President, Corporate Development since October 2006. Rachel R. Bishop 41 Senior Vice President, Chief Strategy Officer since May 2014. 11 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company also may impair the Company’s business operations and financial condition. Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to fund acquisitions or to renew our outstanding credit agreements upon expiration on commercially reasonable terms. As of December 31, 2014, we had $1,459.9 million of outstanding indebtedness which included $554 million outstanding under our $900 million Revolving Credit Facility that matures May 6, 2019, a $298.5 million senior unsecured term loan (the “Term Loan”) maturing on May 6, 2021, a $197.5 million senior unsecured term loan (the “Acquisition Term Loan”) that matures on May 6, 2019, $400 million of 4.875% notes due March 15, 2022 (the “2022 Notes”), and $9.9 million of tax increment financing, capital lease obligations, and other debt. The inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our debt obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the inability to access additional borrowing at commercially reasonable terms could affect our ability to pursue additional acquisitions. United States capital credit markets have experienced volatility, dislocations, and liquidity disruptions that caused tightened access to capital markets and other sources of funding. Capital and credit markets and the U.S. and global economies could be affected by additional volatility or economic downturns in the future. Events affecting the credit markets could have an adverse effect on other financial markets in the United States, which may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of common stock or other equity securities. There can be no assurance that future volatility or disruption in the capital and credit markets will not impair our liquidity or increase our costs of borrowing. Our business could also be negatively impacted if our suppliers or customers experience disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets, or a slowdown in the general economy. Any of these risks could impair our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business and could possibly increase our interest expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Increases in interest rates may negatively affect earnings. As of December 31, 2014, the aggregate principal amount of our debt instruments with exposure to interest rate risk was approximately $1,050.0 million, based on the outstanding debt balance of our revolving credit facility. As a result, higher interest rates will increase the cost of servicing our financial instruments with exposure to interest rate risk, and could materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. As of December 31, 2014, each one percentage point change in interest rates would result in an approximate $10.5 million change in the annual cash interest expense, before any principal payment, on our financial instruments with exposure to interest rate risk. Fluctuations in foreign currencies may adversely affect earnings. The Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company’s Canadian subsidiaries purchase various inputs that are based in U.S. dollars, accordingly, the profitability of the Canadian subsidiaries are subject to foreign currency transaction gains and losses that affect earnings. We manage the impact of foreign currency fluctuations related to raw material purchases using foreign currency contracts. We are also exposed to fluctuations in the value of our foreign currency investment in our Canadian subsidiaries. We translate the Canadian assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars at applicable exchange rates. Accordingly, we are exposed to volatility in the translation of foreign currency earnings due to fluctuations in the value of the Canadian dollar, which may negatively impact the Company’s results of operations and financial position. 12 Table of Contents As we are dependent upon a limited number of customers, the loss of a significant customer, or consolidation of our customer base, could adversely affect our operating results. A limited number of customers represent a large percentage of our consolidated net sales. Our operating results are contingent on our ability to maintain our sales to these customers. The competition to supply products to these high volume customers is very strong. We expect that a significant portion of our net sales will continue to arise from a small number of customers, consisting primarily of traditional grocery retailers, mass merchandisers, and foodservice operators. For the year ended December 31, 2014, our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 54.0% of our consolidated net sales. These customers typically do not enter into written contracts, and the contracts that they do enter into generally are terminable at will. Our customers make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, product quality, and customer service performance. If our product sales to one or more of these customers decline, this reduction may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, over the past several years, the retail grocery and foodservice industries have experienced a consolidation trend, which has resulted in mass merchandisers and non-traditional grocers gaining market share. As our customer base continues to consolidate, we expect competition to intensify as we compete for the business of fewer large customers. As this trend continues and such customers grow larger, they may seek to use their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing or increased promotional programs. If we are unable to use our scale, product innovation, and category leadership positions to respond to these demands, our profitability or volume growth could be negatively impacted. Additionally, if the surviving entity of a consolidation or similar transaction is not a current customer of the Company, we may lose significant business once held with the acquired retailer. Increases in input costs, such as ingredients, packaging materials, and fuel costs, could adversely affect earnings. The costs of raw materials, packaging materials, and fuel have varied widely in recent years and future changes in such costs may cause our results of operations and our operating margins to fluctuate significantly. While individual input cost changes varied throughout the year, with certain costs increasing and others decreasing, input costs remained relatively flat in 2014 compared to 2013. We expect the volatile nature of these costs to continue with an overall long-term upward trend. We manage the impact of increases in the costs of raw materials, wherever possible, by locking in prices on quantities required to meet our production requirements. In addition, we attempt to offset the effect of such increases by raising prices to our customers. However, changes in the prices of our products may lag behind changes in the costs of our materials. Competitive pressures may also limit our ability to quickly raise prices in response to increased raw materials, packaging, and fuel costs. Accordingly, if we are unable to increase our prices to offset increasing raw material, packaging, and fuel costs, our operating profits and margins could be materially affected. In addition, in instances of declining input costs, customers may look for price reductions in situations where we have locked into purchases at higher costs. Our private label and regionally branded products may not be able to compete successfully with nationally branded products. For sales of private label products to retailers, the principal competitive factors are price, product quality, and quality of service. For sales of private label products to consumers, the principal competitive factors are price and product quality. In many cases, competitors with nationally branded products have a competitive advantage over private label products due to name recognition. In addition, when branded competitors focus on price and promotion, the environment for private label producers becomes more challenging because the price differential between private label products and branded products may become less significant. 13 Table of Contents Competition to obtain shelf space for our branded products with retailers is primarily based on the expected or historical performance of our product sales relative to our competitors. The principal competitive factors for sales of our branded products to consumers are brand recognition and loyalty, product quality, promotion, and price. Most of our branded competitors have significantly greater resources and brand recognition than we do. Competitive pressures or other factors could cause us to lose market share, which may require us to lower prices, increase the use of discounting or promotional programs, or increase marketing expenditures, each of which would adversely affect our margins and could result in a decrease in our operating results and profitability. We operate in the highly competitive food industry. We face competition across our product lines from other companies that have varying abilities to withstand changes in market conditions. Some of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other resources, and competition with them in our various business segments and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Category share and growth could also be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing new products. Some customer buying decisions are based on a periodic bidding process in which the successful bidder is assured the selling of its selected product to the food retailer, super center, mass merchandiser, or foodservice distributors, until the next bidding process. Our sales volume may decrease significantly if our offer is too high and we lose the ability to sell products through these channels, even temporarily. Alternatively, we risk reducing our margins if our offer is successful but below our desired price point. Either of these outcomes may adversely affect our results of operations. We may be unsuccessful in our future acquisition endeavors, if any, which may have an adverse effect on our business. Consistent with our stated strategy, our future growth depends, in large part, on our acquisition of additional food manufacturing businesses, products or processes. We may be unable to identify suitable targets, opportunistic or otherwise, for acquisition or make acquisitions at favorable prices. If we identify a suitable acquisition candidate, our ability to successfully implement the acquisition would depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms. Acquisitions involve risks, including those associated with integrating the operations, financial reporting, disparate technologies, and personnel of acquired companies; managing geographically dispersed operations; the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have either limited or no direct experience; unknown risks; and the potential loss of key employees, customers, and strategic partners of acquired companies. We may not successfully integrate businesses or technologies we acquire in the future and may not achieve anticipated revenue and cost benefits. Acquisitions may not be accretive to our earnings and may negatively impact our results of operations due to, among other things, the incurrence of debt, onetime write-offs of goodwill, and amortization expenses of other intangible assets. In addition, future acquisitions could result in dilutive issuances of equity securities. We may be unable to anticipate changes in consumer preferences, which may result in decreased demand for our products. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the tastes, eating habits, and overall purchasing trends of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences. Consumer preferences change from time to time, and our failure to anticipate, identify, or react to these changes could result in reduced demand for our products, which would adversely affect our operating results and profitability. 14 Table of Contents We may be subject to product liability claims for misbranded, adulterated, contaminated or spoiled food products. We sell food products for human consumption, which involves risks such as product contamination or spoilage, misbranding, product tampering, and other adulteration of food products. Consumption of a misbranded, adulterated, contaminated or spoiled product may result in personal illness or injury. We could be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to an actual or alleged illness or injury, and we could incur liabilities that are not insured or that exceed our insurance coverage. Even if product liability claims against us are not successful or fully pursued, these claims could be costly and time consuming, and may require management to spend time defending the claims rather than operating our business. A product that has been actually or allegedly misbranded or becomes adulterated could result in product withdrawals, product recalls, destruction of product inventory, negative publicity, temporary plant closings, and substantial costs of compliance or remediation. Any of these events, including a significant product liability judgment against us, could result in a loss of confidence in our food products, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. New laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations could adversely affect our business. The food industry is subject to a variety of federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations, including those related to food safety, food labeling, and environmental matters. Governmental regulations also affect taxes and levies, healthcare costs, energy usage, international trade, immigration, and other labor issues, all of which may have a direct or indirect effect on our business or those of our customers or suppliers. Changes in these laws or regulations, or the introduction of new laws or regulations, could increase the costs of doing business for the Company, our customers, or suppliers, or restrict our actions, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. Increased government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions as a result of concern over climate change may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures, and other financial obligations for us. We use natural gas, diesel fuel, and electricity in the manufacturing and distribution of our products. Legislation or regulation affecting these inputs could materially affect our profitability. In addition, climate change could affect our ability to procure needed commodities at costs and in quantities we currently experience, and may require us to make additional unplanned capital expenditures. Our business operations could be disrupted if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage our business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment, and other business processes. The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. In addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, system failures, security breaches, and viruses. If we are unable to prevent security breaches, we may suffer business disruption, theft of intellectual property, trade secrets, or customer information and unauthorized access to personnel, customer, or otherwise confidential information. Such unauthorized disclosure of information may lead to financial or reputational damage or penalties, which could cause significant damage to our reputation, affect our relationships with our customers, or lead to claims against the Company or governmental investigations and proceedings, any of which could result in our exposure to material civil or criminal liability and ultimately harm our business. To the extent that our business is interrupted or data is lost, destroyed, or inappropriately used or disclosed, such disruptions could adversely affect our competitive position, relationships with our customers, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against the damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. 15 Table of Contents Changes in weather conditions, natural disasters, and other events beyond our control could adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in weather conditions and natural disasters such as floods, droughts, frosts, earthquakes, hurricanes, fires, or pestilence, may affect the cost and supply of commodities and raw materials. Additionally, these events could result in reduced supplies of raw materials. Our competitors may be affected differently by weather conditions and natural disasters depending on the location of their suppliers and operations. Further, our earnings may be affected by seasonal factors including the seasonality of our supplies and consumer demand. Damage or disruption to our production or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, pandemic, strikes, or other reasons could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to reduce the likelihood or mitigate the potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, particularly when a product is sourced from a single location, could adversely affect our business and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. Disruption of our supply chain or distribution capabilities could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our ability to manufacture, move, and sell products is critical to our success. We are subject to damage or disruption to raw material supplies or our manufacturing or distribution capabilities (in particular, to the extent that our raw materials are sourced globally) due to weather, including any potential effects of climate change, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, adverse changes in political conditions or political unrest, pandemic, strikes, import restrictions, or other factors that could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. Our business could be harmed by strikes or work stoppages by our employees. Currently, collective bargaining agreements cover a significant number of our full-time distribution, production, and maintenance employees. A dispute with a union or employees represented by a union could result in production interruptions caused by work stoppages. If a strike or work stoppage were to occur, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 Table of Contents 