Risk Factors,” as well as any cautionary language in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements, including but not limited to, statements concerning: · our mission-critical services business, its advantages and our strategy for continuing to pursue our business; · anticipated dates on which we will begin providing certain services or reach specific milestones in the development and implementation of our business strategy; · expectations as to our future revenue, margin, expenses, cash flows and capital requirements; · our integration of acquired businesses; · the amount of cash available to us to execute our business strategy; · continued compliance with government regulations; · statements about industry trends; · geopolitical events and regulatory changes; and · other statements of expectations, beliefs, future plans and strategies. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including financial, regulatory, industry growth and trend projections, that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the statements. The most important factors that could prevent us from achieving our stated goals include, but are not limited to, our failure to: · implement our strategic plan, including our ability to make acquisitions and the performance and future integration of acquired businesses; · deliver services and products that meet customer demands and generate acceptable margins; · increase sales volume by attracting new customers, retaining existing customers and growing the overall number of customers to minimize a significant portion of our revenues being dependent on a limited number of customers; · risks relating to revenues and backlog under customer contracts, many of which can be cancelled on short notice; · manage and meet contractual terms of complex projects; · attract and retain qualified management and other personnel; and · meet all of the terms and conditions of our debt obligations. Except as required by applicable law and regulations, we undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Further disclosures that we make on related subjects in our additional filings with the SEC or Securities and Exchange Commission should be consulted. For further information regarding the risks and uncertainties that may affect our future results, please review the information set forth below under “ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.” 6 PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Background of Fortress International Group, Inc. We were incorporated in Delaware on December 20, 2004 as a special purpose acquisition company under the name “Fortress America Acquisition Corporation,” for the purpose of acquiring an operating business that performed services to the homeland security industry. On July 20, 2005, we closed our initial public offering of 7,000,000 units, with each unit consisting of one share of our common stock and two warrants (each warrant to purchase one share of our common stock at $5.00 per share). The units were sold at an offering price of $6.00 per unit, generating gross proceeds of $42,000,000. On August 24, 2005, we sold an additional 800,000 units pursuant to the underwriters’ over-allotment option raising additional gross proceeds of $4,800,000. After deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and the offering expenses, the total net proceeds to us from the offering were approximately $43,183,521, of which $41,964,000 was deposited into a trust fund and the remaining proceeds of $1,219,521 (“available funds”) were made available to be used to provide for business, legal and accounting due diligence on prospective business combinations and continuing general and administrative expenses. On January 19, 2007, we acquired all of the outstanding membership interests of each of VTC, L.L.C. and Vortech, L.L.C. (“TSS/Vortech”) pursuant to a Second Amended and Restated Membership Interest Purchase Agreement dated July 31, 2006, as amended by the Amendment to the Second Amended and Restated Membership Interest Purchase Agreement dated January 16, 2007 (the “Purchase Agreement”). The closing consideration consisted of (i) $11,000,000 in cash, (ii) the assumption of $154,599 of debt of TSS/Vortech, (iii) 3,176,813 shares of our stock, of which 2,534,988 shares were issued to the selling members, 67,825 shares were issued to Evergreen Capital L.L.C. as partial payment of certain outstanding consulting fees and 574,000 shares were designated for issuance to employees of TSS/Vortech under our 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, and (iv) $10,000,000 in two convertible, interest-bearing promissory notes of $5,000,000 each. All of the shares of our common stock issued to the selling members, Messrs. Thomas P. Rosato and Gerard J. Gallagher, are subject to a lock-up agreement restricting the sale or transfer of those shares through July 13, 2008 and are being held in escrows maintained by the escrow agent (up to 2,461,728 shares held in a general indemnity escrow and 73,260 shares held in a balance sheet escrow). The shares of our stock issued to certain employees as restricted stock grants are subject to forfeiture if the receiving employee terminates his or her employment within three years of the acquisition closing date, in which event the forfeited shares will be delivered to the selling members. Each convertible promissory note bears interest at 6% per year and has a term of five years. Interest only is payable during the first two years of each note with principal payments commencing on the second anniversary of the note and continuing throughout the balance of the term of the note in equal quarterly installments of $416,667. At any time after the sixth month following the closing of the acquisition, the notes are convertible by Messrs. Rosato and Gallagher into shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $7.50 per share. At any time after the sixth month following the closing of the acquisition, the notes are automatically convertible if the average closing price of our common stock for 20 consecutive trading days equals or exceeds $7.50 per share. On August 29, 2007, we entered into an agreement with our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Rosato, to retire $2,500,000 of the convertible promissory note due to him by paying $2,000,000 and Mr. Rosato agreed to use the proceeds to purchase the Company’s common stock and warrants pursuant to a 10b5-1 plan with a designated broker. The prepayment discount realized of $500,000 was recorded to additional paid-in capital. The transaction was completed on September 28, 2007. The cash portion of the payments made in the TSS/Vortech acquisition was financed entirely through the use of cash raised in our initial public offering and held in a trust fund prior to the closing of the acquisition. In connection with the acquisition of TSS/Vortech, holders of 756,100 shares of common stock voted against the acquisition and exercised their right to convert their shares of common stock into $5.74 of cash per share. An aggregate of $4,342,310 was paid to the converting stockholders. These conversions were also funded with the proceeds of our initial public offering. Following the completion of the acquisition, we announced and implemented a common stock repurchase program. As a result of that program, through December 31, 2007, we had utilized $2,036,015 of cash to repurchase 379,075 shares of our common stock at an average price of $5.37 per share. We retired 221,000 of the repurchased shares on June 13, 2007. The repurchase program was suspended during the third quarter of 2007. Upon the closing of the acquisition, we entered into employment agreements with each of the selling members, Messrs. Rosato and Gallagher, under which each is entitled to an initial annual base compensation of $425,000, an annual bonus of up to 50% of his base compensation, and if during the period from the closing of the acquisition through July 13, 2008 the market price of our common stock reaches certain thresholds, up to $5.0 million in shares of our common stock. Mr. Rosato’s employment agreement contemplates that he will serve as our chief executive officer for a period of three years, and Mr. Gallagher’s employment agreement contemplates that he will serve as our president and chief operating officer for a period of three years. 7 Upon the closing of the acquisition, we also entered into an employment agreement with Harvey L. Weiss under which Mr. Weiss agreed to serve as our chairman for a period of three years at an initial annual base compensation of $200,000 and an annual bonus of up to 50% of his base compensation. Mr. Weiss is entitled to certain other benefits under the terms of his employment agreement. At the same time, we entered into a three-year consulting agreement with Washington Capital Advisors, L.L.C., whose principal equity owner and officer is C. Thomas McMillen, our director. Under the terms of the consulting agreement, Washington Capital Advisors has agreed to provide advisory services relating to strategic, financial, marketing and business development matters, as well as mergers and acquisitions for an initial annual base compensation of $200,000 and an annual bonus of up to 50% of base compensation, as well as certain other benefits. In connection with the acquisition, our stockholders adopted an amendment and restatement of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to (i) change our name from “Fortress America Acquisition Corporation” to “Fortress International Group, Inc.” and (ii) remove certain provisions applicable only prior to our completion of the acquisition. Stockholders also approved our 2006 Omnibus Incentive Plan and elected David J. Mitchell to our Board of Directors for a term expiring in 2009. After our initial acquisition of TSS/Vortech, management continued an acquisition strategy to expand our geographical footprint, add complementary services and diversify and expand our customer base. We acquired substantially all of the assets of Comm Site of South Florida, Inc. (“Comm Site”) on May 7, 2007, 100% of the outstanding and issued capital stock of Innovative Power Solutions, Inc. and Quality Power Solutions, Inc. (“Innovative”) on September 24, 2007, and 100% of the membership interests of Rubicon Integration, L.L.C. (“Rubicon”) on November 30, 2007. Subsequent to year end, on January 2, 2008, we purchased 100% of the outstanding and issued capital stock of SMLB, Ltd. Our principal executive offices are located at 9841 Broken Land Parkway, Columbia, Maryland 21046 and our telephone number is (410) 312-9988. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, are available to you free of charge through the Securities and Exchange Commission’s (“SEC”) website at www.sec.gov or on our website at http://thefigi.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Business We plan, design, build and maintain mission-critical facilities such as data centers, trading floors, call centers, network operation centers, communication facilities, laboratories and secure bunkers and we offer expertise for electrical, mechanical, telecommunications, security, fire protection and building automation systems that are critical to the mission-critical facilities lifeblood. We provide a single source solution for highly technical mission-critical facilities and the infrastructure systems that are critical to their function. Our services include technology consulting, engineering and design management, construction management, system installations, operations management, and facilities management and maintenance. During the past three years, our revenue growth has been driven primarily by government spending on homeland security initiatives spurred by the events of September 11, 2001. These events have also affected businesses, which are increasing spending on data security and privacy. These homeland security initiatives include projects that require the hardening, relocation, renovation and upgrade of mission-critical facilities to protect critical government information networks and data processing centers against attacks. With respect to these critical infrastructure systems, we focus on physical security, network security, redundancies for uninterruptible power supply systems, electrical switch gear, stand-by power generators, heat rejection and cooling systems, fire protection systems, monitoring and control systems, and security systems, as well as the physical environment that houses critical operations. We help our customers to plan for, prevent or mitigate against the consequences of attacks, power outages and natural disasters. We provide our services, directly and indirectly, to both government and private sector customers. We have obtained a facility clearance from the United States Department of Defense. This clearance enables us to access and service restricted government projects. In addition to the facility clearance, we have successfully cleared approximately one-third of our employees, allowing them individual access to restricted projects and facilities. 8 Growth Through Acquisitions Beginning in 2006 and continuing into 2007, we implemented a plan to grow our business, diversify our customer base, and gain additional operational scale. To mitigate business volume fluctuations and customer concentration, we added selling, general and administrative personnel, enabling us to bid and quote up to approximately several hundred million in revenues across our service offerings. We acquired four businesses during the fiscal year 2007 that have provided complementary services, extended our geographical footprint and added key customers and personnel. In the future, we expect to continue our growth initiatives both internally and through potential acquisitions of specialized mission-critical engineering or IT services firms (primarily in the United States). We believe that growth-oriented strategy enables us to compete effectively in the markets in which we operate. On January 19, 2007, we acquired all of the outstanding membership interests of each of VTC, L.L.C., doing business as Total Site Solutions, and Vortech, L.L.C., or TSS/Vortech. TSS/Vortech provides comprehensive services for the planning, design, and development of mission-critical facilities and information infrastructure. The closing consideration consisted of (i) $11,519,151 in cash, including acquisition costs of $1,841,468 and net of $1,322,317 of acquired cash. (ii) the assumption of $154,599 of debt of TSS/Vortech, (iii) 2,602,813 shares of our common stock, of which 2,534,988 shares were issued to the selling members 67,825 shares were issued to Evergreen Capital L.L.C. as partial payment of certain outstanding consulting fees, and 574,000 shares were designated for issuance to employees of TSS/Vortech under our 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan. (iv) $10,000,000 in two convertible promissory notes of $5,000,000 each, bearing interest at 6%. Simultaneously with the acquisition of TSS/Vortech, we changed our name from “Fortress America Acquisition Corporation” to our current name, “Fortress International Group, Inc.” Following our initial acquisition of TSS/Vortech, we continued with our acquisition strategy to expand our geographical footprint, add complementary services and diversify and expand our customer base. On May 7, 2007, we purchased substantially all of the assets of Comm Site of South Florida, Inc. for $150,000 paid in cash. On September 24, 2007, we entered into a stock purchase agreement with Innovative Power Systems Inc., Quality Power Systems, Inc., or, collectively, Innovative, and the stockholders of Innovative. Based in Virginia, Innovative installs, tests and services specialized uninterruptible power supply systems and backup power supply systems for data centers and mission-critical facilities throughout the Washington DC metropolitan area. Pursuant to the stock purchase agreement, we acquired 100% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Innovative for the aggregate consideration consisting of (i) $1,614,452 in cash, including acquisition cost of $112,420, net of cash acquired of $244,968 cash subject to certain adjustment as provided in the Agreement, (ii) a promissory note for the aggregate amount of $300,000 plus interest accruing at 6% annually from the date of the issuance of the promissory note (payable in three years, based on a five-year amortization schedule, as described in note), (iii) 25,155 shares of our common stock, and (iv) additional earn-out amounts if Innovative achieves certain targeted earnings for each of the calendar years 2007-2010, as further described in the stock purchase agreement. On November 30, 2007, we entered into a membership interest purchase agreement with Rubicon Integration, L.L.C., or Rubicon, a Delaware limited liability company based in McLean, Virginia, and each of the members of Rubicon. Rubicon provides consulting, owners representation and equipment integration services for mission-critical facilities to corporate customers across the United States. Pursuant to the purchase agreement, we acquired 100% of the membership interests of Rubicon for the aggregate consideration consisting of (i) $4,745,524 in cash, including acquisition costs of $ 198,043 and net of cash acquired $42,660, (ii) 204,000 shares of our common stock valued at $1,080,800, (iii) contingent consideration in the form of two unsecured promissory notes in the maximum amount of $1,500,000 and $2,000,000, respectively, plus interest accruing at 6% annually from November 30, 2007, the date of the issuance, payable to the sellers upon the achievement of certain operational and financial targets for December 2007 and for the calendar year 2008, respectively, and (iv) additional earn-out amounts, contingent upon the achievement of certain earnings targets by Rubicon for each of the calendar years 2008-2009. During the fourth quarter of 2007, Rubicon achieved certain 2007 earnings targets established in the purchase agreement, entitling the sellers to the first contingently issuable note of $1,517,753, which was due on January 31, 2008. In accordance with terms of the agreement, a working capital adjustment was computed resulting in an additional amount of $90,141 due to the sellers on January 31, 2008. On January 2, 2008, we entered into a stock purchase agreement with SMLB, Ltd, or SMLB, an Illinois corporation which provides professional construction management services for mission-critical facilities, and each of the stockholders of SMLB, for the acquisition of SMLB. Pursuant to the purchase agreement we acquired 100% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of SMLB for an aggregate consideration consisting of (i) $2,000,000 in cash, subject to certain adjustment to be determined within 60 days of the closing of the acquisition, as provided in the purchase agreement, (ii) an unsecured promissory note for an aggregate amount of $500,000, plus interest accruing at 6% annually from the date of the issuance, (iii) an aggregate of 96,896 shares of common stock of the Company, to be held in escrow pursuant to a certain indemnity escrow agreement, and (iv) additional earn-out amounts, contingent upon the achievement of certain operational and financial targets by SMLB for each of the calendar years 2008 and 2009 and subject to satisfaction of any outstanding indemnification obligations by the sellers. The note referred to above is payable in three years, based on a five-year amortization schedule, with $100,000 plus accrued interest payable on each of January 2, 2009 and January 2, 2010 and the balance of $300,000 plus accrued interest payable on January 2, 2011. 9 Mission-Critical IT Industry IT facilities and other high technology environments are much more complex than standard facilities and require a larger capital investment. Errors and delays in the planning, design, construction or installation of such facilities can involve significant costs. As a result, companies, building owners and managers are increasingly seeking project managers and construction firms with specialized expertise and experience in designing, building and maintaining critical IT infrastructure and systems. Market research indicates growth in overall IT spending and in the mission-critical business arena in particular. According to a 2006 report by the InterUnity Group, an industry market research firm based in Concord, Massachusetts, total information technology spending by the United States Government and the private sector is expected to grow from $1.02 trillion in 2007 to $1.24 trillion in 2011. The mission-critical IT market in particular is growing rapidly. InterUnity Group estimates that total mission-critical IT spending by the United States Government and the private sector will grow from $51.5 billion in 2007 to $91.1 billion in 2011, for an annual compound growth rate of 15.3%. InterUnity Group also estimates that mission-critical IT spending will grow from 5.0% of total IT spending in 2007 to 7.4% in 2011. We intend to pursue opportunities in the growing mission-critical IT market in both the government and private sectors through our single source solution offerings. We believe there are significant barriers to entry for new competitors in the mission-critical IT market, including customer requirements for firms with substantial IT project experience, deep and broad professional and IT construction management offerings and, for homeland defense and intelligence agency work, facility and security clearances. Through our facilities integration services, we have the ability, directly and through subcontractor relationships, to provide all services and coordinate the efforts of all personnel involved in a mission-critical project, to meet crucial occupancy deadlines, and to complete all required services with minimal disruption. We believe energy initiatives are significant to the overall industry with a growing focus on corporate citizenship with regard to the environment and opportunities to increase profitability. We believe the macro trend of rising energy costs adds further incentive to incorporate green initiatives as potential returns to customers are greater, while the payback periods on their investments is shortened. We address this growing trend with a specialized focus on green initiatives and a thorough understanding of LEEDS Certification and its design requirements and their contribution to the environment and potential profitability enhancements. Service Offerings We are focused on becoming involved in facilities integration projects that are in their planning stages. When involved in the initial planning stages of a facilities integration project, we develop a comprehensive project Solutions Path that meets rigorous design and scheduling requirements for the timely delivery of high technology facilities that are critical to the customer’s continuous operations. When involved in later project stages, services are provided on an integrated or individual basis. Project Solutions Path We have developed a five-step project named “Solutions Path” for mission-critical environments. The integrated Solutions Path provides a simple, yet comprehensive, process for program roll-out, and also serves to align project requirements with our capabilities. This Solutions Path incorporates each major phase of a design and construction project, from initial planning and programming, through maintenance and service of equipment. Descriptions of the five phases of the Solutions Path are provided below. 10 Technology Consulting Planning and Programming. This phase represents the initiation of project development and typically includes establishing project goals and a preliminary budget and schedules, setting technical parameters and requirements, and determining project team members and the overall level of effort required of the team. When developing mission-critical facilities, the planning and programming phase is often considered the most important because this is where the project receives its initial emphasis, motivation and direction. Various services are performed during the planning and programming phase, with selection depending upon project mission and scope. Typical planning and programming services include requirements analyses, site selections and comparisons, facility and system reliability assessments and audits, energy efficiency studies space planning, computer hardware planning and configurations, security risk assessment, disaster avoidance and recovery planning, and project budgeting and scheduling. Design and Engineering. During the second phase of the Solutions Path, design and engineering experts on our team apply vital, real-life experience in the engineering of critical environmental, power, communications and security systems. This expertise is the source of precise engineering solutions that directly impacts the unique function, reliability, energy usage and overall cost of the customer’s specialized facility. Design and engineering service offerings typically include critical power and mechanical load calculations, schematic design of electrical, mechanical, communications, fire protection and security systems, mechanical design and engineering, high and medium voltage electrical design and engineering, communications and security systems design and engineering, physical vulnerability assessments, force protection design and bomb blast analyses, fire protection system design and engineering, facility systems equipment selection, and facility commissioning and testing. Construction Management Construction Management. Activities during this phase include detailed preparations required for a successful construction process. Work performed during the construction management phase includes project management, value engineering and design management, bid negotiation, subcontractor pre-qualification and negotiation, long-lead equipment procurement, issuance of equipment and construction contracts, and refinement of project budget and schedule. Installation Management. The fourth phase of the Solutions Path model involves the on-site construction work. During this phase, our project managers mobilize the required expertise for the project, utilizing in-house superintendents and quality control and safety professionals, as well as qualified subcontractors and support personnel, some of which have historically been provided by affiliated entities. Our project managers supervise work by project team members, including all aspects of the following: architecture and construction, electric power systems, heat rejection and cooling, energy management and controls, cooling tower systems, security systems, voice, data and network cabling, fire and life safety systems, and process piping and plumbing systems. Our project managers remain responsible for all aspects of the project until project completion and customer delivery. 11 The installation portion of the project is typically of the longest duration when compared to other project phases. In addition, this portion has the largest number of outside influences that can impact project goals and objectives, such as weather, non-performance of subcontractors, equipment deliveries, unexpected project changes from the owner, and influence from local authorities and utility providers. Therefore, experience, skill and mission focus are critical during the project installation period. Facilities Management Facilities Maintenance and Service. We provide a comprehensive maintenance and service contract designed to insure that the multiple systems critical to sustaining on-line applications in technologically intensive facilities remain operational and functional. Typical services during the facilities maintenance and service phase include overall management of facility maintenance program, on-site staffing of technical engineering positions ( e.g., electricians, HVAC mechanics, control technicians and voice/data technicians), and management of non-technical subcontracted services ( e.g., landscaping, janitorial, pest control, snow removal, carpentry, painting and general maintenance services). We seek to provide on-site maintenance services, not only to gain additional project revenue, but also to obtain hands-on involvement in any new facility planning, design and construction initiatives that the customer undertakes. Strategy Our strategies for growth include the following: · Focus on the Solutions Path. Our past experience in selling project-related services has demonstrated the importance of focusing on the sale of consulting business at the top of the Solutions Path. Focusing on the top of the Solutions Path offers the following advantages applicable to government, government-related and commercial customers: · Develop a customer relationship at the initiation of a project, therefore maximizing the sales opportunity; · Because consulting engagements are less expansive than project-wide engagements, purchase authority often resides at lower levels of management, which increases probability of closure; · Limit exposure to competition since the fee is relatively low and the services are in specialized areas where we can demonstrate our technical depth and expertise in mission-critical facilities to the customer; · Increase the probability of conversion (selling subsequent phases) because the customer is comfortable with the performance and price of initial services; and · Position us on the “customer’s side of the table,” which teams us with the customer on a consolidated mission and distinguishes us from typical contractors and firms associated with equipment suppliers. · Growing Professional Sales Staff. To drive growth in revenues, we have expanded our sales staff to include account executives for existing and future regional sales offices. We continue to pursue account executives and additional sales staff and developed an educational program built around our project execution model. Each sales professional is responsible for achieving specific objectives and is managed closely. · Maintaining and Enhancing Key Alliances. Maintaining key alliances is also crucial to sales development and growth and often provide us with introductions to the customers of our alliance partners. These alliances reside with IT consulting firms, specialty mission-critical engineering firms, application service providers and internet service providers. Key alliance opportunities also reside in other firms within the market sector such as equipment manufacturers, product suppliers, property management firms, developers, IT system integrators and firmware providers. In addition, we seek to maintain alliances and enter into teaming or partnering relationships with minority contracting firms and hub zone companies. These firms are natural alliance partners and can provide us with valuable entry into government contracting relationships. In turn, we can provide these contractors and hub zone companies with valuable mission-critical design, engineering, and contracting experience to which they might not otherwise have access. We have entered into several key strategic alliances with large IT Corporations to provide engineering, design, and construction management services. 12 · Geographic Expansion and Strategic Acquisitions. We believe that expanding our presence in additional markets through establishing regional offices is a key to our future success. Our acquisitions of Comm Site, Innovative, Rubicon, and subsequent to year end, SMLB, expand our presence in the Washington D.C. metro area, Boston, New York/New Jersey, Atlanta, Houston, Miami and Chicago. Our acquisitions have expanded our customer base, allowed us to offer a broader scope of services and supported our current growth in technology consulting projects. In the future, we intend to pursue strategic acquisitions that cost-effectively add new customers, regional coverage, specific federal agency contracting experience, or complementary expertise to accelerate our access to existing or new markets. · Establishing a National Operations Center. A significant part of our strategy for growth in our facilities management services business was to establish and maintain a National Operations Center (“NOC”) to service customers on a nationwide basis. A NOC is a central location for monitoring the customer’s critical infrastructure systems, addressing alarm conditions within these systems, and controlling certain systems via remote interface. Our NOC was completed and began its operation during 2007. · Marketing Initiatives. We have expanded our current localized marketing campaign to a regional and national level. This will involved intensifying the marketing of our consulting and engineering services to private sector end users, major government contractors, and existing and potential alliance partners on regional and national basis through a focused marketing program, involving: · Selected media advertising; · Trade show attendance; · Conducting technical seminars in local target markets; and · Producing a marketing campaign for distribution at a national level. Contracts and Customers Our customers include United States government and homeland defense agencies and private sector businesses that in some cases are the end user of the facility or in other cases are providing a facility to a government end user. We categorize contracts where a government agency is the ultimate end user of the facility as government-related contracts. The price provisions of the contracts we undertake can be grouped into three broad categories: (i) fixed-price, (ii) guaranteed maximum price and (iii) time and materials. In a fixed-price contract, we must fully absorb cost overruns, notwithstanding the difficulty of estimating all of the costs we will incur in performing these contracts and in projecting the ultimate level of revenues that we may achieve. Our failure to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs during the performance of a fixed-price contract may reduce the profitability of a fixed-price contract or cause a loss. In a guaranteed maximum price contract, we share our cost information with the customer and earn a negotiated fee. In addition, a contingency fee is included for changes and errors in pricing. As the project progresses to the point where both the customer and we are comfortable with final pricing of the project, a maximum price is agreed to with savings reverting back to the customer. Due to the fact that the risk is shared with the customer on these projects, the profit margins are less than those earned on other contract types. In a time-and-material contracts, we are reimbursed for labor at fixed hourly rates and for materials used at an agreed upon mark up on cost. Profit margins depend on the negotiated bill rate with the customer less our labor and benefit costs. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, revenues from guaranteed maximum price contracts represented approximately 19.5% and 65.6% of our revenues, respectively. Most government contracts, including our contracts with the federal government, are subject to termination by the government, to government audits and to continued appropriations. 13 Historically, we are not subject to any significant regulation by state, federal or foreign governments. In the future, as we seek to directly contract services with the US government versus perform on a subcontractor basis, we may be subject to audit and oversight of US government agencies. Backlog We believe an indicator of our future performance is our backlog of uncompleted projects under contract or awarded. Our backlog represents our estimate of the anticipated revenue from executed and awarded contracts that have not been completed and that we expect will be recognized as revenues over the life of the contract. Backlog is not a measure defined in generally accepted accounting principles, and our methodology for determining backlog may not be comparable to the methodology used by other companies in determining their backlog. Our backlog is generally recognized under two categories: (1) contracts for which work authorizations have been or are expected to be received on a fixed-price basis, guaranteed maximum price basis and time and materials basis and (2) contracts awarded to us where some, but not all, of the work has not yet been authorized. Our total backlog was approximately $172.9 million as of December 31, 2007. At December 31, 2007, we have authorizations to proceed with work for approximately $32.4 million or 19% of our total backlog of $172.9 million. Additionally, approximately $118 million or 68% of our backlog relates to a single customer at December 31, 2007. We estimate that approximately 50% of our backlog will be recognized during 2008 fiscal year. This estimate is based on the compilation of monthly backlog reports that the project management regularly prepares which present backlog per contract, our management’s estimate of future revenue based on known contracts and historical trends and our projection of the amount of such backlog expected to be recognized in the following 12 months. Our total backlog as of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005 was $20.6 million and $39.7 million, respectively. We adjust backlog to reflect project cancellations, deferrals and revisions in scope and cost (both upward and downward) known at the reporting date; however, future contract modifications or cancellations may increase or reduce backlog and future revenues. We generally do not track and therefore have not disclosed whether the contracts included in our backlog are fully funded, incrementally funded, or unfunded. Our customers may enter into contracts with us for our services; however, authorization for us to perform those services may be dependent on the customer’s ability to finance the project either internally or externally through investors. Most of our customer contracts are terminable at will by the customer consistent with industry practice. As a result, no assurances can be given that the amounts included in backlog will ultimately be realized. Sales and Marketing The marketing approach employed by us emphasizes expertise in IT hardware systems and facilities programming and planning, which enables involvement at the critical early stages in projects where a full range of services are needed. This marketing approach utilizes the Solutions Path and allows the customer to contract for comprehensive facilities integration services or to contract separately for each individual project phase. Our marketing program seeks to capitalize on our industry standing, including our existing relationships, relationships added through acquisitions and our reputation based on our performance on completed projects. We also seek to enhance our name recognition through the use of trade shows, technical seminars, direct mailings, and the media. To drive growth in revenues, we have expanded our sales staff to include regional account executives as well as expanding our technical support group, which includes engineers, estimators and proposal writers. We intend to continue to hire and train sales professionals responsible for defined geographic regions in the United States. We have developed an educational program for account executives and other sales staff built around our project execution model. We are pursing this regional expansion with emphasis placed on geographic areas that have the greatest amount of local mission-critical project potential. In conjunction with these efforts, we are expanding our marketing program from a local to a regional and national level to support our expanded sales efforts and increase our name recognition and market penetration. Maintaining key alliances is also crucial to sales development and growth and often provide us with introductions to the customers of our alliance partners. These alliances reside with IT consulting firms, specialty mission-critical engineering firms, application service providers and internet service providers. Key alliance opportunities also reside in other firms within the market sector such as equipment manufacturers, product suppliers, property management firms, developers, IT system integrators and firmware providers. In addition, we seek to maintain alliances and enter into teaming or partnering relationships with minority contracting firms and hub zone companies. These firms are natural alliance partners and can provide us with valuable entry into government contracting relationships. In turn, we can provide these contractors and hub zone companies with valuable mission-critical design, engineering, and contracting experience to which they might not otherwise have access. We have entered into several key strategic alliances with large IT Corporations to provide engineering, design, and construction management services. The process for acquiring business may require us to participate in a competitive request-for-proposal process, with the primary difference among potential customers being that the process for direct government and government-related customers is significantly more formal and complex than for private sector customers as a result of government procurement rules and regulations that govern the contracting process. Competition The mission-critical IT solutions market is large, fragmented and highly competitive. We compete for contracts based on our strong customer relationships, successful past performance record, significant technical expertise, specialized knowledge and broad service offerings. We often compete against divisions of both the large design contractors and construction contractors, as well as against numerous small- to medium-sized specialized or regional information technology consulting firms. Some of these competitors are large, well-established companies that have broader geographic scope and greater financial and other resources than us. These larger, more established competitors include Washington Group International, Inc. (a division of URS Corporation), Dycom Industries, Inc., Mastec Inc., Hill International Inc., Hewlett Packard Company, Holder Construction Company, Whiting Turner and Clark Construction. Although these large construction and engineering companies have greater financial and other resources, we do not believe they offer as complete of a line of mission-critical IT services as us. We expect competition in the mission-critical IT technology services sector to increase in the future. 14 Executive Officers Set forth below is information as of March 28, 2008, about our executive officers, as determined in accordance with the rules of the SEC. Name Age Position with the Company Harvey L. Weiss 65 Chairman of the Board Thomas P. Rosato 56 Chief Executive Officer and Director Gerard J. Gallagher 51 President, Chief Operating Officer and Director Timothy C. Dec 49 Chief Financial Officer Harvey L. Weiss, age 65, became our Chairman of the Board upon the closing of our acquisition of TSS/Vortech on January 19, 2007. From our inception through the closing of the acquisition, Mr. Weiss had served as our Chief Executive Officer, President and a member of our Board. He has over 35 years of experience in the information technology and security market place. From 2002 to August 1, 2004, Mr. Weiss was the Chief Executive Officer and President of System Detection, Inc., a software security company. From 2000 to 2002, he served as President of Engineering Systems Solutions, Inc., a security and biometrics integration firm. During 1999, Mr. Weiss was the Chief Executive Officer and President of Global Integrity Corporation, a SAIC subsidiary specializing in information security and served as a Director until the company was sold in 2002. From 1996 to 1998, until sold to Network Associates, Inc, Mr. Weiss was President of the Commercial Division, Secretary and Director of Trusted Information Systems, Inc., a NASDAQ-listed security network company. Prior to that time, from 1994 to 1996, Mr. Weiss served as President of Public Sector Worldwide Division for Unisys Corporation. From 1991 to 1993, Mr. Weiss was the Vice President of Sales and the President and Chief Operating Officer of Thinking Machines Corporation, a massively parallel processing company. Prior to that time, he served in various senior capacities in Digital Equipment Corporation. Mr. Weiss serves on the Board of Forterra Systems, Inc., a simulation company, is a member of the Brookings Institution Council, and is a trustee of Capitol College. Mr. Weiss received a Bachelor of Science in Mathematics from the University of Pittsburgh. 15 Thomas P. Rosato, age 56, became a Director and our Chief Executive Officer upon our acquisition of TSS/Vortech on January 19, 2007. Mr. Rosato has over 25 years of experience in mission-critical service businesses. Since 2002, he has served as the co-founder and chairman of TSS and the co-founder and chairman of Vortech. From 1998 to 2001, Mr. Rostato served as the President - Group Maintenance of America/Encompass Services Corporation, National Accounts Division. From 1995 to 1998, he served as the founder and President of Commercial Air, Power & Cable, Inc. From 1980 to 1995, he served in various capacities at Com-Site Enterprises, most recently as Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Rosato started his career in 1973 as a certified public accountant at Coopers & Lybrand. Mr. Rosato received a Bachelor of Science in Accounting from Temple University. Gerard J. Gallagher, age 51, became a Director and our President and Chief Operating Officer upon our acquisition of TSS/Vortech on January 19, 2007. Mr. Gallagher has more than 25 years of experience in mission-critical fields. Since 2002, he has served as the co-founder and President of TSS and the co-founder and President of Vortech. From 1998 to 2001, Mr. Gallagher served as the President of the Total Site Solutions division of Encompass Services Corp. From 1997 to 1998, he served as the President of the Total Site Solutions division of Commercial Air, Power & Cable, Inc. From 1991 to 1997, he served as the Chief Facilities Operations and Security Officer of the International Monetary Fund. From 1980 to 1991, Mr. Gallagher served in various capacities at Com Site International, most recently as Senior Vice President of Engineering and Sales. Mr. Gallagher received a Bachelor of Science in Fire Science from the University of Maryland and a Bachelor of Science in Organizational Management (Summa Cum Laude) from Columbia Union College. Timothy C. Dec, age 49, was appointed as Chief Financial Officer of the Company, effective August 20, 2007. Prior to his appointment and since June 2006, Mr. Dec was the Chief Financial Officer of Presidio Networked Solutions Inc., the nation’s largest independent value-added solutions provider that offers a wide range of Cisco-centric network infrastructure and collaborative solutions. From 1999 until May 2006, Mr. Dec was Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer & Treasurer of Broadwing Corporation, a NASDAQ listed telecommunications company. Broadwing Corp was acquired by Level 3 Inc in 2007. From 1997 to 1999, Mr. Dec was Director of Accounting and Administration for Thermo Trilogy Corporations, a subsidiary of AMEX listed Thermo Electron Company. Earlier in his career, Mr. Dec held finance and accounting related positions at North American Vaccine, Inc. an AMEX listed company engaged in the research, development and manufacturing of vaccines, privately held general contractor Clark Construction and Intertek Services International, LTD, a division of Inchcape Group, a multinational public company based in London, England. Mr. Dec holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Accounting from Mount Saint Mary’s University in Emmitsburg, Maryland, and a Masters of Business Administration from American University in Washington DC. He is a Certified Public Accountant. Our officers employment are subject to the terms and conditions in their respective employment agreements. Employees At December 31, 2007, we had approximately 179 full-time and 5 part-time employees. We have obtained facility clearance from the United States Department of Defense. In addition to the facility clearance, we have successfully cleared approximately one third of our employees, allowing them individual access to restricted projects and facilities. Our future success will depend significantly on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreement and we have not experienced any strikes or work stoppages. We consider our relationship with our employees to be satisfactory. 16 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATED TO OUR RECENT ACQUISITIONS Our financial condition and growth depends upon the successful integration of our acquired businesses. We may not be able to efficiently and effectively integrate acquired operations, and thus may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from such acquisitions. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions that we have completed starting in January 2007 will depend in part upon whether we can integrate our businesses in an efficient and effective manner. Since January 2007, we have acquired, in chronological order, VTC, L.L.C. and Vortech L.L.C., Comm Site of South Florida, Inc., Innovative Power Systems, Inc. and Quality Power Systems, Inc., Rubicon Integration, LLC and in January 2008, we acquired SMLB, Ltd. In the future, we may acquire additional businesses in accordance with our business strategy. The integration of our acquired businesses and any future businesses that we may acquire involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • demands on management related to the increase in our size after the acquisition; • the disruption of ongoing business and the diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of operations; • failure to fully achieve expected synergies and costs savings; • unanticipated impediments in the integration of departments, systems, including accounting systems, technologies, books and records and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards, controls, including internal control over financial reporting required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, procedures and policies; • loss of customers or the failure of customers to contract for incremental services that we expect them to contract; • failure to peform services that are contracted by customers during the integration period; • higher integration costs than anticipated; and • difficulties in the assimilation and retention of highly qualified, experienced employees, many of whom are geographically dispersed. Successful integration of these acquired businesses or operations will depend on our ability to manage these operations, realize opportunities for revenue growth presented by strengthened service offerings and expanded geographic market coverage, obtain better terms from our vendors due to increased buying power, and eliminate redundant and excess costs to fully realize the expected synergies. Because of difficulties in combining geographically distant operations and systems which may not be fully compatible, we may not be able to achieve the financial strength and growth we anticipate from the acquisitions. We cannot be certain that we will realize our anticipated benefits from our acquisitions, or that we will be able to efficiently and effectively integrate the acquired operations as planned. If we fail to integrate the acquired businesses and operations efficiently and effectively or fail to realize the benefits we anticipate, we would be likely to experience material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Certain of our key personnel who joined us as a result of the acquisition of TSS/Vortech are unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company, which may adversely affect our operations, including reducing our revenues and net income, if any. Upon the completion of the acquisition TSS/Vortech, our former Chairman of the Board, C. Thomas McMillen, resigned and became our Vice Chairman, and our former Chief Executive Officer, President and Secretary, Harvey L. Weiss, resigned from those positions and became our Chairman of the Board. Thomas P. Rosato became our Chief Executive Officer, and Gerard J. Gallagher became our President and Chief Operating Officer. Neither Mr. Rosato nor Mr. Gallagher has significant public company experience, and both are unfamiliar with the unique requirements of operating a public company under United States securities laws. Our Chief Financial Officer, Timothy C. Dec, joined us in August 2007. Accordingly, we could be required to expend significant resources to assist our management team with regulatory and stockholder relations issues, which could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues that may adversely affect our operations, including reducing our revenues and net income, if any. 17 If the acquisitions’ benefits do not meet the expectations of financial or industry analysts, the market price of our common stock may decline. The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of our various acquisitions if: · we do not achieve the perceived benefits of each acquisition as rapidly as, or to the extent anticipated by, financial or industry analysts; or · the effect of the acquisitions on our financial results is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts. Accordingly, investors may experience a loss as a result of a decreasing stock price. The Chairman, Vice Chairman and one member of our Board of Directors may have conflicts of interest that could hinder our ability to make acquisitions. One of our growth strategies is to make selective acquisitions of specialty engineering and information technology/networking consulting and system integration companies that focus on mission-critical facilities. The current Vice Chairman of our Board of Directors, Mr. McMillen, is the president, chief executive officer and chairman of the board of Homeland Security Capital Corporation (“HSCC”). HSCC has announced that its intended strategic direction is “to focus on owning and operating small- and mid-sized growth businesses that provide homeland security solutions through innovative technologies to both the public and private sector and to drive growth through management, strategic guidance, capital and financial support, and government marketing expertise.” It is possible that HSCC could be interested in acquiring businesses that we would also be interested in acquiring and that these relationships could hinder our ability to carry out our acquisition strategy. Additionally, our Chairman of the Board, Mr.Weiss, Vice Chairman of the Board, Mr. McMillen, and Director, Mr. Hutchinson, serve as the Co-Chairman of the Board, Co-Chairman of the Board, and Director, respectively, on the Board of Directors at Secure America Acquisition Corporation (Secure America), a blank check Company formed for the purpose of acquiring, or acquiring control of, through a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase or other similar business combination, one or more operating businesses in the homeland security industry. It is possible that Secure America could be interested in acquiring businesses that we would also be interested in acquiring and that these relationships could hinder our ability to carry out our acquisition strategy. Voting control by our executive officers, directors and other affiliates may limit your ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval. Persons who are parties to a voting agreement (Messrs. McMillen, Weiss, Gallagher and Rosato) own approximately 41% of our issued voting stock at December 31, 2007. Moreover, this concentration will increase if additional shares are issued under the employment agreements entered into with Messrs. Rosato and Gallagher or upon conversion of the convertible promissory notes delivered to Messrs. Rosato and Gallagher in connection with TSS/Vortech aquisition. These persons have made certain agreements to vote for each other’s designees to our Board of Directors through the 2008 director elections. Accordingly, they are able to significantly influence the election of directors and, therefore, our policies and direction during the term of the voting agreement. This concentration of ownership and the voting agreement could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their shares of common stock. Actual or potential conflicts of interest are likely to develop between us and Messrs. Rosato and Gallagher. Thomas P. Rosato and Gerard J. Gallagher, the selling members of TSS/Vortech, continue to own significant businesses other than TSS/Vortech that are not owned or controlled by us. We will have an ongoing business relationships with certain of these businesses of the selling members. This will likely create actual or potential conflicts of interest between the selling members, who are executive officers and members of our Board of Directors and thus in a position to influence corporate decisions, and us. 18 We may not have sufficient financial resources to carry out our acquisition strategy; we may need to use our stock to fund acquisitions to a greater extent than we originally intended. In January 2007, we announced a common stock repurchase program. As a result of that program, through December 31, 2007 we had utilized $2,036,015 of cash to purchase 379,075 shares of our common stock at an average price of $5.37 per share. We retired 221,000 of the repurchased shares on June 13, 2007. The repurchase program was suspended during the third quarter of 2007. These stock repurchases reduced the amount of cash available to fund acquisitions. As a result, we may have to incur more debt, or issue more common stock or other equity securities, than would otherwise have been necessary in connection with acquisitions, and we may not have sufficient financial resources to carry out our acquisition strategy to the extent we had initially planned. If third parties bring claims against us or if acquired companies breached any of its representations, warranties or covenants set forth in the purchase agreement, we may not be adequately indemnified for any losses arising therefrom. Although the purchase agreement provides that Messrs. Rosato and Gallagher will indemnify us for losses arising from a breach of the representations, warranties and covenants by TSS/Vortech or Messrs. Rosato and Gallagher set forth in the purchase agreement, such indemnification is limited, in general terms, to an aggregate amount of $5 million and claims may be asserted against Messrs. Rosato and Gallagher only if a claim exceeds $8,000 and the aggregate amount of all claims exceeds $175,000. In addition, with some exceptions, the survival period for claims under the purchase agreement is limited to the 18-month period following the closing of the acquisition. We will be prevented from seeking indemnification for most claims above the aggregate threshold or arising after the applicable survival period. For the Rubicon, Innovative, and subsequent to year end, SMLB, Ltd acquisitions, we are indemnified for any losses arising from a breach of the representations, warranties, and covenants by the sellers through the right to reduce any future contingent consideration earned by the sellers; however, we may not be adequately indemnified for the full value of any loses arising there from. 19 As a result of our acquisitions, we have substantial amounts of goodwill and intangible assets, and changes in future business conditions could cause these assets to become impaired, requiring substantial write-downs that would adversely affect our operating results. Our acquisitions were accounted for as purchases and involved purchase prices well in excess of tangible asset values, resulting in the creation of a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. Since December 31, 2006, we completed the acquisitions of TSS/Vortech, Comm Site, Innovative, Rubicon, and subsequent to year end, SMLB and we plan to continue acquiring businesses if and when opportunities arise, further increasing our goodwill and purchased intangibles amount. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we do not amortize goodwill and intangible assets acquired in a purchase business combination that are determined to have indefinite useful lives, but instead review them annually (or more frequently if impairment indicators arise) for impairment. To the extent we determine that such an asset has been impaired, we will write-down its carrying value on our balance sheet and book an impairment charge in our statement of operations. We amortize intangible assets with estimable useful lives over their respective estimated useful lives to their estimated residual values, and also review them for impairment. If, as a result of acquisitions or otherwise, the amount of intangible assets being amortized increases, so will our depreciation and amortization charges in future periods. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers. We derive and believe that we will continue to derive in the near term, a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers. To the extent that any significant customer uses less of our services or terminates its relationship with us, our revenues could decline significantly, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, we had one large project with our major real estate investment trust (REIT) customer, Corporate Office Properties Trust, which is providing mission-critical space to a government end user and which comprised approximately 12.0%, 63.0%, and 78.0%, respectively, of our revenues. Our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 58.5% and 80.4% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Most of our contracts may be canceled on short notice, so our revenue and potential profits are not guaranteed. Most of our contracts are cancelable on short notice by the customer either at its convenience or upon our default. If one of our customers terminates a contract at its convenience, then we typically are able to recover only costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to termination, which could prevent us from recognizing all of our potential revenue and profit from that contract. If one of our customers terminates the contract due to our default, we could be liable for excess costs incurred by the customer in re-procuring services from another source, as well as other costs. Many of our contracts, including our service agreements, are periodically open to public bid. We may not be the successful bidder on its existing contracts that are re-bid. We also provide an increasing portion of our services on a non-recurring, project-by-project basis. We could experience a reduction in our revenue, profitability and liquidity if: · our customers cancel a significant number of contracts; · we fails to win a significant number of its existing contracts upon re-bid; or · we complete the required work under a significant number of our non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects. 20 Our backlog varies and is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations and is, therefore, not guaranteed to be recognized as revenue. We cannot assure that the revenues attributed to uncompleted projects under contract will be realized or, if realized, will result in profits. Included in our backlog is the maximum amount of all uncompleted indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity (“ID/IQ”) or similar contracts and task order contracts, or a lesser amount if we do not reasonably expect to be issued task orders for the maximum amount of such contracts. We perform services only when purchase orders are issued under the associated contracts. The backlog amounts are estimates, subject to change or cancellation, and accordingly, the actual customer purchase orders to perform work may vary in scope and amount from the backlog amounts. Accordingly, we can not provide any assurance that we will in fact be awarded the maximum amount of such contracts or be awarded any amount at all. Our backlog as of December 31, 2007 was approximately $172.9 million. The majority of our projects are accounted for on the percentage-of-completion method, and if actual results vary from the assumptions made in estimating percentage-of-completion, our revenue and income could be reduced. We generally recognize revenue on our projects on the percentage-of-completion method. Under the percentage-of-completion method, we record revenue as work on the contract progresses. The cumulative amount of revenue recorded on a contract at a specified point in time is that percentage of total estimated revenue that incurred costs to date bear to estimated total contract costs. The percentage-of-completion method therefore relies on estimates of total expected contract costs. Contract revenue and total cost estimates are reviewed and revised periodically as the work progresses. Adjustments are reflected in contract revenue in the fiscal period when such estimates are revised. Estimates are based on management’s reasonable assumptions and experience, but are only estimates. Variation between actual results and estimates on a large project or on a number of smaller projects could be material. We immediately recognize the full amount of the estimated loss on a contract when our estimates indicate such a loss. Any such loss would reduce our revenue and income. We submit change orders to our customers for work we perform beyond the scope of some of our contracts. If our customers do not approve these change orders, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. We typically submit change orders under some of our contracts for payment of work performed beyond the initial contractual requirements. The applicable customers may not approve or may contest these change orders and we cannot assure you that these claims will be approved in whole, in part or at all. If these claims are not approved, our net income and results of operations could be adversely impacted. We may not accurately estimate the costs associated with its services provided under fixed-price contracts, which could impair our financial performance. A portion of our revenue is derived from fixed price contracts. Under these contracts, we set the price of our services and assume the risk that the costs associated with our performance may be greater than we anticipated. Our profitability is therefore dependent upon our ability to estimate accurately the costs associated with our services. These costs may be affected by a variety of factors, such as lower than anticipated productivity, conditions at the work sites differing materially from what was anticipated at the time we bid on the contract, and higher than expected costs of materials and labor. Certain agreements or projects could have lower margins than anticipated or losses if actual costs for contracts exceed our estimates, which could reduce our profitability and liquidity. Failure to properly manage projects may result in costs or claims. Our engagements often involve relatively large scale, highly complex projects. The quality of our performance on such projects depends in large part upon our ability to manage the customer relationship, to manage effectively the project and to deploy appropriate resources, including third-party contractors and our own personnel, in a timely manner. Any defects or errors or failure to meet customers’ expectations could result in claims for substantial damages against us. We currently maintain comprehensive general liability, umbrella, professional liability insurance policies. We cannot be certain that the insurance coverage we carry to cover such claims will be adequate to protect us from the full impact of such claims. Moreover, in certain instances, we guarantee customers that we will complete a project by a scheduled date or that the project will achieve certain performance standards. If the project experiences a performance problem, we may not be able to recover the additional costs we will incur, which could exceed revenues realized from a project. Finally, if we underestimate the resources or time we need to complete a project with capped or fixed fees, our operating results could be seriously harmed. 21 We may choose, or be required, to pay our subcontractors even if our customers do not pay, or delay paying, us for the related services. We use subcontractors to perform portions of our services and to manage work flow. In some cases, we pay our subcontractors before our customers pay us for the related services. If we choose, or are required, to pay our subcontractors for work performed for customers who fail to pay, or delay paying us for the related work, we could experience a decrease in profitability and liquidity. We operate in a highly competitive industry, which could reduce our growth opportunities, revenue and operating results. The mission-critical IT industry in which we operate is highly competitive. We often compete with other IT consulting and integration companies, including several that are large domestic companies that may have financial, technical and marketing resources that exceed our own. Our competitors may develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are equal or superior in both price and quality to our services, and we may not be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position. Although our customers currently outsource a significant portion of these services to us and our competitors, we can offer no assurance that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource specialty contracting services to us in the future. The industries we serve have experienced and may continue to experience rapid technological, structural and competitive changes that could reduce the need for our services and adversely affect our revenues. The mission-critical IT industry is characterized by rapid technological change, intense competition and changing consumer and data center needs. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from customers in the mission-critical IT industry. New technologies, or upgrades to existing technologies by customers, could reduce the need for our services and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Improvements in existing technology may allow companies to improve their networks without physically upgrading them. Reduced demand for our services or a loss of a significant customer could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. 22 An economic downturn or reduced homeland security related capital expenditures could result in a decrease in demand for our services. If federal, state or local government or private enterprise spending on homeland security related capital expenditures decreases, the demand for services like those provided by us would likely decline. This decrease could reduce our opportunity for growth, increase our marketing and sales costs, and reduce the prices we can charge for services, which could reduce our revenue and operating results. We may be unable to obtain sufficient bonding capacity to support certain service offerings. Some of our contracts require performance and surety bonds. Bonding capacity for construction projects has become increasingly difficult to obtain, and bonding companies are denying or restricting coverage to an increasing number of contractors. Companies that have been successful in renewing or obtaining coverage have sometimes been required to post additional collateral to secure the same amount of bonds which would reduce availability under any credit facility. We may not be able to maintain a sufficient level of bonding capacity in the future, which could preclude us from being able to bid for certain contracts and successfully contract with certain customers. In addition, even if we are able to successfully renew or obtain performance or payment bonds in the future, we may be required to post letters of credit in connection with the bonds. We may be unable to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel; the loss of any of our key executive officers may adversely affect our business. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled, knowledgeable, sophisticated and qualified managerial, professional and technical personnel. Our business involves the development of tailored solutions for customers, a process that relies heavily upon the expertise and services of employees. Accordingly, our employees are one of our most valuable resources. Competition for skilled personnel, especially those with security clearance, is intense in our industry. Recruiting and training these personnel require substantial resources. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could increase our costs of performing our contractual obligations, reduce our ability to efficiently satisfy our customers’ needs, limit our ability to win new business and constrain our future growth. Our business is managed by a small number of key executive officers, including Mr. Weiss, our Chairman, Mr. McMillen, our Vice Chairman, Mr. Rosato, our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Gallagher, our President and Chief Operating Officer and Mr. Dec, our Chief Financial Officer. The loss of any of these key executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business. A portion of our business depends upon obtaining and maintaining required security clearances, and our failure to do so could result in termination of certain of our contracts or cause us to be unable to bid or rebid on certain contracts. Some United States government projects require our employees to maintain various levels of security clearances, and we may be required to maintain certain facility security clearances complying with United States government requirements. Obtaining and maintaining security clearances for employees involve a lengthy process, and it is difficult to identify, recruit and retain employees who already hold security clearances. If our employees are unable to obtain or retain security clearances or if such employees who hold security clearances terminate their employment, the customer whose work requires cleared employees could terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon expiration. To the extent we are not able to engage employees with the required security clearances for a particular contract, we may not be able bid on or win new contracts, or effectively re-bid on expiring contracts, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, we expect that some of the contracts on which we will bid will require us to demonstrate our ability to obtain facility security clearances and perform work with employees who hold specified types of security clearances. A facility security clearance is an administrative determination that a particular facility is eligible for access to classified information or an award of a classified contract. Although contracts may be awarded prior to the issuance of a facility security clearance, in such cases the contractor is processed for facility security clearance at the appropriate level and must meet the eligibility requirements for access to classified information. A contractor or prospective contractor must meet certain eligibility requirements before it can be processed for facility security clearance. Our ability to obtain and maintain facility security clearances has a direct impact on our ability to compete for and perform United States government projects, the performance of which requires access to classified information. 23 Our failure to comply with the regulations of the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration and other state and local agencies that oversee safety compliance could reduce our revenue, profitability and liquidity. The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended, or OSHA, establishes certain employer responsibilities, including maintenance of a workplace free of recognized hazards likely to cause death or serious injury, compliance with standards promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and various record keeping, disclosure and procedural requirements. Various standards, including standards for notices of hazards, safety in excavation and demolition work, may apply to our operations. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in the ordinary course of our business in complying with OSHA and other state and local laws and regulations. Our quarterly revenue, operating results and profitability will vary. Our revenue, operating results and profitability may fluctuate significantly and unpredictably in the future. In particular, the changes in contract mix that is inherent to our business may significantly affect our results. Factors that may contribute to the variability of our revenue, operating results or profitability include: · Fluctuations in revenue earned on contracts; · Commencement, completion and termination of contracts, especially contracts relating to our major customers; · Declines in backlog that are not replaced; · Additions and departures of key personnel; · Strategic decisions by us and our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments and changes in business strategy; · Contract mix and the extent of subcontractor use; and · Any seasonality of our business. Therefore, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. Our quarterly operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which in turn may have an adverse affect on the market price of our common stock. If we are unable to engage appropriate subcontractors or if our subcontractors fail to perform their contractual obligations, our performance as a prime contractor and ability to obtain future business could be materially and adversely impacted. Our contract performance may involve the engagement of subcontracts to other companies upon which we rely to perform all or a portion of the work we are obligated to deliver to our customers. Our inability to find and engage appropriate subcontractors or a failure by one or more of our subcontractors to satisfactorily deliver on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies and/or perform the agreed-upon services may materially and adversely affect our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor. 24 In extreme cases, a subcontractor’s performance deficiency could result in the customer terminating the contract for default with us. A default termination could expose us to liability for excess costs of reprocurement by the customer and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and task orders. If we are unable to manage our growth, our business may be adversely affected. Sustaining our historical growth may place significant demands on our management, as well as on our administrative, operational and financial resources. If we sustain significant growth, we must improve our operational, financial and management information systems and expand, motivate and manage our workforce. If we are unable to do so, or if new systems that we implement to assist in managing any future growth do not produce the expected benefits, our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND OUR EXPERIENCE AS A PUBLIC COMPANY Because we do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, for use in the operations and expansion of our business. As a result, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination as to the declaration and payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on factors our board of directors deems relevant, including, among others, our results of operations, financial condition and cash requirements, business prospects, and the terms of our credit facilities and other financing arrangements. Accordingly, realization of a gain on stockholders’ investments will depend on the appreciation of the price of our common stock. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders purchased their shares. The significant number of our outstanding warrants and options to purchase our shares of common stock may place a ceiling on, or otherwise adversely affect, the value of our common stock. We have 17,810,300 outstanding warrants and options to purchase shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $5.20 per share, with weighted average remaining life of 1.65 years and only 12,089,221 outstanding shares of common stock as of February 29, 2008. Our warrants represent a very significant market overhang that may limit the value of our common stock, at least in the near term and unless and until we can substantially grow our business. If our initial stockholders and Messrs. Rosato and Gallagher exercise their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our stockholders that acquired shares of common stock prior to our initial public offering are entitled to demand that we register the resale of their shares of common stock in certain circumstances. If our initial stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of common stock, then there will be an additional 1,750,000 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market. We have also granted registration rights to the selling members of TSS/Vortech, who received 2,534,988 shares of our common stock upon closing of the acquisition and who may receive, in the aggregate, up to $10,000,000 in additional shares of our common stock under the terms of their employment agreements. The contingently issuable shares expire on July 13, 2008. The presence of this additional number of shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. If we are unable to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock underlying our warrants, our warrants may be worthless. Our warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless, at the time a holder seeks to exercise such warrant, a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrant is current and the common stock has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. Under the terms of the warrant agreement between Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as warrant agent, and us, we have agreed to use our reasonable best efforts to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of our warrants until the expiration of our warrants. However, we cannot assure warrant holders that we will be able to do so. The warrant agreement does not provide that we are required to net-cash settle the warrants if we are unable to maintain a current prospectus. If the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is not current, or if the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside, our warrants may not be exercisable before they expire. Thus, our warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for our warrants may be limited or non-existent and the warrants may expire worthless. 25 The warrant agreement governing our warrants permits us to redeem the warrants after they become exercisable, and it is possible that we could redeem the warrants at a time when a prospectus is not current, resulting in the warrant holder receiving less than fair value of the warrant or the underlying common stock. Under the warrant agreement governing our outstanding warrants, we have the right to redeem outstanding warrants, at any time after they become exercisable and prior to their expiration, at the price of $0.01 per warrant, provided that the last sales price of our common stock is at least $8.50 per share on each of 20 trading days within any 30 trading day period ending on the third business day prior to the date on which notice of redemption is given. The warrant agreement does not require, as a condition to giving notice of redemption, that we have in effect a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of our warrants. Thus, it is possible that we could issue a notice of redemption of the warrants at a time when holders of our warrants are unable to exercise their warrants and thereafter immediately resell the underlying common stock under a current prospectus. Under such circumstances, rather than face redemption at a nominal price per warrant, warrant holders could be forced to sell the warrants or the underlying common stock for less than fair value. Increased scrutiny of financial disclosure could adversely affect investor confidence and any restatement of earnings could increase litigation risks and limit our ability to access the capital markets. Congress, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, other regulatory authorities and the media are intensely scrutinizing a number of financial reporting issues and practices. If we were required to restate our financial statements as a result of a determination that we had incorrectly applied generally accepted accounting principles, that restatement could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets or the trading price of our securities. The recent scrutiny regarding financial reporting has also resulted in an increase in litigation. There can be no assurance that any such litigation against us would not materially adversely affect our business or the trading price of our securities. Prior to the acquisition of TSS/Vortech, we did not have operations, and TSS/Vortech had never operated as a public company. Fulfilling our obligations incident to being a public company will be expensive and time consuming. Prior to the acquisition of TSS/Vortech, both we, as a company without operations, and TSS/Vortech, as a private company, had maintained relatively small finance and accounting staffs. We have engaged a firm to perform internal audit services and assist with the effort to remediate the weaknesses described below and be compliant with Section 404. We have maintained limited disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting as required under the federal securities laws with respect to our limited activities prior to the acquisition, but we have not been required to maintain and establish such disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls as are required with respect to a business such as TSS/Vortech with substantial operations following the acquisition. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, as well as the rules of NASDAQ, we must implement additional internal and disclosure control procedures and corporate governance practices and adhere to a variety of reporting requirements and complex accounting rules. Compliance with these obligations will require significant management time, place significant additional demands on our finance and accounting staff and on our financial, accounting and information systems, and increase our insurance, legal and financial compliance costs. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting for fiscal 2007 and beyond and will require an independent registered public accounting firm to report on our assessment as to the effectiveness of these controls for fiscal 2008 and beyond. Any delays or difficulty in satisfying these requirements could adversely affect our future results of operations and our stock price. 26 Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with an established internal control framework and to report on our conclusion as to the effectiveness of our internal controls for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007 and subsequent years. In connection with this evaluation, we retained internal audit services to further enhance our internal control environment. It will also require an independent registered public accounting firm to test, evaluate and report on the completeness of our assessment for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2008 and subsequent years. It may cost us more than we expect to comply with these control- and procedure-related requirements. Through December 31, 2006, we had no operations, no full-time personnel and very few personnel of any kind. Our activities from inception in late 2005 and into 2006 focused on completing our initial public offering, identifying acquisition candidates and then completing the acquisition of TSS/Vortech on January 19, 2007. As of December 31, 2007, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our “disclosure controls and procedures,” as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were ineffective at that time for the purpose of ensuring that the information required to be disclosed in our reports filed with the SEC under the Exchange Act is (1) recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and (2) is accumulated and communicated to our management, including the Chief Executive Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. In January 2007, we acquired TSS/Vortech and re-evaluated our internal control process during 2007 based on the framework in "Internal Control-Interpreted Framework" issued by Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). As a result of this re-evaluation, we have determined that our internal control over financial reporting is ineffective as of December 31, 2007. We had neither the resources, nor the personnel, to provide for an adequate internal control environment. The following material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting were noted at December 31, 2007: (i) we did not have the ability to segregate duties; (ii) we lacked the formal documentation of policies and procedures that were in place; (iii) we lacked adequate financial personnel; (iv) we lacked general computer controls and adequate procedures involving change management, and; (v) controls are inadequate to reasonably assume compliance with generally accepted accounting principles related to revenue. We have begun to address the internal control weaknesses summarized above beginning in the first quarter of 2008, with the goal of eliminating such deficiencies by the end of 2008. We are working with a certified public accounting firm to serve as our internal auditors to further enhance our internal control environment and a Chief Financial Officer has been with the Company since August 20, 2007. The acquisitions of TSS/Vortech will require the development of more robust disclosure controls and procedures, which we are currently developing. Management will continue to monitor, evaluate and test the operating effectiveness of these controls during 2008. This Annual Report on Form 10-K does not include an attestation report of our registered public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. Management’s report was not subject to attestation by our registered public accounting firm pursuant to temporary rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission that permit the company to provide only management’s report in this annual report. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 