Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, the following are important factors which could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. If there are changes in the rates or methods of government reimbursements for our services, our net operating revenues and profitability could decline. Approximately 46% and 47% of our net operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 and the year ended December 31, 2009, respectively, came from the highly regulated federal Medicare program. In recent years, through legislative and regulatory actions, the federal government has made substantial changes to various payment systems under the Medicare program. President Obama has proposed comprehensive reforms to the healthcare system, including changes to the methods for, and amounts of, Medicare reimbursement. Reforms or other changes to these payment systems, including modifications to the conditions on qualification for payment, bundling payments to cover both acute and post-acute care or the imposition of enrollment limitations on new providers, may be proposed or could be adopted, either by the U.S. Congress or by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or “CMS.” If revised regulations are adopted, the availability, methods and rates of Medicare reimbursements for services of the type furnished at our facilities could change. We cannot predict what form healthcare reform will take, or if significant healthcare reform in the near term will take place at all. Some of these changes and proposed changes could adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. In addition, there can be no assurance that any increases in Medicare reimbursement rates established by CMS will fully reflect increases in our operating costs. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry, and changes in regulations, new interpretations of existing regulations or violations of regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions that reduce our net operating revenues and profitability. The healthcare industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to: • facility and professional licensure, including certificates of need; • conduct of operations, including financial relationships among healthcare providers, Medicare fraud and abuse and physician self-referral; • addition of facilities and services and enrollment of newly developed facilities in the Medicare program; • payment for services; and • safeguarding protected health information. Both federal and state regulatory agencies inspect, survey and audit our facilities to review our compliance with these laws and regulations. While our facilities intend to comply with existing licensing, Medicare certification requirements and accreditation standards, there can be no assurance that these regulatory authorities will determine that all applicable requirements are fully met at any given time. In recent years, some regulatory agencies inspecting our facilities have applied these requirements and standards more strictly. A determination by any of these regulatory authorities that a facility is not in compliance with these requirements could lead to the imposition of requirements that the facility takes corrective action, assessment of fines and penalties, or loss of licensure, Medicare certification or accreditation. These consequences could have an adverse effect on our company. In addition, there have been heightened coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts by both federal and state government agencies relating to the healthcare industry. The ongoing investigations relate to, among other things, various referral practices, cost reporting, billing practices, physician ownership and joint ventures involving hospitals. In the future, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject us to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, 29 Table of Contents services and capital expenditure programs. These changes may increase our operating expenses and reduce our operating revenues. If we fail to comply with these extensive laws and government regulations, we could become ineligible to receive government program reimbursement, suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. In addition, we could be forced to expend considerable resources responding to any related investigation or other enforcement action. During July 2009, we received a subpoena from the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services seeking various documents concerning our financial relationships with certain physicians practicing at our hospitals in Columbus, Ohio. We do not know whether the subpoena has been issued in connection with a lawsuit under the qui tam provisions of the federal False Claims Act or in connection with possible civil, criminal or administrative proceedings by the government. We have produced documents in response to the subpoena and intend to fully cooperate with this investigation. At this time, we are unable to predict the timing and outcome of this matter. See “Legal Proceedings” and “Business — Government Regulations.” Expiration of the moratorium imposed on certain federal regulations otherwise applicable to long term acute care hospitals operated as “hospitals within hospitals” or as “satellites” will have an adverse effect on our future net operating revenues and profitability. On August 11, 2004, CMS published final regulations applicable to long term acute care hospitals that are operated as “hospitals within hospitals” or as “satellites.” We collectively refer to hospitals within hospitals and satellites as “HIHs,” and we refer to the CMS final regulations as the “final regulations.” HIHs are separate hospitals located in space leased from, and located in or on the same campus of, another hospital. We refer to such other hospitals as “host” hospitals. Effective for hospital cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2004, the final regulations, subject to certain exceptions, provide lower rates of reimbursement to HIHs for those Medicare patients admitted from their host hospitals that are in excess of a specified percentage threshold. For HIHs opened after October 1, 2004, the Medicare admissions threshold has been established at 25% except for HIHs located in rural areas or co-located with an “MSA dominant” hospital or single urban hospital (as defined by the current regulations) in which cases the percentage is no more than 50%, nor less than 25%. Certain grandfathered HIHs were initially excluded from the Medicare admission threshold in the August 11, 2004 final regulations. Grandfathered HIHs refer to certain HIHs that were in existence on or before September 30, 1995, and grandfathered satellite facilities refer to satellites of grandfathered HIHs that were in existence on or before September 30, 1999. For HIHs that meet specified criteria and were in existence as of October 1, 2004, including all but two of our then existing grandfathered HIHs, the Medicare admissions thresholds were phased in over a four year period starting with hospital cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2004, as follows: (1) for discharges during the cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 2004 and before October 1, 2005, the Medicare admissions threshold was the Fiscal 2004 Percentage (as defined below) of Medicare discharges admitted from the host hospital; (2) for discharges during the cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 2005 and before October 1, 2006, the Medicare admissions threshold was the lesser of the Fiscal 2004 Percentage of Medicare discharges admitted from the host hospital or 75%; (3) for discharges during the cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 2006 and before October 1, 2007, the Medicare admissions threshold was the lesser of the Fiscal 2004 Percentage of Medicare discharges admitted from the host hospital or 50%; and (4) for discharges during cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2007, the Medicare admissions threshold is 25%. The Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007, or the “SCHIP Extension Act,” (as amended by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, the “ARRA”) has limited the application of the Medicare admission threshold on HIHs in existence on October 1, 2004 and subject to the four year phase in described above. For these HIHs, the admission threshold is no lower than 50% for a three year period to commence on a long term acute care hospital’s, or “LTCH’s,” first cost reporting period to begin on or after October 1, 2007. Under the SCHIP Extension Act, for HIHs located in rural areas the percentage threshold is no more than 75% for the same three year period. For HIHs that are co-located with MSA dominant hospitals or single urban hospitals, the percentage threshold is no more than 75% during the same three year period or the percentage of total Medicare discharges in the MSA in which the hospital is located that are from the co-located hospital. In the 2008 rate year final rule, CMS applied the 30 Table of Contents Medicare admissions threshold to admissions to grandfathered HIHs and grandfathered satellites from co-located hospitals. The SCHIP Extension Act delays application of the admissions threshold on grandfathered HIHs for a three year period commencing on the first cost reporting period beginning on or after July 1, 2007. The ARRA limits application of the admission threshold to no more than 50% of Medicare admissions to grandfathered satellites from a co-located hospital for a three year period commencing on the first cost reporting period beginning on or after July 1, 2007. As of December 31, 2009, we owned 65 LTCH HIHs; four of these HIHs were subject to a maximum 25% Medicare admission threshold, 19 of these HIHs were co-located with a MSA dominate hospital or single urban hospital and were subject to a Medicare admission threshold of no more than 75%, 38 of these HIHs were subject to a maximum 50% Medicare admissions threshold, two of these HIHs were located in a rural area and were subject to a maximum 75% Medicare admission threshold, and two of these HIHs were grandfathered HIHs and not subject to a Medicare admission threshold. With respect to any HIH, “Fiscal 2004 Percentage” means the percentage of all Medicare patients discharged by such HIH during its cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 2003 and before October 1, 2004 who were admitted to such HIH from its host hospital. In no event, however, is the Fiscal 2004 Percentage less than 25%. Because these rules are complex and are based on the volume of Medicare admissions from our host hospitals as a percent of our overall Medicare admissions, we cannot predict with any certainty the impact on our future net operating revenues of compliance with these regulations. However, after the expiration of the three year moratorium provided by the SCHIP Extension Act, we expect many of our HIHs will experience an adverse financial impact beginning for their cost reporting periods on or after October 1, 2010, when the Medicare admissions thresholds decline to 25%. Expiration of the moratorium imposed on certain federal regulations otherwise applicable to long term acute care hospitals operated as free-standing or grandfathered “hospitals within hospitals” or grandfathered “satellites” will have an adverse effect on our future net operating revenues and profitability. All Medicare payments to our long term acute care hospitals are made in accordance with a prospective payment system specifically applicable to long term acute care hospitals, referred to as “LTCH-PPS.” On May 1, 2007, CMS published its annual payment rate update for the 2008 LTCH-PPS rate year, or RY 2008. We refer to such rate update as the May 2007 final rule. The May 2007 final rule makes several changes to LTCH-PPS payment methodologies and amounts during RY 2008. As described below, however, many of these changes have been postponed for a three year period by the SCHIP Extension Act. For cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2007, the May 2007 final rule expanded the current Medicare HIH admissions threshold to apply to Medicare patients admitted from any individual hospital. Previously, the admissions threshold was applicable only to Medicare HIH admissions from hospitals co-located with an LTCH or satellite of an LTCH. Under the May 2007 final rule, free-standing LTCHs and grandfathered LTCH HIHs are subject to the Medicare admission thresholds, as well as HIHs that admit Medicare patients from non-co-located hospitals. To the extent that any LTCH’s or LTCH satellite facility’s discharges that are admitted from an individual hospital (regardless of whether the referring hospital is co-located with the LTCH or LTCH satellite) exceed the applicable percentage threshold during a particular cost reporting period, the payment rate for those discharges is subject to a downward payment adjustment. Cases admitted in excess of the applicable threshold are reimbursed at a rate comparable to that under general acute care inpatient prospective payment system, or “IPPS.” IPPS rates are generally lower than LTCH-PPS rates. Cases that reach outlier status in the discharging hospital do not count toward the limit and are paid under LTCH-PPS. The SCHIP Extension Act, as amended, postponed the application of the percentage threshold to free-standing LTCHs and grandfathered HIHs for a three year period commencing on an LTCH’s first cost reporting period on or after July 1, 2007. However, the SCHIP Extension Act did not postpone the application of the percentage threshold, or the transition period stated above, to Medicare patients discharged from an LTCH HIH or satellite that were admitted from a non-co-located hospital. In addition, the SCHIP Extension Act, as interpreted by CMS, did not provide relief from the application of the threshold for patients admitted from a co-located hospital to certain non-grandfathered HIHs. Of the 88 long term acute care hospitals we owned as of December 31, 2009, 23 were operated as free-standing hospitals and two qualified as grandfathered LTCH HIHs. Because these rules are complex and are based on the 31 Table of Contents volume of Medicare admissions from other referring hospitals as a percent of our overall Medicare admissions, we cannot predict with any certainty the impact on our future net operating revenues of compliance with these regulations. However, if the May 2007 rule is applied as currently written, there will be an adverse financial impact to the net operating revenues and profitability of many of these hospitals for cost reporting periods on or after July 1, 2010 when the Medicare admissions thresholds go into effect for free-standing hospitals. The moratorium on the Medicare certification of new long term care hospitals and beds in existing long term care hospitals will limit our ability to increase long term acute care hospital bed capacity, expand into new areas or increase services in existing areas we serve. The SCHIP Extension Act imposed a three year moratorium beginning on December 29, 2007 on the establishment and classification of new LTCHs, LTCH satellite facilities and LTCH beds in existing LTCH or satellite facilities. The moratorium does not apply to LTCHs that, before December 29, 2007, (1) began the qualifying period for payment under the LTCH-PPS, (2) had a written agreement with an unrelated party for the construction, renovation, lease or demolition for a LTCH and had expended at least 10% of the estimated cost of the project or $2,500,000 or (3) had obtained an approved certificate of need. The moratorium also does not apply to an increase in beds in an existing hospital or satellite facility if the LTCH is located in a state where there is only one other LTCH and the LTCH requests an increase in beds following the closure or the decrease in the number of beds of the other LTCH. Since we may still acquire LTCHs that were in existence prior to December 29, 2007, we do not expect this moratorium to materially impact our strategy to expand by acquiring additional LTCHs if such LTCHs can be acquired at attractive valuations. This moratorium, however, may still otherwise adversely affect our ability to increase long term acute care bed capacity, expand into new areas or increase bed capacity in existing areas we serve. Government implementation of recent changes to Medicare’s method of reimbursing our long term acute care hospitals will reduce our future net operating revenues and profitability. The May 2007 final rule changed the payment methodology for Medicare patients with a length of stay less than or equal to five-sixths of the geometric average length of stay for each long term care diagnosis-related group, or “LTC-DRG” (also referred to as “short-stay outlier” or “SSO” cases). Under this methodology, as a patient’s length of stay increases, the percentage of the per diem amount based upon the IPPS component decreases and the percentage based on the LTC-DRG component increases. For the three year period beginning on December 29, 2007, the SCHIP Extension Act delays the SSO policy changes made in the May 2007 final rule. In an interim final rule dated May 6, 2008, CMS revised the regulations to provide that the change in the SSO policy adopted in the RY 2008 annual payment update does not apply for a three year period beginning with discharges occurring on or after December 29, 2007 and before December 29, 2010. The implementation of the payment methodology for short-stay outliers discharged after December 29, 2010 will reduce our future net operating revenues and profitability. A long term acute care hospital is paid a pre-determined fixed amount for Medicare patients under LTCH-PPS depending upon the LTC-DRG to which each patient is assigned. LTCH-PPS includes special payment policies that adjust the payments for some patients based on a variety of factors. On May 12, 2006, CMS published its final annual payment rate updates for the 2007 LTCH-PPS rate year. The May 2006 final rule made several changes to LTCH-PPS payment methodologies and amounts. For discharges occurring on or after July 1, 2006, the rule changed the payment methodology for SSO cases. Payment for these patients was previously based on the lesser of (1) 120% of the cost of the case, (2) 120% of the LTC-DRG specific per diem amount multiplied by the patient’s length of stay or (3) the full LTC-DRG payment. The May 2006 final rule modified the limitation in clause (1) above to reduce payment for SSO cases to 100% (rather than 120%) of the cost of the case. The final rule also added a fourth limitation, capping payment for SSO cases at a per diem rate derived from blending 120% of the LTC-DRG specific per diem amount with a per diem rate based on the general acute care hospital IPPS. Under this methodology, as a patient’s length of stay increases, the percentage of the per diem amount based upon the IPPS component decreases and the percentage based on the LTC-DRG component increases. On May 1, 2007, CMS published its final annual payment rate updates for the 2008 LTCH-PPS rate year. The May 2007 final rule further revised the payment adjustment for SSO cases. Beginning with discharges on or after July 1, 2007, for cases with a length of stay that is less than the average length of stay plus one standard deviation for 32 Table of Contents the same diagnosis-related group, or “DRG,” under IPPS, referred to as the so-called “IPPS comparable threshold,” the rule effectively lowered the LTCH payment to a rate based on the general acute care hospital IPPS. SSO cases with covered lengths of stay that exceed the IPPS comparable threshold would continue to be paid under the SSO payment policy described above under the May 2006 final rule. Cases with a covered length of stay less than or equal to the IPPS comparable threshold and less than five-sixths of the geometric average length of stay for that LTC-DRG are paid at an amount comparable to the IPPS per diem. As previously stated, the SCHIP Extension Act delays the SSO policy changes made in the May 2007 final rule for the three year period beginning on December 29, 2007. If our long term acute care hospitals fail to maintain their certifications as long term acute care hospitals or if our facilities operated as HIHs fail to qualify as hospitals separate from their host hospitals, our net operating revenues and profitability may decline. We operate 89 long term acute care hospitals, 88 of which are currently certified by Medicare as long term acute care hospitals and one which is in its demonstration period. Long term acute care hospitals must meet certain conditions of participation to enroll in, and seek payment from, the Medicare program as a long term acute care hospital, including, among other things, maintaining an average length of stay for Medicare patients in excess of 25 days. Similarly, our HIHs must meet conditions of participation in the Medicare program, which include additional criteria establishing separateness from the hospital with which the HIH shares space. If our long term acute care hospitals or HIHs fail to meet or maintain the standards for certification as long term acute care hospitals, they will receive payment under the general acute care hospitals IPPS which is generally lower than payment under the system applicable to long term acute care hospitals. Payments at rates applicable to general acute care hospitals would result in our long term acute care hospitals receiving significantly less Medicare reimbursement than they currently receive for their patient services. Implementation of additional patient or facility criteria for LTCHs that limit the population of patients eligible for our hospitals’ services or change the basis on which we are paid could adversely affect our net operating revenue and profitability. CMS and industry stakeholders have, for a number of years, explored the development of facility and patient certification criteria for LTCHs, potentially as an alternative to the current specific payment adjustment features of LTCH-PPS. In its June 2004 “Report to Congress,” the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission recommended the adoption by CMS of new facility staffing and services criteria and patient clinical characteristics and treatment requirements for LTCHs in order to ensure that only appropriate patients are admitted to these facilities. The Medicare Payment Advisory Commission is an independent federal body that advises Congress on issues affecting the Medicare program. After the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission’s recommendation, CMS awarded a contract to Research Triangle Institute International to examine such recommendation. However, while acknowledging that Research Triangle Institute International’s findings are expected to have a substantial impact on future Medicare policy for LTCHs, CMS stated in the May 2006 final rule that many of the specific payment adjustment features of LTCH-PPS then in place may still be necessary and appropriate even with the development of patient- and facility-level criteria for LTCHs. In the preamble to the RY 2009 LTCH-PPS proposed rule, CMS indicated that Research Triangle Institute International continues to work with the clinical community to make recommendations to CMS regarding payment and treatment of critically ill patients in LTCHs. The SCHIP Extension Act requires the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services to conduct a study and submit a report to Congress on the establishment of national LTCH facility and patient criteria and to consider the recommendations contained in the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission’s June 2004 report to Congress. Implementation of additional criteria that may limit the population of patients eligible for our hospitals’ services or change the basis on which we are paid could adversely affect our net operating revenues and profitability. See “Business — Government Regulations — Overview of U.S. and State Government Reimbursements — Long Term Acute Care Hospital Medicare Reimbursement.” 33 Table of Contents Implementation of modifications to the admissions policies of our inpatient rehabilitation facilities as required in order to achieve compliance with Medicare regulations may result in a reduction of patient volume at these hospitals and, as a result, may reduce our future net operating revenues and profitability. We operate six acute medical rehabilitation hospitals, all of which are currently certified by Medicare as inpatient rehabilitation facilities, or “IRFs.” In order for these facilities to be eligible for payment under the IRF prospective payment system (“IRF-PPS”) for services provided to Medicare patients, each IRF must establish that, during its most recent 12-month cost reporting period, it served an inpatient population requiring intensive rehabilitation services. In particular, for cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2005, at least 60% of an IRFs inpatient population must require intensive rehabilitation services for treatment of one or more of 13 specific conditions with specified comorbidities counting toward this threshold. In order to comply with Medicare inpatient rehabilitation facility certification criteria, it may be necessary for us to implement more restrictive admissions policies at our inpatient rehabilitation facilities and not admit patients whose diagnoses fall outside the specified conditions. Such policies may result in a reduction of patient volume at these hospitals and, as a result, may reduce our future net operating revenues and profitability. See “Business — Government Regulations.” Decreases in Medicare reimbursement rates received by our outpatient rehabilitation clinics or implementation of annual caps that limit the amount that can be paid for outpatient therapy services rendered to any Medicare beneficiary may reduce our future net operating revenues and profitability. Our outpatient rehabilitation clinics receive payments from the Medicare program under a fee schedule. The Medicare physician fee schedule rates are automatically updated annually based on a formula, called the sustainable growth rate (“SGR”) formula, contained in legislation. If no further legislation is passed by Congress and signed by the President, the SGR formula will reduce our Medicare outpatient rehabilitation payment rates by approximately 21.2% beginning April 1, 2010. Congress has established annual caps that limit the amount that can be paid (including deductible and coinsurance amounts) for outpatient therapy services rendered to any Medicare beneficiary. As directed by Congress in the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, CMS implemented an exception process for therapy expenses incurred in 2006. Under this process, a Medicare enrollee (or person acting on behalf of the Medicare enrollee) was able to request an exception from the therapy caps if the provision of therapy services was deemed to be medically necessary. Therapy cap exceptions were available automatically for certain conditions and on a case-by-case basis upon submission of documentation of medical necessity. The exception process has been extended by Congress several times. Most recently, the Temporary Extension Act of 2010 extended the exception process through March 31, 2010. The exception process will expire on April 1, 2010 unless further extended by Congress. There can be no assurance that Congress will extend it further. To date, the implementation of the therapy caps has not had a material adverse effect on our business. However, if the exception process is not renewed, our future net operating revenues and profitability may decline. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2009, we received approximately 9.5% and 9.7%, respectively, of our outpatient rehabilitation net operating revenues from Medicare. See “Business — Government Regulations.” Our facilities are subject to extensive federal and state laws and regulations relating to the privacy of individually identifiable information. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 required the United States Department of Health and Human Services to adopt standards to protect the privacy and security of individually identifiable health-related information. The department released final regulations containing privacy standards in December 2000 and published revisions to the final regulations in August 2002. The privacy regulations extensively regulate the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health-related information. The regulations also provide patients with significant new rights related to understanding and controlling how their health information is used or disclosed. The security regulations require healthcare providers to implement administrative, physical and technical practices to protect the security of individually identifiable health information that is maintained or transmitted electronically. The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or “HITECH,” which was signed into 34 Table of Contents law in February of 2009, enhanced the privacy, security and enforcement provisions of HIPAA by, among other things establishing security breach notification requirements, allowing enforcement of HIPAA by state attorneys general, and increasing penalties for HIPAA violations. Violations of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 or the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act could result in civil or criminal penalties. In addition to HIPPA, there are numerous federal and state laws and regulations addressing patient and consumer privacy concerns, including unauthorized access or theft of personal information. State statutes and regulations vary from state to state. The Federal Trade Commission issued so-called “Red Flag” regulations aimed at preventing and detecting identity theft, which are expected to become effective soon. Lawsuits, including class actions and action by state attorneys general, directed at companies that have experienced a privacy or security breach are becoming more common. We have developed a comprehensive set of policies and procedures in our efforts to comply with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and other privacy laws. Our compliance officers and information security officers are responsible for implementing and monitoring compliance with our privacy and security policies and procedures at our facilities. We believe that the cost of our compliance with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and other federal and state privacy laws will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. However, there can be no assurance that a breach of privacy or security will not occur. If there is a breach, we may be subject to various penalties and damages and may be required to incur costs to mitigate the impact of the breach on affected individuals. As a result of increased post-payment reviews of claims we submit to Medicare for our services, we may incur additional costs and may be required to repay amounts already paid to us. We are subject to regular post-payment inquiries, investigations and audits of the claims we submit to Medicare for payment for our services. These post-payment reviews are increasing as a result of new government cost-containment initiatives, including enhanced medical necessity reviews for Medicare patients admitted to LTCHs, and audits of Medicare claims under the Recovery Audit Contractor program. These additional post-payment reviews may require us to incur additional costs to respond to requests for records and to pursue the reversal of payment denials, and ultimately may require us to refund amounts paid to us by Medicare that are determined to have been overpaid. We may be adversely affected by negative publicity which can result in increased governmental and regulatory scrutiny and possibly adverse regulatory changes. Negative press coverage can result in increased governmental and regulatory scrutiny and possibly adverse regulatory changes. On February 10, 2010, the New York Times published an article focusing on our Company and the long term acute care hospital industry entitled “Long-Term Care Hospitals Face Little Scrutiny.” On March 8, 2010, we received a letter from the United States Senate Finance Committee in response to the New York Times article asking us to respond to a variety of questions regarding our long-term care hospitals. Adverse publicity such as articles in the New York Times and increased governmental scrutiny can have a negative impact on our reputation with referral sources and patients and on the morale and performance of our employees, both of which could adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. Future acquisitions or joint ventures may use significant resources, may be unsuccessful and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. As part of our growth strategy, we may pursue acquisitions or joint ventures of specialty hospitals, outpatient rehabilitation clinics and other related healthcare facilities and services. These acquisitions or joint ventures may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, additional operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions or joint ventures involve numerous risks, including: • difficulty and expense of integrating acquired personnel into our business; 35 Table of Contents • diversion of management’s time from existing operations; • potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired companies; and • assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare regulations. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in obtaining financing for acquisitions or joint ventures at a reasonable cost, or that such financing will not contain restrictive covenants that limit our operating flexibility. We also may be unable to operate acquired hospitals and outpatient rehabilitation clinics profitably or succeed in achieving improvements in their financial performance. Future cost containment initiatives undertaken by private third-party payors may limit our future net operating revenues and profitability. Initiatives undertaken by major insurers and managed care companies to contain healthcare costs affect the profitability of our specialty hospitals and outpatient rehabilitation clinics. These payors attempt to control healthcare costs by contracting with hospitals and other healthcare providers to obtain services on a discounted basis. We believe that this trend may continue and may limit reimbursements for healthcare services. If insurers or managed care companies from whom we receive substantial payments reduce the amounts they pay for services, our profit margins may decline, or we may lose patients if we choose not to renew our contracts with these insurers at lower rates. If we fail to maintain established relationships with the physicians in the areas we serve, our net operating revenues may decrease. Our success is partially dependent upon the admissions and referral practices of the physicians in the communities our hospitals and our outpatient rehabilitation clinics serve, and our ability to maintain good relations with these physicians. Physicians referring patients to our hospitals and clinics are generally not our employees and, in many of the local areas that we serve, most physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals and are free to refer their patients to other providers. If we are unable to successfully cultivate and maintain strong relationships with these physicians, our hospitals’ admissions and clinics’ businesses may decrease, and our net operating revenues may decline. Changes in federal or state law limiting or prohibiting certain physician referrals may preclude physicians from investing in our hospitals or referring to hospitals in which they already own an interest. The federal self referral law, or “Stark Law,” 42 U.S.C. § 1395nn, prohibits a physician who has a financial relationship with an entity from referring his or her Medicare or Medicaid patients to that entity for certain designated health services, including inpatient and outpatient hospital services. Under current law, physicians who have a direct or indirect ownership interest in a hospital will not be prohibited from referring to the hospital because of the applicability of the “whole hospital exception” to the Stark Law. Various bills recently introduced in Congress have included provisions that further restrict physician ownership in hospitals to which the physician refers patients. These provisions would typically limit the Stark Law’s “whole hospital exception” to existing hospitals with physician ownership. Physicians with ownership in “new” hospitals would be prohibited from referring to that hospital. Certain requirements and limitations would also be placed on existing hospitals with physician ownership, such as limiting the expansion of any such hospital and limiting the amount and terms of physician investment. Furthermore, initiatives are underway in some states to restrict physician referrals to physician-owned hospitals. Currently, nine of our hospitals have physicians as minority owners. The aggregate revenue of these nine hospitals was $172.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, or approximately 7.7% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009. The range of physician minority ownership of these nine hospitals was 2.1% to 49.0%, with the average physician minority ownership of 10.7% as of the year ended December 31, 2009. There can be no assurance that new legislation or regulation prohibiting or limiting physician referrals to physician-owned hospitals will not be successfully enacted in the future. If such federal or state laws are adopted, among other outcomes, physicians who have invested in, or considered investing in, our hospitals could be precluded from referring to, investing in or continuing to be physician owners of a hospital. In addition, expansion of our physician-owned 36 Table of Contents hospitals may be limited, and the revenues, profitability and overall financial performance of our hospitals may be negatively affected. Shortages in qualified nurses or therapists could increase our operating costs significantly. Our specialty hospitals are highly dependent on nurses for patient care and our outpatient rehabilitation clinics are highly dependant on therapists for patient care. The availability of qualified nurses and therapists nationwide has declined in recent years, and the salaries for nurses and therapists have risen accordingly. We cannot assure you we will be able to attract and retain qualified nurses or therapists in the future. Additionally, the cost of attracting and retaining nurses and therapists may be higher than we anticipate, and as a result, our profitability could decline. Competition may limit our ability to acquire hospitals and clinics and adversely affect our growth. We have historically faced limited competition in acquiring specialty hospitals and outpatient rehabilitation clinics, but we may face heightened competition in the future. Our competitors may acquire or seek to acquire many of the hospitals and clinics that would be suitable acquisition candidates for us. This increased competition could hamper our ability to acquire companies, or such increased competition may cause us to pay a higher price than we would otherwise pay in a less competitive environment. Increased competition from both strategic and financial buyers could limit our ability to grow by acquisitions or make our cost of acquisitions higher and therefore decrease our profitability. If we fail to compete effectively with other hospitals, clinics and healthcare providers in our local areas, our net operating revenues and profitability may decline. The healthcare business is highly competitive, and we compete with other hospitals, rehabilitation clinics and other healthcare providers for patients. If we are unable to compete effectively in the specialty hospital and outpatient rehabilitation businesses, our net operating revenues and profitability may decline. Many of our specialty hospitals operate in geographic areas where we compete with at least one other hospital that provides similar services. Our outpatient rehabilitation clinics face competition from a variety of local and national outpatient rehabilitation providers. Other outpatient rehabilitation clinics in local areas we serve may have greater name recognition and longer operating histories than our clinics. The managers of these clinics may also have stronger relationships with physicians in their communities, which could give them a competitive advantage for patient referrals. Our business operations could be significantly disrupted if we lose key members of our management team. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior officers and key employees, both individually and as a group. Our future performance will be substantially dependent in particular on our ability to retain and motivate four key employees, Rocco A. Ortenzio, our Executive Chairman, Robert A. Ortenzio, our Chief Executive Officer, Patricia A. Rice, our President and Chief Operating Officer, and Martin F. Jackson, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. We currently have an employment agreement in place with each of Messrs. Rocco and Robert Ortenzio and Ms. Rice and a change in control agreement with Mr. Jackson. Each of these individuals also has a significant equity ownership in our company. We have no reason to believe that we will lose the services of any of these individuals in the foreseeable future; however, we currently have no effective replacement for any of these individuals due to their experience, reputation in the industry and special role in our operations. We also do not maintain any key life insurance policies for any of our employees. The loss of the services of any of these individuals would disrupt significant aspects of our business, could prevent us from successfully executing our business strategy and could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. 37 Table of Contents Significant legal actions as well as the cost and possible lack of available insurance could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities. Physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers have become subject to an increasing number of legal actions alleging malpractice, product liability or related legal theories. Many of these actions involve large claims and significant defense costs. We are also subject to lawsuits under federal and state whistleblower statutes designed to combat fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry. These whistleblower lawsuits are not covered by insurance and can involve significant monetary damages and award bounties to private plaintiffs who successfully bring the suits. We currently maintain professional malpractice liability insurance and general liability insurance coverages under a combination of policies with a total annual aggregate limit of $30.0 million. Our insurance for the professional liability coverage is written on a “claims-made” basis and our commercial general liability coverage is maintained on an “occurrence” basis. These coverages are generally subject to a self-insured retention of $2.0 million per medical incident for professional liability claims and $2.0 million per occurrence for general liability claims. We review our insurance program annually and may make adjustments to the amount of insurance coverage and self-insured retentions in future years. In recent years, many insurance underwriters have become more selective in the insurance limits and types of coverage they will provide as a result of rising settlement costs. Insurance underwriters, in some instances, will no longer underwrite risk in certain states that have a history of high medical malpractice awards. There can be no assurance that malpractice insurance will be available in certain states in the future nor that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage at a reasonable price. Since our professional liability insurance is on a claims-made basis, any failure to obtain malpractice insurance in any state in the future would increase our exposure not only to claims arising in such state in the future but also to claims arising from injuries that may have already occurred but which had not been reported during the period in which we previously had insurance coverage in that state. In addition, our insurance coverage does not cover punitive damages and may not cover all claims against us. See “Business — Government Regulations — Other Healthcare Regulations.” Concentration of ownership among our existing executives, directors and principal stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. Welsh Carson and Thoma Cressey beneficially own approximately 42.4% and 8.0%, respectively, of our outstanding common stock as of March 1, 2010. Our executives, directors and principal stockholders, including Welsh Carson and Thoma Cressey, beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 67.3% of our outstanding common stock as of March 1, 2010. As a result, these stockholders have significant control over our management and policies and are able to exercise influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions. The directors elected by these stockholders are able to make decisions affecting our capital structure, including decisions to issue additional capital stock, implement stock repurchase programs and incur indebtedness. This influence may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers, delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. We are a holding company and therefore depend on our subsidiaries to service our obligations under our indebtedness and for any funds to pay dividends to our stockholders. Our ability to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends to our stockholders depends entirely upon the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to make distributions. We have no operations of our own and derive all of our revenues and cash flow from our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due under our 10% senior subordinated notes and senior floating rate notes, or to make any funds available therefor, whether by dividend, distribution, loan or other payments. In addition, any of our rights in the assets of any of our subsidiaries upon any liquidation or reorganization of any subsidiary will be subject to the prior claims of that subsidiary’s creditors, including lenders under our senior secured credit facility and holders of Select’s 75/8% senior subordinated notes. Holdings’ total consolidated balance sheet liabilities as of December 31, 2009 were $1,832.7 million, of which $1,405.6 million constituted indebtedness, including $483.1 million of indebtedness (excluding $30.7 million of letters of credit) under our senior secured credit facility, $611.5 million of Select’s 38 Table of Contents 75/8% senior subordinated notes, $137.3 million of our 10% senior subordinated notes and $167.3 million of our senior floating rate notes. As of such date, we would have been able to borrow up to an additional $269.3 million under our senior secured credit facility. We and our restricted subsidiaries may incur additional debt in the future, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facility. We depend on our subsidiaries, which conduct the operations of the business, for dividends and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations, including payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness. We would also depend on our subsidiaries for any funds to pay dividends to our stockholders. In the event our subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on common stock. The terms of our senior secured credit facility and the terms of the indentures governing Select’s 75/8% senior subordinated notes restrict Select and its subsidiaries from, in each case, paying dividends or otherwise transferring its assets to us. Such restrictions include, among others, financial covenants, prohibition of dividends in the event of a default and limitations on the total amount of dividends. In addition, legal and contractual restrictions in agreements governing other current and future indebtedness, as well as financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, currently limit and may, in the future, limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. The earnings from other available assets of our subsidiaries may not be sufficient to pay dividends or make distributions or loans to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness when such payments are due. In addition, even if such earnings were sufficient, we cannot assure you that the agreements governing the current and future indebtedness of our subsidiaries will permit such subsidiaries to provide us with sufficient dividends, distributions or loans to fund interest and principal payments on our indebtedness when due. If our subsidiaries are unable to make dividends or otherwise distribute funds to us, we may not be able to satisfy the terms of our indebtedness, there will not be sufficient funds remaining to make distributions to our stockholders and the value of your investment in our common stock will be materially decreased. Our substantial indebtedness may limit the amount of cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $1,405.6 million of total indebtedness. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2009, we paid cash interest of $135.8 million and $126.7 million, respectively on our indebtedness. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to you. For example, it: • requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development activity, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • increases our vulnerability to adverse general economic or industry conditions; • limits our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industries in which we operate; • makes us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates, as borrowings under our senior secured credit facility and the senior floating rate notes are at variable rates; • limits our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital or other purposes, such as raising the funds necessary to repurchase all notes tendered to us upon the occurrence of specified changes of control in our ownership; and • places us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 39 Table of Contents Our senior secured credit facility requires Select to comply with certain financial covenants, the default of which may result in the acceleration of certain of our indebtedness. Our senior secured credit facility requires Select to maintain certain interest expense coverage ratios and leverage ratios which become more restrictive over time. For the four consecutive fiscal quarters ended December 31, 2009, Select was required to maintain an interest expense coverage ratio (its ratio of consolidated EBITDA to cash interest expense) for the prior four consecutive quarters of at least 2.00 to 1.00. As of December 31, 2009, Select was required to maintain its leverage ratio (its ratio of total indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters) at less than 5.00 to 1.00. For the four quarters ended December 31, 2009, Select’s interest expense coverage ratio was 2.58 to 1.00 and Select’s leverage ratio was 3.11 to 1.00. While Select has never defaulted on compliance with any of these financial covenants, its ability to comply with these ratios in the future may be affected by events beyond its control. Inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under our senior secured credit facility. In the event of any default under our senior secured credit facility, the lenders under our senior secured credit facility could elect to terminate borrowing commitments and declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. Any default under our senior secured credit facility that results in the acceleration of the outstanding indebtedness under our senior secured credit facility would also constitute an event of default under Select’s 75/8% senior subordinated notes and the senior floating rate notes, and the trustee or holders of each such notes could elect to declare such notes to be immediately due and payable. Despite our substantial level of indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional indebtedness. This could further exacerbate the risks described above. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future. Although our senior secured credit facility, the indentures governing each of Select’s 75/8% senior subordinated notes and the senior floating rate notes each contain or will contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Also, these restrictions do not prevent us or our subsidiaries from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, we had $269.3 million of revolving loan availability under our senior secured credit facility (after giving effect to $30.7 million of outstanding letters of credit). In addition, to the extent new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described above would increase. Our inability to access external sources of financing when our senior secured credit facility terminates could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our Tranche B term loans mature on February 24, 2012 and Tranche B-1 term loans mature on August 22, 2014. Our revolving credit facility will terminate on February 24, 2011. We anticipate refinancing at least a portion of the indebtedness under our senior secured credit facility within the next twelve months, which includes entering into a new revolving credit facility on or before the termination of our current revolving credit facility on February 24, 2011. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our effort to enter into a new revolving credit facility and/or refinance indebtedness under our senior secured credit facility in the future. Many lenders have been adversely impacted by recent events in the United States and international financial markets and, as a result, have ceased or reduced the amount of lending they have made available to borrowers. While we expect there to be alternatives available to us to enter into a new revolving credit facility and/or refinance our indebtedness under our senior secured credit facility, we cannot assure you that any of these alternatives will be successfully implemented. We depend on our revolving credit facility to meet our cash requirements to operate our business. If we repay our revolving credit facility upon its termination and are unable to enter into a new revolving credit facility on terms acceptable to us, or at all, we may be forced to reduce our operations and may not be able to respond to changing business conditions or competitive pressures. As a result, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. 40 Table of Contents Our inability to refinance our revolving credit facility, Tranche B term loans and Tranche B-1 term loans prior to their scheduled termination or maturity could cause an event of default under our senior secured credit facility because we may not otherwise have cash available to make final repayments of principal under our revolving credit facility, Tranche B term loans and Tranche B-1 term loans. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance indebtedness under our senior secured credit facility on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If an event of default were to occur under our senior secured credit facility due to our failure to make repayments of principal upon the termination or maturity of our revolving credit facility, Tranche B term loans or Tranche B-1 term loans, then an event of default would also occur under Select’s 75/8% senior subordinated notes, our senior floating rate notes and our 10% senior subordinated notes. Upon an event of default under our senior secured credit facility, Select’s 75/8% senior subordinated notes, our senior floating rate notes and our 10% senior subordinated notes, our lenders will be entitled to take various actions, including all actions permitted to be taken by a secured creditor, and our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We are exposed to the credit risk of our payors which in the future may cause us to make larger allowances for doubtful accounts or incur bad debt write-offs. In the future, due to deteriorating economic conditions or other factors commercial payors may default on their payments to us, and individual patients may default on co-payments and deductibles for which they are responsible under the terms of either commercial insurance programs or Medicare. Although we review the credit risk of our commercial payors regularly, such risks will nevertheless arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to anticipate or control, such as a general economic downturn. As a result of the credit risk exposure of our payors defaulting on their payments to us in the future, we may have to make larger allowances for doubtful accounts or incur bad debt write-offs, both of which may have an adverse impact on our profitability. Adverse economic conditions could materially adversely affect our net operating revenues in our outpatient rehabilitation segment from commercial payors. Our net operating revenues may be materially adversely affected by adverse conditions in the general economy that could reduce the frequency of visits by patients of our outpatient rehabilitation clinics. While we believe that patient demand for the services provided by our outpatient rehabilitation clinics will not generally be impacted by the current state of the general economy, adverse economic conditions may result in some patients with commercial insurance electing to defer treatment or decrease the frequency of visits to our outpatient rehabilitation clinics in order to minimize their copay obligations. This could have a material adverse effect on the amount of our net operating revenues in our outpatient rehabilitation segment from commercial payors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 