Item 1A. Risk Factors This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed or implied in such forward-looking statements due to such risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed below, in the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and elsewhere in this report. 8 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We may be required to conduct product recalls and concerns with the safety and quality of food products could harm our sales or cause consumers to avoid our products. The sale of food products for human consumption involves risk of injury to consumers. We face risks associated with product recalls and liability claims if our products become adulterated, mislabeled or misbranded, or cause injury, illness or death. Our products may be subject to product tampering and to contamination risks, such as mold, bacteria, insects and other pests, shell fragments, cross-contamination and off-flavor contamination. If any of our products were to be tampered with, or otherwise tainted and we were unable to detect it prior to shipment, our products could be subject to a recall. Our ability to sell products could be reduced if governmental agencies conclude that our products have been tampered with, or that certain pesticides, herbicides or other chemicals used by growers have left harmful residues on portions of the crop or that the crop has been contaminated by aflatoxin or other agents. A significant product recall could cause our products to be unavailable for a period of time and reduce our sales. Adverse publicity could result in a loss of consumer confidence in our products and also reduce our sales for an extended period. Product recalls and product liability claims could increase our expenses and have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and, consequently, reduce our sales, net income and liquidity. Government regulations could increase our costs of production and our costs of legal and regulatory compliance. As a food company, we are subject to extensive government regulation, including regulation of the manufacturing, importation, processing, packaging, storage, distribution and labeling of our products. We are also subject to environmental regulations governing the discharge into the air, and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials. California’s Proposition 65 requires warning labels on products sold in California that contain any substance listed as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. California has placed on the Proposition 65 list a naturally-occurring chemical compound, known as acrylamide, that is formed in the process of cooking many foods, including potato chips. Through our Kettle Foods business, we have entered into a settlement agreement with the California Attorney General to reduce the level of acrylamide in our products by December 2011. If consumer concerns about acrylamide increase, demand for affected products could decline and our revenues could be harmed. New or amended statutes and regulations, increased production at our existing facilities, and our expansion into new operations and jurisdictions may require us to obtain new licenses and permits, and could require us to change our methods of operations, which could be costly. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as possible criminal sanctions, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A disruption at any of our production facilities would significantly decrease production, which could increase our cost of sales and reduce our net sales and income from operations. A temporary or extended interruption in operations at any of our facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction or damage from fire, flood or earthquake, infrastructure failures such as power or water shortages, raw material shortage or any other reason, whether or not covered by insurance, could interrupt our manufacturing operations, disrupt communications with our customers and suppliers and cause us to write off inventory and to lose sales. Further, current and potential customers might not purchase our products if they perceive our lack of alternate manufacturing facilities to be a risk to their continuing source of products. The acquisition of other product lines or businesses could pose risks to our profitability. We intend to review acquisition prospects that we believe could complement our existing business. Any such future acquisitions could result in accounting charges, potentially dilutive issuances of stock, and increased debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and the market price of our common stock. Acquisitions entail many risks, including difficulties integrating the acquired operations, diversion of management attention during the negotiation and integration phases, uncertainty entering markets in which we have limited prior experience, and potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. We may be unable to integrate product lines or businesses that we acquire, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and on the market price of our common stock. 9 Table of Contents Changes in the food industry, including changing dietary trends and consumer preferences, could reduce demand for our products. Consumer tastes can change rapidly as a result of many factors, including shifting consumer preferences, dietary trends and purchasing patterns. Our growth is largely dependent on the snack market, where consumer preferences are particularly unpredictable. To address consumer preferences, we invest significant resources in research and development of new products. If we fail to anticipate, identify or react to consumer trends, or if new products we develop do not achieve acceptance by retailers or consumers, demand for our products could decline, which would in turn cause our revenue and profitability to be lower. Increased costs associated with product processing and transportation, such as water, electricity, natural gas and fuel costs, could increase our expenses and reduce our profitability. We require a substantial amount of energy and water to process our products. Transportation costs, including fuel and labor, also represent a significant portion of the cost of our products, because we use third party truck and rail companies to collect our raw materials and deliver our products. These costs fluctuate significantly over time. We may not be able to pass on increased costs of production or transportation to our customers. In addition, from time to time, transportation service providers have a backlog of shipping requests, which could impact our ability to ship products in a timely fashion. Increases in the cost of water, electricity, natural gas, fuel or labor, and failure to ship products on time, could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Our raw materials are subject to fluctuations in availability and price. The availability, size, quality and cost of raw materials for the production of our products, including walnuts, pecans, peanuts, cashews, almonds, other nuts, corn, potatoes, ingredients and processing oils, are subject to risks inherent to farming, such as crop size, quality and yield fluctuations caused by poor weather and growing conditions, pest and disease problems, and other factors beyond our control. Nut, corn and potato market prices fluctuate based on supply and demand. If the supply of nuts does not expand to meet any increases in demand, our costs will increase. With respect to corn, since the price we pay for popcorn is based in part on the futures price of Number 2 Yellow Corn, if corn supply does not expand to meet demand, our costs for popcorn will increase. Potato supply shortages and resulting price increases could adversely impact our profitability. High prices might dampen growth of consumer demand for our products. Currently, we do not hedge against changes in nut, corn or potato commodity prices. From time to time, we may have large inventories of raw nut material. If there is a decline in the prices we can obtain for finished product, a significant portion of our inventories could decline in value, and this might result in a write-down of inventory. Any write-down of inventory would adversely impact our operating results. The principal co-packer for our popcorn products acquires raw corn on our behalf, directly from farmers, to meet our annual supply needs that we estimate in advance of the harvest. If we underestimate the amount of popcorn we will need, then we may have less product available to sell, which could reduce potential sales revenues. If we overestimate our anticipated needs, we may be forced to carry more inventory than we can profitably sell, which would adversely impact our operating results. The price we pay for popcorn is based in part on the Number 2 Yellow Corn futures price quoted on the Chicago Board of Trade for a time and date of our choosing. If we do not optimize the time at which we establish the price of popcorn, and as a result pay a higher price than we planned, our margins and profitability may decline. Our potato chip products are dependent on suppliers providing us with an adequate supply of quality potatoes on a timely basis. The failure of suppliers to meet the specifications, quality standards or delivery schedules could have a material adverse effect on our potato chip operations. In particular, a sudden scarcity, substantial price increase, or unavailability of ingredients could materially adversely affect our operating results. There can be no assurance that alternative ingredients would be available when needed on commercially attractive terms, if at all. If we are unable to compete effectively in the markets in which we operate, our results of operations would be negatively affected. In general, competition in our markets is based on product quality, price, brand recognition and brand loyalty. Our products compete against food and snack products sold by many regional and national companies, some of which are substantially larger and 10 Table of Contents have greater resources than we have. We compete for shelf space in retail grocery, convenience, drug, mass merchandiser and club stores, many of whom have significant purchasing power. The greater scale and resources that may be available to our competitors could provide them with the ability to lower prices or increase their promotional or marketing spending to operate in this environment effectively. In addition, some channels through which we sell our snack products, such as drug and convenience stores, are different than those that we typically use for our culinary and in-shell products, and we have less experience in these channels than many of our competitors. Furthermore, competition in other channels, such as club stores, involves a sales cycle that can be one year or longer and may require displacing incumbent vendors who have longer relationships with the buyers. If we are unable to compete effectively, we could be unable to increase the breadth of the distribution of our products or lose customers or distribution of products, which could have an adverse impact on our sales and profitability. The loss of any major customer could adversely impact our business. We depend on a few significant customers for a large proportion of our net sales. This concentration has become more pronounced with the trend toward consolidation in the retail grocery store industry. Sales to our top customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (which includes sales to both Sam’s Club and Wal-Mart), represented approximately 17% of our total net sales for the year ended July 31, 2010. Sales to Costco Wholesale Corporation represented 12% of our total net sales for the year ended July 31, 2010. The loss of these customers, or any other significant customer, or a material decrease in their purchases from us, could result in decreased sales and adversely impact our net income. Because we experience seasonal fluctuations in our sales, our quarterly results will fluctuate and our annual performance will depend largely on results from our first two quarters. Our business is highly seasonal, reflecting the general pattern of peak consumer demand for nut products during the months of October, November and December. Typically, a substantial portion of our revenues are earned during our first and second fiscal quarters. We generally experience lower revenues during our third and fourth fiscal quarters and in the future may incur losses in these quarters. Sales in the first and second fiscal quarters accounted for approximately 54% of our revenues for the year ended July 31, 2010. If sales in these quarters are lower than expected, our operating results would be adversely affected, and it would have a disproportionately large impact on our annual operating results. We depend on our key personnel and if we lose the services of any of these individuals, or fail to attract and retain additional key personnel, we may not be able to implement our business strategy or operate our business effectively. Our future success largely depends on the contributions of our senior management team. We believe that these individuals’ expertise and knowledge about our industry and their respective fields and their relationships with other individuals in our industry are critical factors to our continued growth and success. We do not carry key person insurance. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Our success also depends upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified sales, marketing and other personnel. Bioterrorism legislation could disrupt our supply of imported nuts. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, is responsible for developing and implementing food safety measures. The Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002, which we refer to as the Bioterrorism Act, was enacted to protect the U.S. food supply. It includes provisions authorizing the Secretary of Health and Human Services to take action to protect the nation’s food supply against the threat of intentional contamination. The Bioterrorism Act requires us to register with the FDA as a U.S. Food Manufacturing Company, and to retain records about our sources of raw materials and the recipients of our finished goods. The Bioterrorism Act and related rules also result in higher costs for plant security and product safety, as well as general compliance costs. If we are unable to pass higher costs on to our customers, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. The current global economic downturn may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions, including the impact of recessions in the United States and throughout the world, may negatively affect our business and financial results. These economic conditions could negatively impact consumer demand for our 11 Table of Contents products, the mix of our products’ sales, our ability to collect accounts receivable on a timely basis, the ability of suppliers to provide the materials required in our operations and our ability to obtain financing or to otherwise access the capital markets. Additionally, the economic situation could have an impact on our lenders or customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. The occurrence of any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be negatively impacted if we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations. The success of our business depends substantially upon our ability to maintain satisfactory relations with our employees. The production and distribution employees working in our Stockton, California plant are members of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. If a work stoppage or slow down were to occur under our collective bargaining agreement, it could adversely affect our business and disrupt our operations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by the political and economic conditions of the countries in which we conduct business and other factors related to our international operations. We conduct a substantial amount of business with vendors and customers located outside the United States. During 2010, sales outside the United States, primarily in the United Kingdom, Canada, South Korea, Germany, Turkey, Japan, Netherlands, Spain and Italy accounted for approximately 18.6% of our net sales. With the acquisition of Kettle Foods, we expect a substantial increase in the percentage of our products sold in countries other than the United States. In addition, we expect an increase of our operations and employees that are located outside of the United States. Many factors relating to our international operations and to particular countries in which we operate could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These factors include: • negative economic developments in economies around the world and the instability of governments, including the threat of war, terrorist attacks, epidemic or civil unrest; • adverse changes in laws and governmental policies, especially those affecting trade and investment; • pandemics, such as the flu, which may adversely affect our workforce as well as our local suppliers and customers; • earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or other major disasters which may limit the supply of nuts or other products that we purchase abroad; • import or export licensing requirements imposed by governments; • foreign currency exchange and transfer restrictions; • differing labor standards; • differing levels of protection of intellectual property; • the threat that our operations or property could be subject to nationalization and expropriation; • varying practices of the regulatory, tax, judicial and administrative bodies in the jurisdictions where we operate; and • potentially burdensome taxation and changes in foreign tax laws. Any of these international business risks could have a material and adverse effect on our operating results. As a private company, Kettle Foods may not have had in place an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting that we will need to manage that business effectively as part of a public company. Kettle Foods was a private company that was not previously subject to financial reporting on the basis of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and had not been subject to periodic reporting as a public company. There can be no assurance 12 Table of Contents that the Kettle Foods system of internal control over financial reporting would meet the standards required for public companies. Establishing, testing and maintaining an effective system of internal control over financial reporting requires significant resources and time commitments on the part of our management and our finance and accounting staff, may require additional staffing and infrastructure investments, and would increase our costs of doing business. Moreover, if we discover aspects of the Kettle Foods internal controls that need improvement, we cannot be certain that our remedial measures will be effective. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could harm our operating results or increase our risk of material weakness in internal controls. A material impairment in the carrying value of acquired goodwill or other intangible assets could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. A significant portion of our assets is goodwill and other intangible assets, the majority of which are not amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment. If the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current fair value, the asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value resulting in a non-cash charge to earnings. Events and conditions that could result in impairment include a sustained drop in the market price of our common shares, increased competition or loss of market share, product innovation or obsolescence, or product claims that result in a significant loss of sales or profitability over the product life. At July 31, 2010, the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately $845.8 million, compared to total assets of approximately $1,225.9 million and total shareholders’ equity of approximately $379.9 million. Risks Related to Indebtedness As a result of our acquisition of Kettle Foods, we are highly leveraged, which could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry. In connection with the Kettle Foods acquisition, we entered into a Secured Credit Facility and incurred a substantial amount of additional debt. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flow from operations sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to take any of these actions, and these actions may not be successful or permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations and these actions may not be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Since our debt agreements restrict our ability to dispose of assets, we may not be able to consummate such dispositions, and this could result in our inability to meet our debt service obligations. This high degree of leverage could have other important consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because our secured credit facility is at variable rates of interest; • making it more difficult to satisfy obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing the indebtedness; • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors who are less highly leveraged and who therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from pursuing. 13 Table of Contents Despite our high initial indebtedness level, we may be able to incur significant additional amounts of debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although existing agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ existing debt levels, the related risks that we now face would increase. The debt agreements contain restrictions that may limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our secured credit facility contains various covenants that may limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things: • make certain investments or other capital expenditures; • sell assets; • create liens; • acquire other companies and businesses; • borrow additional funds under new revolving credit facilities; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default of the secured credit facility agreement. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the secured credit facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the secured credit facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the secured credit facility could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock is volatile and may result in investors selling shares of our common stock at a loss. The trading price of our common stock is volatile and subject to fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; • changes in our revenues or earnings estimates or recommendations by any securities analysts who may decide to follow our stock or our industry; • publication of research reports about us or our industry by any securities analysts who may decide to follow our stock or our industry; • speculation in the press or investment community; • terrorist acts; and • general market conditions, including economic factors unrelated to our performance. 14 Table of Contents In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from executing our growth strategy. The timing and amount of our working capital and capital expenditure requirements may vary significantly depending on many factors, including: • market acceptance of our products; • the need to adapt to changing technologies and technical requirements; • the existence of opportunities for expansion; and • access to and availability of sufficient management, technical, marketing and financial personnel. If our capital resources are not sufficient to satisfy our liquidity needs, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain other debt financing. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional debt would result in increased expenses and could result in covenants that would restrict our operations. With the exception of the secured credit facility, we have not made arrangements to obtain additional financing. We may not be able to obtain additional financing, if required, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan and will issue one preferred stock purchase right with each share of our common stock that we issue. Each right will entitle the holder to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of our Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock. Under certain circumstances, if a person or group acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock, holders of the rights (other than the person or group triggering their exercise) will be able to purchase, in exchange for the $60.00 exercise price, shares of our common stock or of any company into which we are merged having a value of $120.00. The rights expire in March 2015 unless extended by our board of directors. Because the rights may substantially dilute the stock ownership of a person or group attempting to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors, our rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us (or a significant percentage of our outstanding capital stock) without first negotiating with our board of directors regarding such acquisition. In addition, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock (of which 500,000 shares have been designated as Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock) and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock may be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Further, certain provisions of our charter documents, including provisions establishing a classified board of directors, eliminating the ability of stockholders to take action by written consent and limiting the ability of stockholders to raise matters at a meeting of stockholders without giving advance notice, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or our management, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. Further, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which will prohibit an “interested stockholder” from engaging in a “business combination” with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, even if such combination is favored by a majority of stockholders, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. All of the foregoing could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or management. 15 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 