Item 1A. Risk Factors This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed or implied in such forward-looking statements due to such risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed below, in the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and elsewhere in this report. 7 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Diamond, and some of our current and former officers and directors, have been named as parties to various lawsuits arising out of or related to Diamond’s restatement of our fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2011 consolidated financial statements, primarily resulting from our accounting for payments to walnut growers related to fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2011, and those lawsuits could adversely affect our reputation, divert significant management time and attention, result in significant legal expenses or damages, and cause our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows to suffer. In 2011, various putative shareholder class action and derivative complaints were filed in federal and state court against Diamond and certain current and former Diamond directors and officers, after we announced that our Audit Committee had initiated an investigation into the accounting for certain payments to walnut growers. In 2011, a number of putative securities class action suits against Diamond and some of our former executive officers were filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. These suits allege that defendants made materially false and misleading statements, or failed to disclose material facts, regarding our financial results, operations and prospects, including our accounting for payments to walnut growers and the anticipated closing of Diamond’s proposed merger of the Pringles business from The Procter & Gamble Company (“P&G”). These actions were consolidated as In re Diamond Foods Inc., Securities Litigation. An amended complaint was filed in the consolidated action naming Diamond, certain of its former executive officers and our former independent auditor as defendants. The amended complaint purports to allege claims covering the period from October 5, 2010 through February 8, 2012 and seeks compensatory damages, interest thereon, costs and expenses incurred in the action and other relief. The parties have reached a proposed agreement, subject to final court approval, to settle the action. After settlement negotiations, lead plaintiff filed a motion for preliminary approval of the settlement on August 21, 2013 which was granted on September 26, 2013. Class members have until December 20, 2013 to object to the settlement, and a hearing for final approval of the proposed settlement is scheduled for January 9, 2014. This settlement remains subject to final approval by the court and no assurance can be given that the settlement will be approved. If this settlement is not approved, management’s attention may be diverted to this matter and there can be no assurance that the litigation would be settled. If the litigation proceeds, the legal and other costs associated with the defense of this action would and the ultimate outcome of this action could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Pursuant to the terms of a proposed settlement, we would pay a total of $11.0 million in cash and issue 4.45 million shares of our common stock to a settlement fund to resolve all claims asserted on behalf of investors who purchased or otherwise acquired shares of our common stock between October 5, 2010 and February 8, 2012. We would have the ability to privately place, or conduct a public offering of, the shares with the consent of the lead plaintiff and its counsel, prior to distribution of the settlement fund, in which case the settlement fund would include the proceeds of the offering in lieu of the settlement shares. Putative shareholder derivative lawsuits were filed in the Superior Court for the State of California, San Francisco County, purportedly on behalf of Diamond Foods and naming certain executive officers and the members of our board of directors as individual defendants and these lawsuits were subsequently consolidated as In re Diamond Foods, Inc. Shareholder Derivative Litigation. The consolidated complaint names some of our current and former executive officers and directors and our former independent auditor, individual defendants. The consolidated complaint arises from the same or similar alleged facts as alleged in the federal securities action and the federal derivative litigation (discussed in the next paragraph below), and purports to set forth claims for breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, abuse of control and gross mismanagement, and against the auditor for professional negligence and breach of contract. The lawsuit sought to recover unspecified damages allegedly sustained by Diamond, corporate reforms, disgorgement, restitution, the recovery of plaintiff’s attorney’s fees and other relief. Following mediation efforts, the parties agreed to terms of a proposed settlement which the court approved on August 19, 2013. On September 23, 2013, a Notice of Appeal was filed. If appeals proceed and this settlement is not approved, management’s attention may be diverted to this matter, and the costs associated with defending this action would and the ultimate outcome of this action could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Putative shareholder derivative lawsuits were filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, purportedly on behalf of Diamond Foods and naming some of our current and former executive officers as individual defendants. These lawsuits were subsequently consolidated as In re Diamond Foods, Inc., Derivative Litigation. The complaint alleged that defendants made materially false or misleading statements or omissions in proxy statements in 2010 and 2011, and alleged breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, contribution and indemnification, gross mismanagement. Against our independent auditor it alleged professional negligence, accounting malpractice and aiding and abetting the breach of fiduciary duties of the other individual defendants. The suit sought to recover unspecified damages allegedly sustained by Diamond, which was named as a nominal defendant, corporate reforms, restitution, equitable and/or injunctive relief, to recover plaintiff’s attorney’s fees and other relief. This suit, which was dismissed with prejudice based on lack of subject matter jurisdiction related to deficiencies in plaintiffs’ claims, has been appealed. If this appeal proceeds, management’s attention may be diverted to this matter, and the legal and other costs associated with the defense of this action would and the ultimate outcome of this action could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits or the approval of the securities class action litigation. The matters which led to our Audit Committee investigation and the restatement of our fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2011 consolidated financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. We and our current and former officers and directors may in the future be subject to additional litigation relating to such matters. We are obligated to indemnify our current and former officers and directors in connection with these lawsuits and related litigation or settlements amounts. Regardless of the outcome, these lawsuits, and any other litigation that may be brought against us or our current or former officers and directors, could be time-consuming, result in significant expense and divert the attention and resources of our management and other key employees. An unfavorable outcome in any of these matters could exceed coverage provided under potentially applicable insurance policies, which is limited. Any such unfavorable outcome could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, we could be required to pay damages or additional penalties or have other remedies imposed against us, or our current or former directors or officers, which could harm our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Government investigations may require significant management time and attention, result in significant legal expenses or damages and cause our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows to suffer. The unfavorable resolution of one or more matters could adversely impact Diamond. On December 14, 2011, Diamond received a formal order of investigation from the Division of Enforcement of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, the U.S. Attorney’s office for the Northern District of California has contacted us. We have cooperated with the government and expect to continue to do so. The amount of time needed to resolve these investigations is uncertain, and we cannot predict the outcome of these investigations or whether we will face additional government investigations, inquiries or other actions related to our accounting for payments to walnut growers or otherwise. Subject to certain limitations, we are obligated to indemnify our current and former directors, officers and employees in connection with the ongoing governmental investigation and any future government inquiries, investigations or actions. These matters have required us to expend significant management time and incur legal and other expenses and could require us to continue to do so. Additionally, these matters could result in civil and criminal actions seeking, among other things, injunctions against us and the payment of fines and penalties by us, and any significant fines and penalties may have a material effect on our financial condition, business, results of operations and cash flow. If these governmental authorities were to commence legal action, we could be required to pay significant penalties and could become subject to injunctions, a cease and desist order and other equitable remedies. We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of any governmental investigation. 9 Table of Contents Our potential indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance could result in significant legal expenses or damages and cause our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows to suffer. Former executive officers and members of our board of directors as individual defendants are the subject of government investigations and lawsuits. Under Delaware law, our bylaws and certain indemnification agreements, we may have an obligation to indemnify former officers and directors in relation to these matters. Insurance funds from our director and officer liability policies were used in connection with the settlements of the shareholder derivative litigation and securities class action litigation and as a result, we will be required to fund indemnity obligations from claims resulting from the restatement of the accounting for certain payments to walnut growers. If the proposed securities class litigation settlement is ultimately not consummated, appeals proceed in the shareholder derivative actions, or if the Company incurs significant uninsured indemnity obligations, our indemnity obligations could result in significant legal expenses or damages and cause our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow to suffer. We have determined that material weaknesses exist in our system of internal control over financial reporting, which could have a material impact on our business. Our ability to implement our business plan and comply with regulations requires an effective planning and management process. We expect that we will need to improve existing operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and implement new ones, to manage our future business effectively. Any implementation delays, or disruption in the transition to new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to forecast sales, manage our supply chain, and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. Furthermore we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting adequate to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We previously identified material weaknesses in our internal controls in connection with the restatement of our financial statements for fiscal 2010 and 2011 which have been remediated. In connection with the restatement of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended January 31, 2013, we determined that we have a material weakness as of July 31, 2013, namely that our controls over the evaluation and review of complex and non-routine transactions were not effective. In addition, we have determined that we have a material weakness as of July 31, 2013 relating to our controls over journal entries. Due to these material weaknesses, we have concluded that as of July 31, 2013, our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective. Until the complex and non-routine control deficiency and journal entries deficiency are fully remediated, it may be more difficult for us to manage our business, our results of operations could be harmed, our ability to report results accurately and on time could be impaired, investors may lose faith in the reliability of our statements, and the price of our securities may be materially impacted. We cannot assure you whether, or when, the control deficiency that is identified as material weaknesses will be fully remediated. We do not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. As a result, we cannot assure you that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. A material weakness means a deficiency, or combination 10 Table of Contents of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the registrant’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements. Any such failure could adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding disclosure controls and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We may be required to conduct product recalls, potentially triggering concerns with the safety and quality of our products, which could cause consumers to avoid our products and reduce our sales and net income. The sale of food products for human consumption involves risk of injury to consumers. We face risks associated with product recalls and liability claims if our products become adulterated, mislabeled or misbranded, or cause injury, illness or death. Our products may be subject to product tampering and to contamination and spoilage risks, such as mold, bacteria, insects and other pests, shell fragments, cross-contamination and off-flavor contamination. If any of our products were to be tampered with, or otherwise tainted and we were unable to detect it prior to shipment, our products could be subject to a recall. Recalls might also be required due to usage of raw materials provided by third-party ingredient suppliers. Such suppliers are required to supply material free of contamination, but may, on occasion, identify issues after selling material to Diamond manufacturing locations. Our ability to sell products could be reduced if governmental agencies conclude that our products have been tampered with, or that certain pesticides, herbicides or other chemicals used by growers have left harmful residues on portions of the crop or that the crop has been contaminated by aflatoxin or other agents. A significant product recall could cause our products to be unavailable for a period of time and reduce our sales. Adverse publicity could result in a loss of consumer confidence in our products, damage to our reputation and also reduce our sales for an extended period. Product recalls and product liability claims could increase our expenses and have an adverse effect on demand for our products and, consequently, reduce our sales, net income and liquidity. Government regulations could increase our costs of production and our business could be adversely affected. As a food company, we are subject to extensive government regulation, including regulation of the manufacturing, importation, processing, product quality, packaging, storage, distribution and labeling of our products. Furthermore, there may be changes in the legal and regulatory environment, and governmental entities or agencies in jurisdictions where we operate may impose new manufacturing, importation, processing, packaging, storage, distribution, labeling or other restrictions, which could increase our costs and affect our profitability. For example, various regulatory authorities and others have paid increasing attention to the effect on humans due to the consumption of acrylamide — a naturally-occurring chemical compound that is formed in the process of cooking many foods, including potato chips, and a potential carcinogen — and have imposed additional regulatory requirements. In the State of California, we are required to warn about the presence of acrylamide and other potential carcinogens in our products. If consumer concerns about acrylamide increase, demand for affected products could decline and our revenues and business could be harmed. Our manufacturing operations are subject to various national, regional or state and local laws and regulations that require us to obtain licenses relating to customs, health and safety, building and land use and environmental protection. We are also subject to environmental regulations governing the discharge into the air, and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials. New or amended statutes and regulations, increased production at our existing facilities and our expansion into new operations and jurisdictions may require us to obtain new licenses and permits, and could require us to change our methods of operations, which could be costly. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as possible criminal sanctions, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business. 11 Table of Contents A disruption at any of our production facilities would significantly decrease production, which could increase our cost of sales and reduce our net sales and income from operations. We process and package our products in several domestic and international facilities and also have co-manufacturing agreements and co-pack arrangements with third parties. A temporary or extended interruption in operations at any of our facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction or damage from fire, flood or earthquake, infrastructure failures such as power or water shortages, raw material shortage or any other reason, whether or not covered by insurance, could interrupt our manufacturing operations, disrupt communications with our customers and suppliers and cause us to lose sales and write off inventory. Any prolonged disruption in the operations of our facilities would have a significant negative impact on our ability to manufacture and package our products on our own and may cause us to seek additional third-party arrangements, thereby increasing production costs. These third parties may not be as efficient as we are and may not have the capabilities to process and package some of our products, which could adversely affect sales or operating income. Further, current and potential customers might not purchase our products if they perceive our lack of alternate manufacturing facilities to be a risk to their continuing source of products. Refer to Note 10 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on our consolidation of our manufacturing operations and closure of our facility in Fishers, Indiana. Changes in the food industry, including changing dietary trends and consumer preferences and adverse publicity about Diamond and the health effects of consuming some products could reduce demand for our products. Consumer tastes can change rapidly as a result of many factors, including shifting consumer preferences, dietary trends and purchasing patterns. To address consumer preferences, we invest significant resources in research and development of new products. Dietary trends, such as the consumption of food in low carbohydrate content, have in the past, and may in the future, harm our sales. If we fail to anticipate, identify or react to consumer trends, or if new products we develop do not achieve acceptance by retailers or consumers, demand for our products could decline, which would in turn cause our revenue and profitability to be lower. In addition, some of our products contain sodium, preservatives and other ingredients, the health effects of which are the subject of increasing public scrutiny, including the suggestion that excessive consumption of these ingredients can lead to a variety of adverse health effects. In the United States and other countries, there is increasing consumer awareness of health risks, including obesity, associated with consumption of these ingredients, as well as increased consumer litigation based on alleged adverse health impacts of consumption of various food products. A continuing global focus on health and wellness, including weight management, and increasing media attention to the role of food marketing, could adversely affect our sales or lead to stricter regulations and greater scrutiny of food marketing practices. Moreover, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine consumer confidence or customer relations, and reduce demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. Raw materials that are key ingredients to our products are subject to fluctuations in availability and price that could adversely impact our business and financial results. The availability, size, quality and cost of raw materials for the production and packaging of our products, including nuts, potatoes, corn and corn products, cooking and vegetable oils, corrugate, resins and other commodities, are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions, governmental agricultural and energy programs, exchange rates for foreign currencies and consumer demand. In particular, the availability and cost of walnuts and other nuts are subject to supply contract renewals, crop size, quality, yield fluctuations, changes in governmental regulation, as well as other factors. 12 Table of Contents We source walnuts primarily from growers with whom we have entered into walnut purchase agreements. To the extent contracted growers deliver less supply than we expected or we are unable to renew enough walnut purchase agreements or enter into such agreements with new growers in any particular year, we may not have sufficient walnut supply under contract to satisfy our business requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our sales and our results of operations. To obtain sufficient walnut supply, which represents a significant portion of our cost of goods sold, we may be required to purchase walnuts from third parties at substantially higher prices or forgo sales to some market segments, which would reduce our profitability. If we forgo sales to such market segments, we may lose customers and may not be able to replace them later. Given our fixed costs from our manufacturing facilities, if we have a lower supply of walnuts or other raw materials, our unit costs will increase and our gross margin will decline. We make estimates of the price we will pay for walnuts to growers under contract starting in the first quarter of our fiscal year and, pursuant to our accounting policies, finalize the price to be paid to growers by the end of the fiscal year. The selling price to customers for walnuts fluctuates throughout the year depending on market forces. To the extent that we underestimate the price to be paid for walnuts and enter into contracts with our customers for products including walnuts at prices prevailing at the market at that time and based on walnut cost estimates that ultimately prove to be below the final price we determine to pay to growers, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Each year some of our walnut supply agreements are up for renewal, and competition among walnut handlers makes renewal with us uncertain. Disruption in our walnut supply and inability to secure walnuts cost effectively may adversely impact our business and our financial results. Our potato chip products are dependent on suppliers providing us with an adequate supply of quality potatoes on a timely basis. The failure of our suppliers to meet our specifications, quality standards or delivery schedules could have an adverse effect on our potato chip operations. In particular, a sudden scarcity, substantial price increase, quality issues or unavailability of ingredients could adversely affect our operating results. There can be no assurance that alternative ingredients would be available when needed on commercially attractive terms, if at all. In addition, high commodity prices could lead to unexpected costs and price increases of our products which might dampen growth of consumer demand for our products. If we are unable to increase productivity to offset these increased costs or increase our prices, this could substantially harm our business and results of operations. If the parties we depend upon for raw material supplies do not perform adequately, our ability to manufacture our products may be impaired, which could harm our business and results of operations. We rely on third-party suppliers for the raw materials we use to manufacture our products, and our ability to manufacture our products depends on receiving adequate supplies on a timely basis, which may be difficult or uneconomical to procure. If we do not maintain good relationships with suppliers that are important to us or are unable to identify a replacement supplier or develop our own sourcing capabilities, our ability to manufacture our products may be harmed, which would result in interruptions in our business. In addition, even if we are able to find replacement suppliers when needed, we may not be able to enter into agreements with them on favorable terms and conditions, which could increase our costs of production. The occurrence of any of these risks could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Increased costs associated with product processing and transportation, such as water, electricity, natural gas and fuel costs, could increase our expenses and reduce our profitability. We require a substantial amount of energy and water to make our products. Transportation costs, including fuel and labor, also represent a significant portion of the cost of our products, because we use third party truck and rail companies to collect our raw materials and deliver our products to our distributors and customers. These costs fluctuate significantly over time due to factors that may be beyond our control, including increased fuel prices, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters, employee strikes and increased export and import restrictions. We may not be able to pass on increased costs of production or transportation to our customers. In addition, from time to time, transportation service providers have a backlog of shipping requests, which could 13 Table of Contents impact our ability to ship products in a timely fashion. Increases in the cost of water, electricity, natural gas, fuel or labor and failure to ship products on time, could increase our costs of production and adversely affect our profitability. If we are unable to compete effectively in the markets in which we operate, our sales and profitability would be negatively affected. In general, competition in our markets is highly competitive and based on product quality, price, and brand recognition and loyalty. As a result, there are ongoing competitive product and pricing pressures in the markets in which we operate, as well as challenges in establishing and maintaining profit margins. Our products compete against food and snack products sold by many regional and national companies, some of which are substantially larger and have greater resources than we have. The greater scale and resources that may be available to our competitors could provide them with the ability to lower prices or increase their promotional or marketing spending to compete more effectively. To address these challenges, we must be able to successfully respond to competitive factors, including pricing; promotional incentives and trade terms. We may need to reduce our prices or increase promotional incentives in response to competition or to grow or maintain our market share. If we decide to reduce or eliminate promotional incentives to improve our profitability, we may not be able to compete effectively and we may lose distribution and market share, which could also lead to a decline in revenue. Competition and customer pressures may restrict our ability to increase prices in response to commodity or other cost increases. We may also need to increase spending on marketing, advertising and new product innovation to maintain or increase our market share. If we are unable to compete effectively, we could be unable to increase the breadth of the distribution of our products or lose customers or distribution of products, which could have an adverse impact on our sales and profitability. In addition, if we are required to maintain high levels of promotional incentives or trade terms with respect to particular product lines, our margins and profitability would be adversely effected. The loss of any major customer could decrease sales and adversely impact our net income. We depend on a few significant customers for a large proportion of our net sales. This concentration has become more pronounced with the trend toward consolidation in the retail grocery store industry. Sales to our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (which includes sales to both Sam’s Club and Wal-Mart), represented approximately 16%, 18%, and 15% of our total net sales in fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011 respectively. Sales to our second largest customer, Costco Wholesale Corporation, represented approximately 9%, 12%, and 11% of our total net sales in fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to successfully manage relationships with these customers, or any other significant customer. Further, there is a continuing trend towards retail trade consolidation, which can create significant cost and margin pressure on our business. The loss of any major customers, or any other significant customer, or a material decrease in their purchases from us, could result in decreased sales and adversely impact our net income. The consolidation of retail customers could adversely affect us. Retail customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, continue to consolidate, resulting in fewer customers on which we can rely for business. Consolidation also produces large, more sophisticated retail customers that can resist price increases and demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs or specifically tailored products. In addition, larger retailers have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own retailer brands. Further retail consolidation and increasing retail power could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. Retail consolidation also increases the risk that adverse changes in our customers’ business operations or financial performance will have a corresponding material effect on us. For example, if our customers cannot access sufficient funds or financing, then they may delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products, or delay or fail to pay us for previous purchases. 14 Table of Contents If we need to compete with other manufacturers or with retailer brands on the basis of price, our business and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Our branded products face competition from private label products that at times may be sold at lower price points. The impact of price gaps between our products and private label products may result in share erosion and harm our business. A number of our competitors have broader product lines, substantially greater financial and other resources and/or lower fixed costs than we have. Our competitors may succeed in developing new or enhanced products that are more attractive to customers or consumers than ours. These competitors may also prove to be more successful in marketing and selling their products than we are; and may be better able to increase prices to reflect cost pressures. We may not compete successfully with these other companies or maintain or grow the distribution of our products. We cannot predict the pricing, commodity costs, or promotional activities of our competitors or whether they will have a negative effect on us. Many of our competitors engage in aggressive pricing and promotional activities. There are competitive pressures and other factors which could cause our products to lose market share or decline in sales or result in significant price or margin erosion, which would have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our proprietary brands and packaging designs are essential to the value of our business, and the inability to protect, and costs associated with protecting, our intellectual property could harm the value of our brands and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our success depends significantly on our know-how and other intellectual property. We rely on a combination of trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, patents, copyrights and similar rights to protect our intellectual property. Our success also depends in large part on our continued ability to use existing trademarks and service marks in order to maintain and increase brand awareness and further develop our brand. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate, third parties may misappropriate or infringe on our intellectual property or develop more efficient and advanced technologies, our patents expire over time and third parties may use such previously patented technology to compete against us, and our third-party manufacturers and partners may disclose our trade secrets. From time to time, we engage in litigation to protect our intellectual property, which could result in substantial costs as well as diversion of management attention. The occurrence of any of these risks could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We depend on our key personnel and if we lose the services of any of these individuals, or fail to attract and retain additional key personnel, we may not be able to implement our business strategy or operate our business effectively. Our future success largely depends on the contributions of our senior management team. We believe that these individuals’ expertise and knowledge about our industry and their respective fields and their relationships with other individuals in our industry are critical factors to our continued growth and success. We do not carry key person insurance. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management team and the failure to hire and retain qualified management and other key personnel could have an adverse effect on our business and prospects. Our success also depends upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified sales, marketing and other personnel. Economic downturns may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions may negatively affect our business and financial results. For example, instability in the global credit markets, including the recent European economic and financial turmoil, or federal funding cuts in the United States, may lead to slower growth or recession in European or United States markets where we sell our products. These economic conditions could negatively impact consumer demand for our products, the mix of our products’ sales, our ability to collect accounts receivable on a timely basis, the ability of suppliers to provide the materials required in our operations, and our ability to obtain financing or to otherwise 15 Table of Contents access the capital markets. Additionally, unfavorable economic conditions could have an impact on our lenders or customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. The occurrence of any of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The acquisition or divestiture of other product lines or businesses could pose risks to our business and the market price of our common stock. We may review acquisition prospects that we believe could complement our existing business. There is no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, negotiating or consummating any future acquisitions. Any such future acquisitions could result in accounting charges, potentially dilutive issuances of stock and increased debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could have a material effect on our business and the market price of our common stock. Acquisitions entail many financial, managerial and operational risks, including difficulties integrating the acquired operations, effective and immediate implementation of internal control over financial reporting, diversion of management attention during the negotiation and integration phases, uncertainty entering markets in which we have limited prior experience, and potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. We may be unable to integrate product lines or businesses that we acquire, which could have a material effect on our business and on the market price of our common stock. We may evaluate the various components of our portfolio of businesses and may, as a result, explore divesting such products or businesses. Divestitures have inherent risks, including possible delays in closing transactions (including potential difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals), the risk of lower-than-expected sales proceeds for the divested businesses, unexpected costs associated with the separation of the business to be sold from our integrated information technology systems and other operating systems and potential post-closing claims for indemnification. In addition, adverse economic or market conditions may result in fewer potential bidders and unsuccessful divestiture efforts. Transaction costs may be high, and expected cost savings, which are offset by revenue losses from divested businesses, may be difficult to achieve, and we may experience varying success in reducing costs or transferring liabilities previously associated with the divested businesses. In addition, acquisitions or divestitures may result in litigation that can be expensive and divert management’s attention and resources from our core business. Our business and operations could be negatively impacted if we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations. The success of our business depends substantially upon our ability to maintain satisfactory relations with our employees. Our production workforce in one of our facilities is covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Strikes or work stoppages and interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew this agreement on satisfactory terms. If a work stoppage or slow down were to occur, it could adversely affect our business and disrupt our operations. The terms and conditions of existing or renegotiated agreements also could increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to our business. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by the political and economic conditions of the countries in which we conduct business and other factors related to our international operations. We conduct a substantial amount of business with vendors and customers located outside the United States. During fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012, and fiscal 2011, sales outside the United States, primarily in the United Kingdom, Canada, South Korea, Japan, Germany, Netherlands, Turkey, China and Spain accounted for approximately 24%, 23% and 30% of our net sales, respectively. Many factors relating to our international operations and to particular countries in which we operate could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These factors include: • negative economic developments in economies around the world and the instability of governments, including the threat of war, terrorist attacks, epidemic or civil unrest; 16 Table of Contents • pandemics, such as the flu, which may adversely affect our workforce as well as our local suppliers and customers; • earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or other major disasters that may limit the supply of nuts or other products that we purchase abroad; • tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements imposed by governments; • foreign currency exchange and transfer restrictions; • increased costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation; • differing labor standards; • differing levels of protection of intellectual property; • difficulties and costs associated with complying with U.S. laws and regulations applicable to entities with overseas operations; • the threat that our operations or property could be subject to nationalization and expropriation; • varying regulatory, tax, judicial and administrative practices in the jurisdictions where we operate; • difficulties associated with operating under a wide variety of complex foreign laws, treaties and regulations; and • potentially burdensome taxation. Any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A material impairment in the carrying value of acquired goodwill or other intangible assets could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. A significant portion of our assets are goodwill and other intangible assets, the majority of which are not amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment. If the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current fair value, the asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value resulting in a non-cash charge to earnings. Events and conditions that could result in impairment include a sustained drop in the market price of our common stock, increased competition or loss of market share, product innovation or obsolescence, or product claims that result in a significant loss of sales or profitability over the product life. To the extent our market capitalization, increased by a reasonable control premium, results in a fair value of our common stock that is below our net book value, or if other indicators of potential impairment are present, then we will be required to take further steps to determine if an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets has occurred and to calculate an impairment loss. Based on our intangible asset impairment test as of June 30, 2013, we determined that the Kettle U.S. trade name within the Snacks segment was impaired. We recorded a $36.0 million impairment charge within the asset impairments line on the consolidated statement of operations. For further information refer to Note 6 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. If there are future changes in our stock price, or significant changes in the business climate or operating results of our reporting units, we may incur additional impairment charges related to this trade name or our other intangible assets and goodwill. At July 31, 2012, the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately $840.2 million, compared to total assets of approximately $1,299.3 million and total shareholders’ equity of approximately $324.8 million. At July 31, 2013, the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately $789.2 million, compared to total assets of approximately $1,172.3 million and total shareholders’ equity of approximately $166.7 million. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to Indebtedness We are highly leveraged and have substantial debt service requirements that could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our debt obligations, place us at a competitive disadvantage in our industry and limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry. We have incurred a substantial amount of indebtedness and our high debt service requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate our business, and might limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay the principal of, or interest on, our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs, including working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts and other general corporate requirements. This high degree of leverage could have other important consequences for us, including: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because our secured credit facility is at variable rates of interest; • making it more difficult to satisfy obligations with respect to our indebtedness, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, which could result in an event of default under the agreements governing the indebtedness; • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors who are less highly leveraged and who therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from pursuing. Our debt agreements contain representations, warranties, affirmative and negative covenants and financial ratios, and any failure to satisfy these requirements could adversely affect our business. A breach of any of the representations, warranties or affirmative and negative covenants contained in our credit facilities and outstanding senior notes, or other financing arrangements, including our inability to comply with the financial ratios required under any of those arrangements, could trigger events of default. As a result of the errors identified causing the restatement of our fiscal 2010, fiscal 2011 and second quarter fiscal 2013 consolidated financial statements, we were in default under our secured credit facility and other financing arrangements for failing to comply with certain representations and warranties and not complying with our covenants, including delivering financial statements in a timely manner and maintaining specified financial ratios. Although we have obtained waivers from our lenders for events of default to date, if any further events of default occur and we are not able either to cure it or to obtain a waiver from the requisite lenders or noteholders, our lenders or note holders may declare outstanding obligations, with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable. Such acceleration of our outstanding financial obligations could result in additional lenders or noteholders declaring other outstanding obligations to be immediately due and payable. In addition, upon any event of default, the administrative agent under our secured credit facility may, and at the request of the requisite lenders shall, terminate the lenders’ commitments under the revolving credit facility and cease making further loans and could institute foreclosure proceedings against our pledged assets. 18 Table of Contents Our debt agreements contain restrictions that may limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our secured credit facility, our outstanding senior notes and our other financing arrangements contain various covenants that may limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things: • incur indebtedness, including capital leases; • make investments or other capital expenditures; • sell assets; • create liens; • acquire other companies and businesses; • borrow additional funds under new revolving credit facilities; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; • make restricted payments, which could limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock; and • enter into transactions with our affiliates. Under our secured credit facility we are required to have at least $20 million of cash, cash equivalents and revolving credit available at all times, beginning February 1, 2013. As of July 31, 2013, the revolving credit facility had $230 million in capacity, of which $154 million was outstanding. The capacity under the revolving credit facility will decrease to $180 million effective January 31, 2014. We believe we will have sufficient liquidity for at least the next twelve months to meet this covenant. Additionally, beginning on October 31, 2013, our Consolidated Senior Leverage Ratio, as defined in the Third Amendment to the Secured Credit Facility, will be limited to no more than 4.70 to 1.00 and the fixed charge coverage ratio to no less than 2.00 to 1.00. The Consolidated Senior Leverage Ratio, as defined in the Third Amendment, will decline each quarter, ultimately to 3.25 to 1.00 in the quarter ending July 31, 2014. A breach of any of these covenants could result in an event of default, which could harm our liquidity and financial condition. We are highly leveraged and have substantial debt service obligations, which could affect our ability to raise additional capital or fund our operations. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to take any of these actions, or they may not be sufficient for us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. If our operating results are not adequate and we are not able to secure adequate capital resources, we could face liquidity problems and be required to dispose of assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Since our existing debt agreements restrict our ability to dispose of assets, we may not be able to consummate those dispositions, which could impair our ability to meet our debt service obligations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock is volatile and may result in investors selling shares of our common stock at a loss. The trading price of our common stock is volatile and subject to fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; • changes in our revenues, earnings, prospects or recommendations of securities analysts who follow our stock or our industry; 19 Table of Contents • publication of research reports about us or our industry by any securities analysts who follow our stock or our industry; • speculation in the press or investment community; • terrorist acts; • general market conditions, including economic factors unrelated to our performance; • an outstanding warrant, which is accounted for as a derivative liability with gains or losses included in (gain) loss on warrant liability in our statements of operations; and • the results and outcome of ongoing securities class action litigation and governmental investigations. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price, particularly when the stock price drops. Defending litigation of this type could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our core business. We are currently involved in securities class action litigation, as well as shareholder derivative litigation, and we may be involved in similar litigation in the future. The private equity firm Oaktree Capital Management may have interests that diverge from our interests and the interests of our other security holders. Oaktree Capital Management L.P. (“Oaktree”), which is one of our creditors and beneficially owns a significant equity position in Diamond through its warrant holdings may have interests that diverge from our interests and the interests of our stockholders. In addition, so long as Oaktree maintains ownership of specified thresholds of its warrant and senior note holdings, it will have the right to nominate up to two members of our board of directors and will be entitled to certain information rights and a right to participate in future offerings of our equity securities. Oaktree is in the business of investing in companies and is not restricted from investing in our current or future competitors. Future events may give rise to a divergence of interests between Oaktree and us or our other security holders. A substantial number of shares of our common stock may be issued upon exercise of an outstanding warrant issued to Oaktree, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Oaktree is the holder of a warrant to purchase up to approximately 4.4 million shares of our common stock, which is currently exercisable. The warrant is accounted for as a derivative liability with gains or losses included in (gain) loss on warrant liability in our statements of operations. If the warrant is exercised, the volatility in the trading price of our common stock may increase. We are obligated to issue a substantial number of shares in connection with our recent securities litigation settlement agreement, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In connection with an agreement that we entered into to settle a private securities class action against us and two of our former officers, we agreed to pay a total of $11.0 million in cash and issue approximately 4.45 million shares of our common stock to a settlement fund. The timing of issuance has not yet been determined, and we have the ability to privately place, or conduct a public offering of, the shares with the consent of the lead plaintiff and its counsel prior to distribution of the settlement fund. In that event, the settlement fund would include the proceeds of the offering in lieu of the settlement shares. Any such issuance of shares, when and if it occurs, will have a dilutive effect on our total outstanding shares, and may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Until the settlement shares are distributed, the liability associated with the agreement to issue the settlement shares will be adjusted from period to period based on changes in our stock price, with the effect of the change included in our statement of operations. 20 Table of Contents Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from executing our growth strategy. The timing and amount of our working capital and capital expenditure requirements may vary significantly as a result of many factors, including: • market acceptance of our products; • the need to make large capital expenditures to support and expand production capacity; • the existence of opportunities for expansion; and • access to and availability of sufficient management, technical, marketing and financial personnel. If our capital resources are not sufficient to satisfy our liquidity needs, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain other debt financing. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional debt would result in increased expenses and could result in covenants that would restrict our operations. With the exception of the secured credit facility, we have not made arrangements to obtain additional financing. We may not be able to obtain additional financing, if required, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan and will issue one preferred stock purchase right with each share of our common stock that we issue. Each right will entitle the holder to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of our Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock. Under certain circumstances, if a person or group acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock, holders of the rights (other than the person or group triggering their exercise) will be able to purchase, in exchange for the $60.00 exercise price, shares of our common stock or of any company into which we are merged having a value of $120.00. The rights expire in March 2015 unless extended by our board of directors. Because the rights may substantially dilute the stock ownership of a person or group attempting to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors, our rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us (or a significant percentage of our outstanding capital stock) without first negotiating with our board of directors regarding such acquisition. In connection with the sale and issuance of notes and warrant to Oaktree, we amended the stockholder rights plan to exclude such securities from triggering such rights plan. In addition, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock (of which 500,000 shares have been designated as Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock) and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock may be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Further, some provisions of our charter documents, including provisions establishing a classified board of directors, eliminating the ability of stockholders to take action by written consent and limiting the ability of stockholders to raise matters at a meeting of stockholders without giving advance notice, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or our management, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. Further, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which will prohibit an “interested stockholder” from engaging in a “business combination” with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, even if such combination is favored by a majority of stockholders, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. All of the foregoing could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or management. 21 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 