Item 1A. Risk Factors This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed or implied in such forward-looking statements due to such risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed below, in the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and elsewhere in this report. Risks Related to Our Business We may be required to conduct product recalls and concerns with the safety and quality of food products could cause consumers to avoid our products and reduce our sales, net income, and liquidity. The sale of food products for human consumption involves risk of injury to consumers. We face risks associated with product recalls and liability claims if our products become adulterated, mislabeled or misbranded, or cause injury, illness or death. Our products may be subject to product tampering and to contamination and spoilage risks, such as mold, bacteria, insects and other pests, shell fragments, cross-contamination and off-flavor contamination. If any of our products were to be tampered with, or otherwise tainted and we were unable to detect it prior to shipment, our products could be subject to a recall. Our ability to sell products could be reduced if governmental agencies conclude that our products have been tampered with, or that certain pesticides, herbicides or other chemicals used by growers have left harmful residues on portions of the crop or that the crop has been contaminated by aflatoxin or other agents. A significant product recall could cause our products to be unavailable for a period of time and reduce our sales. Adverse publicity could result in a loss of consumer confidence in our products, damage to our reputation and also reduce our sales for an extended period. Product recalls and product liability claims could increase our expenses and have an adverse effect on demand for our products and, consequently, reduce our sales, net income and liquidity. Government regulations could increase our costs of production and our business could be adversely affected. As a food company, we are subject to extensive government regulation, including regulation of the manufacturing, importation, processing, product quality, packaging, storage, distribution and labeling of our products. Furthermore, there may be changes in the legal and regulatory environment, and governmental entities or agencies in jurisdictions where we operate may impose new manufacturing, importation, processing, packaging, storage, distribution, labeling or other restrictions, which could increase our costs and affect our profitability. For example, various regulatory authorities and others have paid increasing attention to the effect on humans due to the consumption of acrylamide — a naturally-occurring chemical compound that is formed in the process of cooking many foods, including potato chips, and a potential carcinogen — and have imposed additional regulatory requirements. In the State of California, we are required to warn about the presence of acrylamide and other potential carcinogens in our products. If consumer concerns about acrylamide increase, demand for affected products could decline and our revenues and business could be harmed. Our manufacturing operations are subject to various national, regional or state and local laws and regulations that require us to obtain licenses relating to customs, health and safety, building and land use and environmental protection. We are also subject to environmental regulations governing the discharge into the air, and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials. New or amended statutes and regulations, increased production at our existing facilities, and our expansion into new operations and jurisdictions may require us to obtain new licenses 7 Table of Contents and permits, and could require us to change our methods of operations, which could be costly. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as possible criminal sanctions, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business. A disruption at any of our production facilities would significantly decrease production, which could increase our cost of sales and reduce our net sales and income from operations. We process and package our products in several domestic and international facilities and also have co-manufacturing agreements and co-pack arrangements with third parties. A temporary or extended interruption in operations at any of our facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction or damage from fire, flood or earthquake, infrastructure failures such as power or water shortages, raw material shortage or any other reason, whether or not covered by insurance, could interrupt our manufacturing operations, disrupt communications with our customers and suppliers and cause us to lose sales and write off inventory. Any prolonged disruption in the operations of our facilities would have a significant negative impact on our ability to manufacture and package our products on our own and may cause us to seek additional third-party arrangements, thereby increasing production costs. These third parties may not be as efficient as we are and may not have the capabilities to process and package some of our products, which could adversely affect sales or operating income. Further, current and potential customers might not purchase our products if they perceive our lack of alternate manufacturing facilities to be a risk to their continuing source of products. The acquisition of other product lines or businesses could pose risks to our business and the market price of our common stock. We intend to review acquisition prospects that we believe could complement our existing business. Any such future acquisitions could result in accounting charges, potentially dilutive issuances of stock, and increased debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and the market price of our common stock. Acquisitions entail many financial, managerial and operational risks, including difficulties integrating the acquired operations, effective and immediate implementation of internal controls over financial reporting, diversion of management attention during the negotiation and integration phases, uncertainty entering markets in which we have limited prior experience, and potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. We may be unable to integrate product lines or businesses that we acquire, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and on the market price of our common stock. If we do not complete our acquisition of Pringles, our business, reputation and financial condition will be adversely affected. In April 2011, we entered into an agreement to acquire the Pringles snack business from The Procter & Gamble Company (“P&G”). The value of the proposed transaction at April 5, 2011 was approximately $2.35 billion, consisting of $1.5 billion of our common stock and the assumption of $850 million of Pringles debt. The number of shares of our common stock to be issued in the transaction was based on $1.5 billion divided by the average of 60 days of daily volume weighted average prices (“VWAP”), or 60-day VWAP, of our common stock for the period ended March 28, 2011 of $51.47, which amounted to approximately 29.1 million shares of our common stock to be issued to Pringles stockholders in connection with the transaction. As of September 14, 2011, the value of the approximately 29.1 million shares of our common stock to be issued in the transaction was $2.2 billion. The transaction, which we expect to be completed by the end of 2011, is subject to approval by our stockholders and satisfaction of customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. We cannot provide assurance that the acquisition of Pringles will be completed on schedule, or at all. If the acquisition is not completed, the share price of our common stock may drop to the extent that the market price of our stock reflects an assumption that a transaction will be completed. If we do not complete the Pringles acquisition, we will have incurred substantial expenses and diverted significant management time and resources from our ongoing business, without receiving any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. In addition, we could be required to pay P&G a termination fee of approximately $60 million. If the Pringles acquisition is not consummated, our business, reputation and financial condition will be adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents If we do complete the Pringles acquisition, we may not realize some or all of its anticipated benefits, and we may encounter future difficulties with the integration of Pringles operations with our business. Changes in the food industry, including changing dietary trends and consumer preferences and adverse publicity about the health effects of consuming some products, could reduce demand for our products. Consumer tastes can change rapidly as a result of many factors, including shifting consumer preferences, dietary trends and purchasing patterns. Our growth is largely dependent on the snack market, where consumer preferences are particularly unpredictable. To address consumer preferences, we invest significant resources in research and development of new products. If we fail to anticipate, identify or react to consumer trends, or if new products we develop do not achieve acceptance by retailers or consumers, demand for our products could decline, which would in turn cause our revenue and profitability to be lower. In addition, some of our products contain sodium, preservatives and other ingredients, the health effects of which are the subject of increasing public scrutiny, including the suggestion that excessive consumption of these ingredients can lead to a variety of adverse health effects. In the United States and other countries, there is increasing consumer awareness of health risks, including obesity, associated with consumption of these ingredients, as well as increased consumer litigation based on alleged adverse health impacts of consumption of various food products. A continuing global focus on health and wellness, including weight management, and increasing media attention to the role of food marketing, could adversely affect our brand’s image or lead to stricter regulations and greater scrutiny of food marketing practices. Increased legal or regulatory restrictions on our advertising, consumer promotions and marketing, or our response to such restrictions, could limit its efforts to maintain, extend and expand its brands. Moreover, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage its reputation and brand image, undermine customers’ confidence and reduce long-term demand for its products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. Increased costs associated with product processing and transportation, such as water, electricity, natural gas and fuel costs, could increase our expenses and reduce our profitability. We require a substantial amount of energy and water to process our products. Transportation costs, including fuel and labor, also represent a significant portion of the cost of our products, because we use third party truck and rail companies to collect our raw materials and deliver our products to our distributors and customers. These costs fluctuate significantly over time due to factors that may be beyond our control, including increased fuel prices, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters, employee strikes and increased export and import restrictions. We may not be able to pass on increased costs of production or transportation to our customers. In addition, from time to time, transportation service providers have a backlog of shipping requests, which could impact our ability to ship products in a timely fashion. Increases in the cost of water, electricity, natural gas, fuel or labor, and failure to ship products on time, could increase our costs of production and adversely affect our profitability. Our raw materials are subject to fluctuations in availability and price. The availability, size, quality and cost of raw materials for the production and packaging of our products, including nuts, potatoes, corn and corn products, cooking and vegetable oils, corrugate, resins and other commodities, are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions, governmental agricultural and energy programs, exchange rates for foreign currencies and consumer demand. For example, our potato chip products are dependent on suppliers providing us with an adequate supply of quality potatoes on a timely basis. The failure of suppliers to meet the specifications, quality standards or delivery schedules could have an adverse effect on our potato chip operations. In particular, a sudden scarcity, substantial price increase, or unavailability of ingredients could adversely affect our operating results. There can be no assurance that alternative ingredients would be available when needed on commercially attractive terms, if at all. In addition, high commodity prices could lead to unexpected costs and price increases of our products which might 9 Table of Contents dampen growth of consumer demand for our products. If we are unable to increase productivity to offset these increased costs or increase our prices, this could substantially harm our business and results of operations. If the parties we depend upon for raw material supplies do not perform adequately, our ability to manufacture our products may be impaired, which could harm our business and results of operations. We rely on third-party suppliers for the raw materials we use to manufacture our products, and our ability to manufacture our products depends on receiving adequate supplies on a timely basis, which may be difficult or uneconomical to procure. If we do not maintain good relationships with suppliers that are important to us or are unable to identify a replacement supplier or develop our own sourcing capabilities, our ability to manufacture our products may be harmed, which would result in interruptions in our business. In addition, even if we are able to find replacement suppliers when needed, we may not be able to enter into agreements with them on favorable terms and conditions, which could increase our costs of production. The occurrence of any of these risks could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we are unable to compete effectively in the markets in which we operate, our sales and profitability would be negatively affected. In general, competition in our markets is highly competitive and based on product quality, price, brand recognition and brand loyalty. As a result, there are ongoing competitive product and pricing pressures in the markets in which we operate, as well as challenges in maintaining profit margins. Our products compete against food and snack products sold by many regional and national companies, some of which are substantially larger and have greater resources than we have. The greater scale and resources that may be available to our competitors could provide them with the ability to lower prices or increase their promotional or marketing spending to compete more effectively. To address these challenges, we must be able to successfully respond to competitive factors, including pricing, promotional incentives and trade terms. We may need to reduce our prices in response to competition and to maintain our market share. Competition and customer pressures may restrict our ability to increase prices in response to commodity or other cost increases. We may also need to increase spending on marketing, advertising and new product innovation to maintain or increase our market share. If we are unable to compete effectively, we could be unable to increase the breadth of the distribution of our products or lose customers or distribution of products, which could have an adverse impact on our sales and profitability. The loss of any major customer could decrease sales and adversely impact our net income. We depend on a few significant customers for a large proportion of our net sales. This concentration has become more pronounced with the trend toward consolidation in the retail grocery store industry. Sales to our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (which includes sales to both Sam’s Club and Wal-Mart), represented approximately 15% of our total net sales for the year ended July 31, 2011. Sales to our second largest customer, Costco Wholesale Corporation, represented 11% of our total net sales for the year ended July 31, 2011. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to successfully manage relationships with these customers, or any other significant customer. Further, there is a continuing trend towards retail trade consolidation, which can create significant cost and margin pressure on our business. The loss of any major customers, or any other significant customer, or a material decrease in their purchases from us, could result in decreased sales and adversely impact our net income. Our proprietary brands and packaging designs are essential to the value of our business, and the inability to protect, and costs associated with protecting, our intellectual property could harm the value of our brands and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our success depends significantly on our know-how and other intellectual property. We rely on a combination of trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, patents, copyrights and similar rights to protect our intellectual property. Our success also depends in large part on our continued ability to use existing trademarks and service marks in order to maintain and increase brand awareness and further develop our brand. 10 Table of Contents Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate, third parties may misappropriate or infringe on our intellectual property or develop more efficient and advanced technologies, our patents expire over time and third parties may use such previously patented technology to compete against us, and our third-party manufacturers and partners may disclose our trade secrets. From time to time, we engage in litigation to protect our intellectual property, which could result in substantial costs as well as diversion of management attention. The occurrence of any of these risks could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We depend on our key personnel and if we lose the services of any of these individuals, or fail to attract and retain additional key personnel, we may not be able to implement our business strategy or operate our business effectively. Our future success largely depends on the contributions of our senior management team. We believe that these individuals’ expertise and knowledge about our industry and their respective fields and their relationships with other individuals in our industry are critical factors to our continued growth and success. We do not carry key person insurance. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management team could have an adverse effect on our business and prospects. Our success also depends upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified sales, marketing and other personnel. Economic downturns may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions may negatively affect our business and financial results. These economic conditions could negatively impact consumer demand for our products, the mix of our products’ sales, our ability to collect accounts receivable on a timely basis, the ability of suppliers to provide the materials required in our operations and our ability to obtain financing or to otherwise access the capital markets. Additionally, unfavorable economic conditions could have an impact on our lenders or customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. The occurrence of any of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business and operations could be negatively impacted if we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations. The success of our business depends substantially upon our ability to maintain satisfactory relations with our employees. Our production workforce in one of our facilities belongs to a union and is covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Strikes or work stoppages and interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew this agreement on satisfactory terms. If a work stoppage or slow down were to occur, it could adversely affect our business and disrupt our operations. The terms and conditions of existing or renegotiated agreements also could increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to our business. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by the political and economic conditions of the countries in which we conduct business and other factors related to our international operations. We conduct a substantial amount of business with vendors and customers located outside the United States. During 2011, sales outside the United States, primarily in the United Kingdom, Canada, South Korea, Japan, Germany, Netherlands, Turkey, China, and Spain accounted for approximately 30.0% of our net sales. With the pending merger with Pringles, we expect a substantial increase in the percentage of our products sold in countries other than the United States. In addition, we expect an increase of our operations and employees that are located outside of the United States. Many factors relating to our international operations and to particular countries in which we operate could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These factors include: • negative economic developments in economies around the world and the instability of governments, including the threat of war, terrorist attacks, epidemic or civil unrest; 11 Table of Contents • adverse changes in laws and governmental policies, especially those affecting trade and investment; • pandemics, such as the flu, which may adversely affect our workforce as well as our local suppliers and customers; • earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or other major disasters which may limit the supply of nuts or other products that we purchase abroad; • tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements imposed by governments; • foreign currency exchange and transfer restrictions; • increased costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation; • differing labor standards; • differing levels of protection of intellectual property; • difficulties and costs associated with complying with U.S. laws and regulations applicable to entities with overseas operations; • the threat that our operations or property could be subject to nationalization and expropriation; • varying practices of the regulatory, tax, judicial and administrative bodies in the jurisdictions where we operate, including without limitation potentially negative consequences from changes in anti-competition laws; • difficulties and costs associated with complying with, and enforcing remedies under, a wide variety of complex foreign laws, treaties and regulations; and • potentially burdensome taxation and changes in foreign tax laws. The occurrence of any of these international business risks could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A material impairment in the carrying value of acquired goodwill or other intangible assets could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. A significant portion of our assets is goodwill and other intangible assets, the majority of which are not amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment. If the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current fair value, the asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value resulting in a non-cash charge to earnings. Events and conditions that could result in impairment include a sustained drop in the market price of our common stock, increased competition or loss of market share, product innovation or obsolescence, or product claims that result in a significant loss of sales or profitability over the product life. At July 31, 2011, the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately $858.4 million, compared to total assets of approximately $1,288.4 million and total shareholders’ equity of approximately $454.8 million. Risks Related to Indebtedness As a result of our acquisition of Kettle Foods, we are highly leveraged, which could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry. In connection with the Kettle Foods acquisition, we entered into a Secured Credit Facility and incurred a substantial amount of additional debt. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flow from operations sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service 12 Table of Contents obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to take any of these actions, and these actions may not be successful or permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations and these actions may not be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Since our debt agreements restrict our ability to dispose of assets, we may not be able to consummate such dispositions, and this could result in our inability to meet our debt service obligations. This high degree of leverage could have other important consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because our secured credit facility is at variable rates of interest; • making it more difficult to satisfy obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing the indebtedness; • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors who are less highly leveraged and who therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from pursuing. Despite our high initial indebtedness level, we may be able to incur significant additional amounts of debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although existing agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ existing debt levels, the related risks that we now face would increase. The debt agreements contain restrictions that may limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our secured credit facility contains various covenants that may limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things: • make certain investments or other capital expenditures; • sell assets; • create liens; • acquire other companies and businesses; • borrow additional funds under new revolving credit facilities; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default of the secured credit facility agreement. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the secured credit facility, the lenders could elect to declare all 13 Table of Contents amounts outstanding under the secured credit facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the secured credit facility could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock is volatile and may result in investors selling shares of our common stock at a loss. The trading price of our common stock is volatile and subject to fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; • changes in our revenues or earnings estimates or recommendations by any securities analysts who may decide to follow our stock or our industry; • publication of research reports about us or our industry by any securities analysts who may decide to follow our stock or our industry; • speculation in the press or investment community; • terrorist acts; and • general market conditions, including economic factors unrelated to our performance. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from executing our growth strategy. The timing and amount of our working capital and capital expenditure requirements may vary significantly depending on many factors, including: • market acceptance of our products; • the need to make large capital expenditures to support and expand production capacity; • the existence of opportunities for expansion; and • access to and availability of sufficient management, technical, marketing and financial personnel. If our capital resources are not sufficient to satisfy our liquidity needs, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain other debt financing. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional debt would result in increased expenses and could result in covenants that would restrict our operations. With the exception of the secured credit facility, we have not made arrangements to obtain additional financing. We may not be able to obtain additional financing, if required, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan and will issue one preferred stock purchase right with each share of our common stock that we issue. Each right will entitle the holder to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of our Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock. Under certain circumstances, if a person or group acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock, holders of the rights (other than the person or group triggering their exercise) will be able to purchase, in exchange for the $60.00 exercise price, shares of our common stock or of any company into which we are merged having a value of $120.00. The rights expire in March 2015 unless 14 Table of Contents extended by our board of directors. Because the rights may substantially dilute the stock ownership of a person or group attempting to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors, our rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us (or a significant percentage of our outstanding capital stock) without first negotiating with our board of directors regarding such acquisition. In addition, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock (of which 500,000 shares have been designated as Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock) and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock may be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Further, certain provisions of our charter documents, including provisions establishing a classified board of directors, eliminating the ability of stockholders to take action by written consent and limiting the ability of stockholders to raise matters at a meeting of stockholders without giving advance notice, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or our management, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. Further, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which will prohibit an “interested stockholder” from engaging in a “business combination” with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, even if such combination is favored by a majority of stockholders, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. All of the foregoing could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or management. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 