Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and financial condition can be impacted by a number of factors, including the risks described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of these risks could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent or anticipated results and could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are highly dependent on the automotive industry. A prolonged or material contraction in automotive sales and production volumes could materially adversely affect our liquidity, the viability of our supply base and the financial conditions of our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Automotive sales and production are highly cyclical and depend, among other things, on general economic conditions and consumer spending, vehicle demand and preferences (which can be affected by a number of factors, including fuel costs, employment levels and the availability of consumer financing). As the volume of automotive production fluctuates, the demand for our products also fluctuates. Prolonged or material contraction in automotive sales and production volume, especially in Europe and North America, which accounted for approximately 35% and 52%, respectively of our 2013 sales, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. Our supply base has also been adversely affected by the industry environment. Volatile global automotive production, turmoil in the credit markets and extreme volatility over the past several years in raw material, energy and commodity costs have resulted in financial distress within our supply base and an increase in the risk of supply disruption. In addition, several automotive suppliers filed for bankruptcy protection or have ceased operations. If a significant supplier’s viability was to become impaired, it could impact the supplier’s ability to perform as we expect and consequently our ability to meet our own commitments. While we have developed and implemented strategies to mitigate the negative effects of these factors, these strategies may offset only a portion of the adverse impact. The continuation or worsening of these industry conditions could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows, thereby making it more difficult for us to make payments under our indebtedness. In addition, if our suppliers were to reduce normal trade credit terms, our liquidity could be adversely impacted. Likewise, our liquidity could be adversely impacted if our customers were to extend their normal payment terms, whether or not permitted under our contracts. If either of these situations occurs, we may need to rely on other sources of funding to bridge the additional gap between the time we pay our suppliers and the time we receive corresponding payments from our customers. Global economic uncertainty, particularly in Europe, sovereign debt issues and over capacity at certain OEMs may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Lower global production levels, particularly in Europe, overcapacity issues, economic and financial turmoil related to sovereign debt issues in certain countries, especially in Europe and tightened liquidity have combined to cause severe financial distress among many of our customers and have forced those companies to implement various forms of restructuring actions. In some cases, these actions have involved significant capacity reductions, the discontinuation of entire vehicle brands or even closure of manufacturing facilities. As a result, the Company has experienced and may continue to experience a decrease of production levels in the affected regions. Continued overcapacity and instability could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Our business could be materially adversely affected if we lost any of our largest customers or significant platforms. While we provide parts to virtually every major global OEM for use on a multitude of different platforms, sales to our three largest customers, Ford, GM and FCA, on a worldwide basis represented approximately 49% of our sales. Although business with each customer is typically split among numerous contracts, loss of a major customer, significant reduction in purchases of our products by such customer, or any discontinuance or resourcing of a significant platform (whether as a result of a decline in such customer’s market share due to increased competition from successful vertical integration by other OEMs or otherwise) could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our capital structure includes a substantial amount of indebtedness, which impose demands on our liquidity that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or on our ability to obtain financing in the future. We have a substantial amount of debt outstanding, including our 8 1/2% Senior Notes due 2018 (“Senior Notes”), 7 3/8% Senior PIK Toggle Notes (“Senior PIK Toggle Notes”) and the debt of certain foreign subsidiaries, aggregating approximately $684.4 million that requires significant principal and interest payments. We are permitted by the terms of the Senior Notes, Senior PIK Toggle Notes and our $150 million senior asset-based revolving credit facility (“Senior ABL Facility”) to incur substantial additional indebtedness, subject to the restrictions therein, which could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under the Senior Notes, Senior PIK Toggle Notes and the Senior ABL facility; • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and general industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, since a portion of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to principal and interest payments on our debt, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow from operations to service additional debt or to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; and • increase our cost of borrowing. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt or to refinance these obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, sell material assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The indentures governing the Senior Notes and the Senior PIK Toggle Notes and the credit agreement governing our Senior ABL Facility impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. The indentures governing the Senior Notes and the Senior PIK Toggle Notes and the credit agreement governing our Senior ABL Facility impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability, among other things, to: • incur additional indebtedness or issue certain disqualified stock and preferred stock; • pay dividends or certain other distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock; • make certain investments or other restricted payments; • place restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us; • engage in transactions with affiliates; 15 Table of Contents • sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies; • guarantee indebtedness; and • create liens. There are limitations on our ability to incur the full $150 million of commitments under our Senior ABL Facility. Borrowings under our Senior ABL Facility are limited by a specified borrowing base consisting of a percentage of eligible accounts receivable and eligible inventory, less customary reserves imposed by the agent under our Senior ABL Facility. In addition, under our Senior ABL Facility, a monthly fixed charge maintenance covenant would become applicable if excess availability under our Senior ABL Facility is at any time less than a specified percentage (or amount) of the total revolving loan commitments. If the covenant trigger were to occur, Cooper-Standard Holdings Inc. would be required to satisfy and maintain, on a consolidated basis, on the last day of each month a fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.0 to 1.0. Our ability to meet the required fixed charge coverage ratio can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure that we will meet this ratio. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our Senior ABL Facility. Moreover, our Senior ABL Facility provides the lenders considerable discretion to impose reserves, which could materially reduce the amount of borrowings that would otherwise be available to us. There can be no assurance that the lenders under our Senior ABL Facility will not impose such reserves during the term of our Senior ABL Facility and further, were they to do so, the resulting impact of this action could materially and adversely impair our ability to make interest payments on the Senior Notes and the Senior PIK Toggle Notes. Also, when (and for as long as) the availability under our Senior ABL Facility is less than a specified amount for a certain period of time, the agent under our Senior ABL Facility would exercise cash dominion. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we are limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. We cannot assure that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders or holders of the Senior Notes and the Senior PIK Toggle Notes and/or amend the covenants. Our pension plans are currently underfunded and we may have to make cash payments to the plans, reducing the cash available for our business. We sponsor various pension plans worldwide that are underfunded and will require cash payments. Additionally, if the performance of the assets in our pension plans does not meet our expectations, or if other actuarial assumptions are modified, our required contributions may be higher than we expect. If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to fund our worldwide pension liabilities, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness or sell assets. As of December 31, 2013, our $293.5 million projected benefit obligation (“PBO”), for U.S. pension benefit obligations exceeded the fair value of the relevant plans’ assets, which totaled $269.6 million, by $23.9 million. Additionally, the international employees’ plans’ PBO exceeded plan assets by approximately $125.6 million as of December 31, 2013. The PBO for other postretirement benefits (“OPEB”), was $52.7 million as of December 31, 2013. Our estimated funding requirement for pensions and OPEB during 2014 is approximately $17.6 million. Net periodic benefit costs for U.S. and international plans, including pension benefits and OPEB, were $8.4 million and $9.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2013, respectively. See Note 8. “Pensions,” and Note 9. “Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions,” to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. We could be adversely affected by any shortage of supplies. In the event of a rapid increase in production demands, either we or our customers or other suppliers may experience supply shortages of raw materials or components. This could be caused by a number of factors, including a lack of production line capacity or manpower or working capital constraints. In order to manage and 16 Table of Contents reduce the cost of purchased goods and services, we and others within our industry have been rationalizing and consolidating our supply base. In addition, due to the turbulence in the automotive industry, several suppliers have restructured or ceased operations. As a result, there is greater dependence on fewer sources of supply for certain components and materials, which could increase the possibility of a supply shortage of any particular component. If any of our customers experience a material supply shortage, either directly or as a result of a supply shortage at another supplier, that customer may halt or limit the purchase of our products. Similarly, if we or one of our own suppliers experience a supply shortage, we may become unable to produce the affected products if we cannot procure the components from another source. Such production interruptions could impede a ramp-up in vehicle production and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Escalating pricing pressures and decline of volume requirements from our customers may adversely affect our business. Pricing pressure in the automotive supply industry has been substantial and is likely to continue. Virtually all vehicle manufacturers seek price reductions in both the initial bidding process and during the term of the contract. Price reductions have adversely impacted our sales and profit margins and are expected to do so in the future. If we are not able to offset continued price reductions through improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, those price reductions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our agreements with our customers are generally requirements contracts and a decline in volume for our customers could adversely impact our revenues and profitability. We may be at risk of not being able to meet significant increases in demand. If demand continues to increase significantly from what has been a historical low for production in recent years, we may have difficulty meeting such demand, particularly if such increase in demand occurs rapidly. This difficulty may include not having sufficient manpower or relying on suppliers who may not be able to respond quickly to a changed environment when demand significantly increases. Our inability to meet significant increases in demand could require us to delay delivery dates and could result in customers cancelling their orders, requesting discounts or ceasing to do business with us. In addition, as demand and volumes increase, we will need to purchase more inventory, which will increase our working capital needs. If our working capital needs exceed our cash flows from operations, we will be required to use our cash balances and available borrowings, as well as potential sources of additional capital, which may not be available on satisfactory terms and in adequate amounts, if at all, to satisfy those needs. Increasing costs for, or reduced availability of, manufactured components and raw materials may adversely affect our profitability. The principal raw materials we purchase include synthetic rubber, components manufactured from carbon steel, plastic resins and components, carbon black, process oils, components manufactured from aluminum and natural rubber. Raw materials comprise the largest component of our costs, representing approximately 49% of our total cost of products in 2013. A significant increase in the price of these items could materially increase our operating costs and materially and adversely affect our profit margins because it is generally difficult to pass through these increased costs to our customers. Raw material costs remain volatile and could have an adverse impact on our profitability in the foreseeable future. We consider the production capacities and financial condition of suppliers in our selection process and expect that they will meet our delivery requirements. However, there can be no assurance that strong demand, capacity limitations, shortages of raw materials or other problems will not result in any shortages or delays in the supply of components to us. Some of our raw materials and other supplies used in our operations are not normally available from a variety of suppliers, therefore leaving our business vulnerable to increasing costs. In addition, our need to maintain a continuing supply of raw materials and components has made it difficult, in some cases, to resist price increases and surcharges imposed by our suppliers. 17 Table of Contents We could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to continue to compete successfully in the highly competitive automotive parts industry. The automotive parts industry is highly competitive. We face numerous competitors in each of the product lines we serve. In general, there are three or more significant competitors and numerous smaller competitors for most of the products we offer. We also face increased competition for certain of our products from suppliers producing in lower-cost regions such as Asia and Eastern Europe. We may not be able to continue to compete favorably with such competitors, and increased competition in our markets may have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to other risks associated with our non-U.S. operations. We have significant manufacturing operations outside the United States, including joint ventures and other alliances. Our operations are located in 19 countries, and we export to several other countries. In 2013, approximately 73% of our sales were attributable to products manufactured outside the United States. Risks are inherent in international operations, including: • exchange controls and currency restrictions; • currency fluctuations and devaluations; • changes in local economic conditions; • repatriation restrictions (including the imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries); • global sovereign uncertainty and hyperinflation in certain foreign countries, including the sovereign debt crisis in certain European countries; • changes in laws and regulations, including export and import restrictions and the imposition of embargos; • exposure to possible expropriation or other government actions; and • exposure to local political or social unrest including resultant acts of war, terrorism, drug related violence or similar events. These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations and on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, we are faced with potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations and we have to design local solutions to manage credit risks of local customers and distributors. In certain areas, such as Mexico, drug related violence and social unrest may directly affect our employees and may cause them to relocate out of the region or may otherwise present risks to our business operations in the region. Also, the cost and complexity of streamlining operations in certain European countries is greater than would be the case in the United States, due primarily to labor laws in those countries that can make reducing employment levels more time-consuming and expensive than in the United States. Our flexibility in our foreign operations can also be somewhat limited by agreements we have entered into with our foreign joint venture partners. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could materially impact our results from operations. Our sales outside the United States expose us to currency risks. Our sales and earnings denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars for our consolidated financial statements. This translation is calculated based on average exchange rates during the reporting period. Our reported international sales and earnings could be adversely impacted in periods of a strengthening U.S. dollar. We generally produce in the same geographic region as our products are sold. Some of our commodities are purchased in or pegged to the U.S. dollar therefore; our earnings could be adversely impacted during the periods of a strengthening U.S. dollar to other foreign currencies. We employ financial instruments to hedge certain portions of our foreign currency exposures however this will not completely insulate us from the effects of currency fluctuation. A portion of our operations are conducted by joint ventures that cannot be operated for our sole benefit. Many of our operations are carried on by joint ventures. In joint ventures we share the management of the company with one or more owners who may not have the same goals, resources or priorities as we do. Joint 18 Table of Contents ventures require attention to be paid to the relationships with our co-owners which influences each owner’s decisions. Joint ventures are intended to operate for the benefit of all owners and therefore we do not receive all the benefits from our joint ventures. Our continuous improvement program and other cost savings plans may not be effective. Our operations strategy includes cutting costs by reducing production errors, inventory levels, operator motion, overproduction and operator waiting while fostering the increased flow of material, information and communication. The cost savings that we anticipate from these initiatives may not be achieved on schedule or at the level anticipated by management. If we are unable to realize these anticipated savings, our operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Moreover, the implementation of cost saving plans and facilities integration may disrupt our operations and performance. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability and warranty and recall claims that may be brought against us. We may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. Accordingly, we could experience material warranty or product liability expenses in the future and incur significant costs to defend against these claims. In addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of that product if the defect or the alleged defect relates to automotive safety. Product recalls could cause us to incur material costs and could harm our reputation or cause us to lose customers, particularly if any such recall causes customers to question the safety or reliability of our products. As suppliers become more integrally involved in the vehicle design process and assume more of the vehicle assembly functions, customers are increasingly seeking to change contract terms and conditions concerning warranty and recall participation. Also, while we possess considerable historical warranty and recall data with respect to the products we currently produce, we do not have such data relating to new products, assembly programs or technologies, including any new fuel and emissions technology and systems being brought into production to allow us to accurately estimate future warranty or recall costs. In addition, the increased focus on systems integration platforms utilizing fuel and emissions technology with more sophisticated components from multiple sources could result in an increased risk of component warranty costs over which we have little or no control and for which we may be subject to an increasing share of liability to the extent any of the other component suppliers are in financial distress or are otherwise incapable of fulfilling their warranty or product recall obligations. Our costs associated with providing product warranties and responding to product recall claims could be material and we do not have insurance covering product recalls. Product liability, warranty and recall costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Work stoppages or similar difficulties could disrupt our operations. We may be subject to work stoppages and may be affected by other labor disputes. A number of our collective bargaining agreements expire in any given year, including several in 2014. There is no certainty that we will be successful in negotiating new agreements with these unions that extend beyond the current expiration dates, or that these new agreements will be on terms as favorable to us as past labor agreements. Failure to renew these agreements when they expire or to establish new collective bargaining agreements on terms acceptable to us and the unions could result in work stoppages or other labor disruptions which may have a material adverse effect on customer relationships and our business and results of operations. Additionally, a work stoppage at one or more of our suppliers, our customers or our customers’ suppliers could materially adversely affect our operations if an alternative source of supply were not readily available. Work stoppages by employees of our customers also could result in reduced demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 32% of our employees were represented by unions, approximately 7% of the unionized employees were located in the United States. It is possible that our workforce will become more unionized in the future. A work stoppage at one or more of our plants may have a material adverse effect on our business. Unionization activities could also increase our costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. 19 Table of Contents Certain natural disasters may adversely affect our business. Natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis and coastal flooding or other adverse climate conditions, whether occurring in the U.S. or abroad, and the consequences and effects thereof, including energy shortages and public health issues, may adversely affect our business. Such natural disasters could cause damage or disruption to our business operations or the operations of our customers, suppliers or joint venture affiliates or result in economic instability. Our success depends in part on our development of improved products, and our efforts may fail to meet the needs of customers on a timely or cost-effective basis. Our continued success depends on our ability to maintain advanced technological capabilities, machinery and knowledge necessary to adapt to changing market demands as well as to develop and commercialize innovative products. We may be unable to develop new products as successfully as in the past or to keep pace with technological developments by our competitors and the industry generally. In addition, we may develop specific technologies and capabilities in anticipation of customers’ demands for new innovations and technologies. If such demand does not materialize, we may be unable to recover the costs incurred in such programs. If we are unable to recover these costs or if any such programs do not progress as expected, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If our acquisition strategy is not successful, we may not achieve our growth and profit objectives. We may selectively pursue complementary acquisitions in the future as part of our growth strategy. While we will evaluate business opportunities on a regular basis, we may not be successful in identifying any attractive acquisitions. We may not have, or be able to raise on acceptable terms, sufficient financial resources to make acquisitions. Our ability to make investments may also be limited by the terms of our existing or future financing arrangements. In addition, any acquisitions we make will be subject to all of the risks inherent in an acquisition strategy, including integrating financial and operational reporting systems, establishing satisfactory budgetary and other financial controls, funding increased capital needs and overhead expenses, obtaining management personnel required for expanded operations and funding cash flow shortages that may occur if anticipated sales are not realized or are delayed, whether by general economic or market conditions or unforeseen internal difficulties. Our intellectual property portfolio is subject to legal challenges and considerable uncertainty. We have developed and actively pursue the development of proprietary technology in the automotive industry and rely on intellectual property laws and a number of patents in many jurisdictions to protect such technology. There can be no assurances that the protections we have available for our proprietary technology in the United States and other countries will be available to us in many places we sell our products. Therefore, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without authorization. Any infringement or misappropriation of our technology that we cannot control could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we had to litigate to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be costly, and we may not prevail. We also face increasing exposure to the claims of others for infringement of intellectual property rights. We may have material intellectual property claims asserted against us in the future and could incur significant costs or losses related to such claims. These claims, regardless of their merit or resolution, are frequently costly to prosecute, defend or settle and divert the efforts and attention of our management and employees. Claims of this sort also could harm our reputation and our relationships with our customers and might deter future customers from doing business with us. If any such claim were to result in an adverse outcome, we could be required to take actions which may include: cease the manufacture, use or sale of the infringing products; pay substantial damages to third parties, including to customers to compensate them for the discontinued use of a product or to replace infringing technology with non-infringing technology; or expend significant resources to develop or license non-infringing products. We are subject to a broad range of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to a broad range of federal, state and local environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations in the United States and other countries, including those governing: emissions to air; 20 Table of Contents discharges to water; noise and odor emissions; the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment, reclamation and disposal of chemicals and waste materials; the cleanup of contaminated properties; and human health and safety. We may incur substantial costs associated with hazardous substance contamination or exposure, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party property or natural resource damage, personal injury claims or costs to upgrade or replace existing equipment as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws or the failure to maintain or comply with environmental permits required at our locations. In addition, many of our current and former facilities are located on properties with long histories of industrial or commercial operations and some of these properties have been subject to certain environmental investigations and remediation activities. We maintain environmental reserves for certain of these sites. As of December 31, 2013, we have $7.7 million reserved in accrued liabilities and other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet on an undiscounted basis which we believe are adequate. Because some environmental laws (such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and analogous state laws) can impose joint and several liability retroactively and regardless of fault on potentially responsible parties for the entire cost of cleanup at currently or formerly owned or operated facilities, as well as sites at which such parties disposed or arranged for disposal of hazardous waste, we could become liable for investigating or remediating contamination at our current or former properties or other properties (including offsite waste disposal locations). We may not always be in complete compliance with all applicable requirements of environmental law or regulation, and we may receive notices of violation or become subject to enforcement actions or incur material costs or liabilities in connection with such requirements. In addition, new environmental requirements or changes to interpretations of existing requirements, or in their enforcement, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have made and will continue to make expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. While our costs to defend and settle known claims arising under environmental laws have not been material in the past and are not currently estimated to be material, such costs may be material in the future. Our expected annual effective tax rate could be volatile and could materially change as a result of changes in many items including mix of earnings, debt and capital structure and other factors. Many items could impact our effective tax rate including changes in our debt and capital structure, mix of earnings and many other factors. Our overall effective tax rate is based upon the consolidated tax expense as a percentage of consolidated earnings before tax. However, tax expenses and benefits are not recognized on a consolidated or global basis, but rather on a jurisdictional, legal entity basis. Further, certain jurisdictions in which we operate generate losses where no current financial statement benefit is realized. In addition, certain jurisdictions have statutory rates greater than or less than the United States statutory rate. As such, changes in the mix and source of earnings between jurisdictions could have a significant impact on our overall effective tax rate in future years. Changes in rules related to accounting for income taxes, changes in tax laws and rates or adverse outcomes from tax audits that occur regularly in any of our jurisdictions could also have a significant impact on our overall effective tax rate in future periods. Significant changes in discount rates, the actual return on pension assets and other factors could adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Our earnings may be positively or negatively impacted by the amount of income or expense recorded related to our qualified pension plans. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”) require that income or expense related to the pension plans be calculated at the annual measurement date using actuarial calculations, which reflect certain assumptions. The most significant of these assumptions relate to interest rates, the capital markets and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators can change these assumptions. These assumptions, as well as the actual value of pension assets at the measurement date, will impact the calculation of pension expense for the year. Although U.S. GAAP expense and pension contributions are not directly related, the key economic indicators that affect U.S. GAAP expense also affect the amount of cash that we will contribute to our pension plans. Because the values of these pension assets have fluctuated and will continue to fluctuate in response to changing market conditions, the amount of gains or losses that will be recognized in subsequent periods, the impact on the funded status of the pension plans 21 Table of Contents and the future minimum required contributions, if any, could adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Impairment charges relating to our goodwill and long-lived assets could adversely affect our results of operations. We regularly monitor our goodwill and long-lived assets for impairment indicators. In conducting our goodwill impairment testing, we compare the fair value of each of our reporting units to the related net book value. In conducting our impairment analysis of long-lived assets, we compare the undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated from the long-lived assets to the related net book values. Changes in economic or operating conditions impacting our estimates and assumptions could result in the impairment of our goodwill or long-lived assets. In the event that we determine that our goodwill or long-lived assets are impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The ownership of our stock is concentrated, with a few owners who may, individually or collectively, exert significant control over us. Certain stockholders own a substantial portion of our outstanding common stock. As long as such major stockholders (whether or not acting in a coordinated manner) and any other substantial stockholder own, directly or indirectly, a substantial portion of our outstanding shares, they will be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the composition of our Board of Directors. Further, to the extent that the substantial stockholders were to act in concert, they could potentially control any action taken by our stockholders. The concentration of ownership of our outstanding equity in such major stockholders may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of such stockholders or more likely with the support of such stockholders. The interests of any of such stockholders, any other substantial stockholder or any of their respective affiliates could conflict with or differ from the interests of our other stockholders or the interests of holders of the Senior Notes and Senior PIK Toggle Notes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 