ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider these risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the other reports and documents filed by us with the SEC. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or not presently deemed material by us, may also impair our operations and performance. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risk factors described below are the principal risk factors associated with an investment in our securities as well as those factors generally associated with an investment company with investment objectives, investment policies, capital structure or trading markets similar to ours. Risks Related to Our Investments We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. There has been increased competitive pressure in the BDC and investment company marketplace for senior and senior subordinated secured debt, resulting in lower yields for increasingly riskier investments. A large number of entities compete with us and make the types of investments that we seek to make in small and medium-sized companies. We compete with public and private buyout funds, commercial and investment banks, commercial financing companies, and, to the extent that they provide an alternative form of financing, hedge funds. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which would allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC. The competitive pressures we face could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. We do not seek to compete based on the interest rates we offer, and we believe that some of our competitors may make loans with interest rates that will be comparable to or lower than the rates we offer. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms, and structure. However, if we match our competitors’ pricing, terms, and structure, we may experience decreased net interest income and increased risk of credit loss. Our investments in small and medium-sized portfolio companies are extremely risky and could cause you to lose all or a part of your investment. Investments in small and medium-sized portfolio companies are subject to a number of significant risks including the following: • Small and medium-sized businesses are likely to have greater exposure to economic downturns than larger businesses. Our portfolio companies may have fewer resources than larger businesses, and any economic downturns or recessions, are more likely to have a material adverse effect on them. If one of our portfolio companies is adversely impacted by a recession, its ability to repay our loan or engage in a liquidity event, such as a sale, recapitalization or initial public offering would be diminished. • Small and medium-sized businesses may have limited financial resources and may not be able to repay the loans we make to them. Our strategy includes providing financing to portfolio companies that typically do not have readily available access to financing. While we believe that this provides an attractive opportunity for us to generate profits, this may make it difficult for the portfolio companies to repay their loans to us upon maturity. A borrower’s ability to repay its loan may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including the failure to meet its business plan, a downturn in its industry or negative economic conditions. Deterioration in a borrower’s financial condition and prospects usually will be accompanied by deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of realizing on any guaranties we may have obtained from the borrower’s management. As of March 15, 2015, one portfolio company was on non-accrual status with an aggregate debt cost basis of approximately $11.7 million, or 3.1% of the cost basis of all debt investments in our portfolio. While we are working with the portfolio company to improve its profitability and cash flows, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prove successful. Although we will generally seek to be the senior secured lender to a borrower, in some of our loans we expect to be subordinated to a senior lender, and our interest in any collateral would, accordingly, likely be subordinate to another lender’s security interest. • Small and medium-sized businesses typically have narrower product lines and smaller market shares than large businesses. Because our target portfolio companies are smaller businesses, they will tend to be more vulnerable to 18 Table of Contents competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns. In addition, our portfolio companies may face intense competition, including competition from companies with greater financial resources, more extensive development, manufacturing, marketing and other capabilities and a larger number of qualified managerial and technical personnel. • There is generally little or no publicly available information about these businesses. Because we seek to invest in privately owned businesses, there is generally little or no publicly available operating and financial information about our potential portfolio companies. As a result, we rely on our officers, the Adviser and its employees, Gladstone Securities and consultants to perform due diligence investigations of these portfolio companies, their operations, and their prospects. We may not learn all of the material information we need to know regarding these businesses through our investigations. • Small and medium-sized businesses generally have less predictable operating results. We expect that our portfolio companies may have significant variations in their operating results, may from time to time be exposed to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, to finance expansion or to maintain their competitive position, may otherwise have a weak financial position or may be adversely affected by changes in the business cycle. Our portfolio companies may not meet net income, cash flow and other coverage tests typically imposed by their senior lenders. A borrower’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by senior lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, foreclosure on its senior credit facility, which could additionally trigger cross-defaults in other agreements. If this were to occur, it is possible that the borrower’s ability to repay our loan would be jeopardized. • Small and medium-sized businesses are more likely to be dependent on one or two persons. Typically, the success of a small or medium-sized business also depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons. The death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our borrower and, in turn, on us. • Small and medium-sized businesses may have limited operating histories. While we intend to target stable companies with proven track records, we may make loans to new companies that meet our other investment criteria. Portfolio companies with limited operating histories will be exposed to all of the operating risks that new businesses face and may be particularly susceptible to, among other risks, market downturns, competitive pressures and the departure of key executive officers. • Debt securities of small and medium-sized private companies typically are not rated by a credit rating agency. Typically a small or medium-sized private business cannot or will not expend the resources to have their debt securities rated by a credit rating agency. We expect that most, if not all, of the debt securities we acquire will be unrated. Investors should assume that these loans would be at rates below what is today considered “investment grade” quality. Investments rated below investment grade are often referred to as high yield securities or junk bonds and may be considered high risk as compared to investment-grade debt instruments. Because the loans we make and equity securities we receive when we make loans are not publicly traded, there is uncertainty regarding the value of our privately held securities that could adversely affect our determination of our net asset value (“NAV”). Our portfolio investments are, and we expect will continue to be, in the form of securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. Our Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving, in good faith, the fair value of our investments, based on the Policy. Our Board of Directors reviews valuation recommendations that are provided by the Valuation Team. In valuing our investment portfolio, several techniques are used, including, a total enterprise value approach, a yield analysis, market quotes, and independent third party assessments. Currently, Standard & Poor’s Securities Evaluation, Inc. provides estimates of fair value on generally all of our debt investments and we use another independent valuation firm to provide valuation inputs for our significant equity investments, including earnings multiple ranges, as well as other information. In addition to these techniques, inputs and information, other factors are considered when determining fair value of our investments, including but limited to: the nature and realizable value of the collateral, including external parties’ guaranties; any relevant offers or letters of intent to acquire the portfolio company; and the markets in which the portfolio company operates. All new and follow-on debt and equity investments made during the current three month reporting period ended March 31, 2015 were valued at original cost basis. For additional information on our valuation policies, procedures and processes, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policy — Investment Valuation.” Fair value measurements of our investments may involve subjective judgments and estimates and due to the inherent uncertainty of determining these fair values, the fair value of our investments may fluctuate from period to period. Additionally, changes in the market environment and other events that may occur over the life of the investment may cause the gains or losses ultimately realized 19 Table of Contents on these investments to be different than the valuations currently assigned. Further, such investments are generally subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or otherwise are less liquid than publicly traded securities. If we were required to liquidate a portfolio investment in a forced or liquidation sale, we could realize significantly less than the value at which it is recorded. Our NAV would be adversely affected if the fair value of our investments that are approved by our Board of Directors are higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such securities. The lack of liquidity of our privately held investments may adversely affect our business. We will generally make investments in private companies whose securities are not traded in any public market. Substantially all of the investments we presently hold and the investments we expect to acquire in the future are, and will be, subject to legal and other restrictions on resale and will otherwise be less liquid than publicly-traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to quickly obtain cash equal to the value at which we record our investments if the need arises. This could cause us to miss important investment opportunities. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may record substantial realized losses upon liquidation. We may also face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we, the Adviser, or our respective officers, employees or affiliates have material non-public information regarding such portfolio company. Due to the uncertainty inherent in valuing these securities, the Adviser’s determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that could be obtained if a ready market for these securities existed. Our NAV could be materially affected if the Adviser’s determinations regarding the fair value of our investments are materially different from the values that we ultimately realize upon our disposal of such securities. Our financial results could be negatively affected if a significant portfolio investment fails to perform as expected. Our total investment in companies may be significant individually or in the aggregate. As a result, if a significant investment in one or more companies fails to perform as expected, our financial results could be more negatively affected and the magnitude of the loss could be more significant than if we had made smaller investments in more companies. Our five largest investments represented 28.8% of the fair value of our total portfolio as of March 31, 2015, compared to 32.8% as of March 31, 2014. Any disposition of a significant investment in one or more companies may negatively impact our net investment income and limit our ability to pay distributions. We generally will not control our portfolio companies. We do not, and do not expect to, control most of our portfolio companies, even though we may have board representation or board observation rights, and our debt agreements may contain certain restrictive covenants. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree and the management of such company, as representatives of the holders of their common stock, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as debt investors. Due to the lack of liquidity for our investments in non-traded companies, we may not be able to dispose of our interests in our portfolio companies as readily as we would like or at an appropriate valuation. As a result, a portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings. We typically invest in transactions involving acquisitions, buyouts and recapitalizations of companies, which will subject us to the risks associated with change in control transactions. Our strategy, in part, includes making debt and equity investments in companies in connection with acquisitions, buyouts and recapitalizations, which subjects us to the risks associated with change in control transactions. Change in control transactions often present a number of uncertainties. Companies undergoing change in control transactions often face challenges retaining key employees and maintaining relationships with customers and suppliers. While we hope to avoid many of these difficulties by participating in transactions where the management team is retained and by conducting thorough due diligence in advance of our decision to invest, if our portfolio companies experience one or more of these problems, we may not realize the value that we expect in connection with our investments, which would likely harm our operating results and financial condition. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. We primarily invest in secured first and second lien debt securities issued by our portfolio companies. In some cases portfolio companies will be permitted to have other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt securities in which we invest. By their terms, such debt securities may provide that the holders thereof are entitled to receive payment of interest and principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the debt securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization, or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for 20 Table of Contents repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt securities in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization, or bankruptcy of a portfolio company. Prepayments of our investments by our portfolio companies could adversely impact our results of operations and reduce our return on equity. In addition to risks associated with delays in investing our capital, we are also subject to the risk that investments we make in our portfolio companies may be repaid prior to maturity. During the fiscal year 2015, we experienced prepayments of debt investments from Cambridge Sound Management, Inc. (“CSM”), Frontier Packaging, Inc. (“Frontier”), Funko, Old World, and Star Seed, Inc. (“Star Seed”). We will first use any proceeds from prepayments to repay any borrowings outstanding on our credit facility. In the event that funds remain after repayment of our outstanding borrowings, then we will generally reinvest these proceeds in government securities, pending their future investment in new debt and/or equity securities. These government securities will typically have substantially lower yields than the debt securities being prepaid and we could experience significant delays in reinvesting these amounts. As a result, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our portfolio companies elect to prepay amounts owed to us. Additionally, prepayments could negatively impact our return on equity, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Higher taxation of our portfolio companies may impact our quarterly and annual operating results. The recession’s adverse effect on federal, state and municipality revenues may induce these government entities to raise various taxes to make up for lost revenues. Additional taxation may have an adverse effect on our portfolio companies’ earnings and reduce their ability to repay our loans to them, thus affecting our quarterly and annual operating results. Our portfolio is concentrated in a limited number of companies and industries, which subjects us to an increased risk of significant loss if any one of these companies does not repay us or if the industries experience downturns. As of March 31, 2015, we had investments in 34 portfolio companies, of which there were five investments, Counsel Press, SOG, Funko, Acme, and Old World that comprised $134.3 million, or 28.8%, of our total investment portfolio, at fair value. A consequence of a limited number of investments is that the aggregate returns we realize may be substantially adversely affected by the unfavorable performance of a small number of such loans or a substantial write-down of any one investment. Beyond our regulatory and income tax diversification requirements, as well as our credit facility requirements, we do not have fixed guidelines for industry concentration and our investments could potentially be concentrated in relatively few industries. In addition, while we do not intend to invest 25% or more of our total assets in a particular industry or group of industries at the time of investment, it is possible that as the values of our portfolio companies change, one industry or a group of industries may comprise in excess of 25% of the value of our total assets. A downturn in a particular industry in which we have invested a significant portion of our total assets could have a materially adverse effect on us. As of March 31, 2015, our largest industry concentration was in Home and Office Furnishings, Housewares, and Durable Consumer Products, representing 15.1% of our total investments, at fair value. Our investments are typically long term and will require several years to realize liquidation events. Since we generally make five to seven year term loans and hold our loans and related warrants or other equity positions until the loans mature, you should not expect realization events, if any, to occur over the near term. In addition, we expect that any warrants or other equity positions that we receive when we make loans may require several years to appreciate in value and we cannot give any assurance that such appreciation will occur. The disposition of our investments may result in contingent liabilities. Currently, all of our investments involve private securities. In connection with the disposition of an investment in private securities, we may be required to make representations about the business and financial affairs of the underlying portfolio company typical of those made in connection with the sale of a business. We may also be required to indemnify the purchasers of such investment to the extent that any such representations turn out to be inaccurate or with respect to certain potential liabilities. These arrangements may result in contingent liabilities that ultimately yield funding obligations that must be satisfied through our return of certain distributions previously made to us. There may be circumstances where our debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or we could be subject to lender liability claims. Even though we have structured most of our investments as secured first and second lien loans, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might re-characterize our debt investments and subordinate all, or a portion, of our claims to that of other creditors. Holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investments typically would be entitled to receive payment in full 21 Table of Contents before we receive any distributions. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use to repay its obligation to us. We may also be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by us with respect to a borrower’s business or in instances in which we exercised control over the borrower. It is possible that we could become subject to a lender’s liability claim, including as a result of actions taken in rendering significant managerial assistance. Portfolio company-related litigation could result in costs, including defense costs or damages, and the diversion of management time and resources. In the course of investing in and often providing significant managerial assistance to certain of our portfolio companies, certain persons employed by the Adviser sometimes serve as directors on the boards of such companies. To the extent that litigation arises out of our investments in these companies, even if meritless, we or such employees may be named as defendants in such litigation, which could result in additional costs, including defense costs, and the diversion of management time and resources. We may be unable to accurately estimate our exposure to litigation risk if we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies. As a result, any reserves we establish to cover any settlements or judgments may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of legal actions and regulatory matters, we cannot provide assurance as to the outcome of any threatened or pending matter or, if resolved adversely, the costs associated with any such matter, particularly where the claimant seeks very large or indeterminate damages or where the matter presents novel legal theories, involves a large number of parties or is at a preliminary stage. The resolution of any such matters may be time consuming, expensive, and may distract management from the conduct of our business. The resolution of certain threatened or pending legal actions or regulatory matters, if unfavorable, whether in settlement or a judgment, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows for the quarter in which such actions or matters are resolved or a reserve is established. For example, a former portfolio company, Noble Logistics, Inc. (“Noble”) is a defendant in employment law wage and hour and independent contractor misclassification claims in a purported class action seeking monetary damages, Maximo v. Aspen Contracting California LLC d/b/a/ Noble Logistics, et al., or Maximo. Noble is a debtor in a bankruptcy case under Chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code, pending in federal bankruptcy court in Delaware. The claims against Noble asserted in the Maximo case have been stayed by the filing of Noble’s bankruptcy case. A lawsuit brought by plaintiffs Clarence and Sheila Walder against a customer of Noble is also pending in California based on similar facts relating to Noble and claims under California law. The Maximo and Walder plaintiffs have attempted to bring claims against the Company and other former investors in Noble based primarily on allegations that the Company and other investors controlled Noble and were responsible for the misclassification of Noble’s workforce. To date, claims against the Company have been struck by a court or voluntarily dismissed by the plaintiffs in connection with the automatic stay arising in connection with the Noble bankruptcy. While neither the Company nor any of its portfolio companies (other than Noble) are currently defendants in these cases, they may in the future be subject to claims by these plaintiffs or other persons alleging similar claims, or may expend funds on behalf of Noble to defend claims. While the Company believes it would have valid defenses to potential claims, based on the current claims and facts alleged, and intends to defend any claims vigorously, it may nevertheless expend significant amounts of money in defense costs and expenses. Further, if the Company enters into settlements or suffers an adverse outcome in any litigation, the Company could be required to pay significant amounts. In addition, if any of the Company’s portfolio companies become subject to direct or indirect claims or other obligations, such as defense costs or damages in litigation or settlement, the Company’s investment in such companies could diminish in value and the Company could suffer indirect losses. Further, these matters could cause the Company to expend significant management time and effort in connection with assessment and defense of any claims. No range of potential expenses, costs or damages in connection with these matters can be estimated at this time. We may not realize gains from our equity investments and other yield enhancements. When we make a loan, we may receive warrants to purchase stock issued by the borrower or other yield enhancements, such as success fees. Our goal is to ultimately dispose of these equity interests and realize gains upon our disposition of such interests. We expect that, over time, the gains we realize on these warrants and other yield enhancements will offset any losses we may experience on loan defaults. However, any warrants we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value and any other yield enhancements, such as success fees, may not be realized. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests or other yield enhancements and any gains we do recognize may not be sufficient to offset losses we experience on our loan portfolio. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, we recorded a net realized loss of $0.1 million related to reversal of escrows from previous investment exits. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, we recorded a net realized gain of $8.2 million primarily consisting of a $24.8 million gain on the sale of Venyu Solutions, Inc. (“Venyu”), partially offset by realized losses of $11.4 million and $1.8 million related to the equity sales of Auto Safety House, LLC (“ASH”) and Packerland Whey Products, Inc. (“Packerland”), respectively, and a realized loss of $3.4 million related to the restructuring of Noble. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, we 22 Table of Contents recorded a realized gain of $0.8 million relating to post-closing adjustments on our previous investment exit of A. Stucki Holding Corp. (“A. Stucki”). There can be no guarantees that such realized gains can be achieved in future periods and the impact of such sales on our results of operations in prior periods should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. For the years ended March 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, success fees totaled $1.4 million, $4.2 million and $0.8 million, respectively. Any cumulative unrealized depreciation we experience on our investment portfolio may be an indication of future realized losses, which could reduce our income available for distribution. As a BDC we are required to carry our investments at market value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at fair value as determined in good faith by or under the direction of our Board of Directors. We will record decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments as unrealized depreciation. Since our inception, we have, at times, incurred a cumulative net unrealized depreciation of our portfolio. Any unrealized depreciation in our investment portfolio could result in realized losses in the future and ultimately in reductions of our income available for distribution to stockholders in future periods. The recent volatility of oil and natural gas prices could impair certain of our portfolio companies’ operations and ability to satisfy obligations to their respective lenders and investors, including us, which could negatively impact our financial condition. Many of our portfolio companies’ businesses are heavily dependent upon the prices of, and demand for, oil and natural gas, which have recently declined significantly and such volatility could continue or increase in the future. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas demand or prices may adversely affect the business, financial condition, cash flow, liquidity or results of operations of these portfolio companies and might impair their ability to meet capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments. A prolonged or continued decline in oil prices could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our External Financing In addition to regulatory limitations on our ability to raise capital, our revolving line of credit contains various covenants which, if not complied with, could accelerate our repayment obligations under the facility, thereby materially and adversely affecting our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions. We will have a continuing need for capital to finance our investments. As of March 31, 2015, we had $118.8 million in borrowings outstanding under our fifth amended and restated credit agreement, which provides for maximum borrowings of $185.0 million (our “Credit Facility”), with a revolving period end date of June 26, 2017 (the “Revolving Period End Date”). Our Credit Facility permits us to fund additional loans and investments as long as we are within the conditions and covenants set forth in the credit agreement. Our Credit Facility contains covenants that require our wholly-owned subsidiary, Business Investment, to maintain its status as a separate legal entity, prohibit certain significant corporate transactions (such as mergers, consolidations, liquidations or dissolutions) and restrict material changes to our credit and collection policies without lenders’ consent. Our Credit Facility also generally seeks to restrict distributions on our common stock to the sum of certain amounts, including, but not limited to, our net investment income, plus net capital gains, plus amounts elected by the Company to be considered as having been paid during the prior fiscal year in accordance with Section 855(a) of the Code. We are also subject to certain limitations on the type of loan investments we can make, including restrictions on geographic concentrations, sector concentrations, loan size, payment frequency and status, average life and lien property. Our Credit Facility also requires us to comply with other financial and operational covenants, which obligate us to, among other things, maintain certain financial ratios, including asset and interest coverage and a minimum number of obligors required in the borrowing base of the credit agreement. Additionally, we are subject to a performance guaranty that requires us to maintain (i) a minimum net worth of $170 million plus 50% of all equity and subordinated debt raised minus any equity or subordinated debt redeemed or retired after June 26, 2014, which equates to $202.9 million as of March 31, 2015, (ii) “asset coverage” with respect to “senior securities representing indebtedness” of at least 200%, in accordance with Section 18, as modified by Section 61, of the 1940 Act and (iii) our status as a BDC under the 1940 Act and as a RIC under the Code. As of March 31, 2015 and as of the date of this filing, we were in compliance with the covenants under our Credit Facility; however, our continued compliance depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Given the continued uncertainty in the capital markets, the cumulative net unrealized depreciation in our portfolio may increase in future periods and threaten our ability to comply with the minimum net worth covenant and other covenants under our Credit Facility. Our failure to satisfy these covenants could result in foreclosure by our lenders, which would accelerate our repayment obligations under the facility and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Any inability to renew, extend or replace our Credit Facility on terms favorable to us, or at all, could adversely impact our liquidity and ability to fund new investments or maintain distributions to our stockholders. 23 Table of Contents If our Credit Facility is not renewed or extended by the Revolving Period End Date, all principal and interest will be due and payable on or before June 26, 2017. Subject to certain terms and conditions, our Credit Facility may be expanded to a total of $250 million through the addition of other lenders to the facility. However, if additional lenders are unwilling to join the facility on its terms, we will be unable to expand the facility and thus will continue to have limited availability to finance new investments under our Credit Facility. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to renew, extend or replace our Credit Facility upon its Revolving Period End Date on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Our ability to expand our Credit Facility, and to obtain replacement financing at or before the time of its Revolving Period End Date, will be constrained by then-current economic conditions affecting the credit markets. In the event that we are not able to expand our Credit Facility, or to renew, extend or refinance our Credit Facility by the Revolving Period End Date, this could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and ability to fund new investments, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and our ability to qualify as a RIC under the Code. If we are unable to secure replacement financing, we may be forced to sell certain assets on disadvantageous terms, which may result in realized losses, and such realized losses could materially exceed the amount of any unrealized depreciation on these assets as of our most recent balance sheet date, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Such circumstances would also increase the likelihood that we would be required to redeem some or all of our outstanding mandatorily redeemable preferred stock, which could potentially require us to sell more assets. In addition to selling assets, or as an alternative, we may issue common equity in order to repay amounts outstanding under our Credit Facility. Based on the recent trading prices of our common stock, such an equity offering may have a substantial dilutive impact on our existing stockholders’ interest in our earnings, assets and voting interest in us. If we are able to renew, extend or refinance our Credit Facility prior to maturity, renewal, extension or refinancing, it could potentially result in significantly higher interest rates and related charges and may impose significant restrictions on the use of borrowed funds to fund investments or maintain distributions to common and preferred stockholders. Because we expect to distribute substantially all of our net investment income, at least 90%, on an annual basis, our business plan is dependent upon external financing, which is constrained by the limitations of the 1940 Act. We completed recent equity offerings of our Series C and Series B Term Preferred Stock in May 2015 and November 2014, respectively; our Series A Term Preferred Stock in March 2012; and our common offerings in March 2015 and in October 2012, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to raise capital through issuing equity in the near future. Our business requires a substantial amount of cash to operate and grow. We may acquire such additional capital from the following sources: • Senior Securities. We may issue senior securities representing indebtedness (including borrowings under our Credit Facility) and senior securities that are stock, such as our Series A, B, and C Term Preferred Stock, up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act currently permits us, as a BDC, to issue senior securities representing indebtedness and senior securities which are stock (such as our mandatorily redeemable preferred stock) (collectively, our “Senior Securities”), in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in Section 18(h) of the 1940 Act, is at least 200% immediately after each issuance of such Senior Security. As a result of incurring indebtedness (in whatever form), we will be exposed to the risks associated with leverage. Although borrowing money for investments increases the potential for gain, it also increases the risk of a loss. A decrease in the value of our investments will have a greater impact on the value of our common stock to the extent that we have borrowed money to make investments. There is a possibility that the costs of borrowing could exceed the income we receive on the investments we make with such borrowed funds. In addition, our ability to pay distributions, issue Senior Securities or repurchase shares of our common stock would be restricted if the asset coverage on each of our Senior Securities is not at least 200%. If the aggregate value of our assets declines, we might be unable to satisfy that 200% requirement. To satisfy the 200% asset coverage requirement in the event that we are seeking to pay a distribution, we might either have to (i) liquidate a portion of our loan portfolio to repay a portion of our indebtedness or (ii) issue common stock. This may occur at a time when a sale of a portfolio asset may be disadvantageous, or when we have limited access to capital markets on agreeable terms. In addition, any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness or for offering expenses will not be available for distributions to stockholders. Furthermore, if we have to issue common stock below NAV per common share, any non-participating stockholders will be subject to dilution, as described below. Pursuant to Section 61(a)(2) of the 1940 Act, we are permitted, under specified conditions, to issue multiple classes of senior securities representing indebtedness. However, pursuant to Section 18(c) of the 1940 Act, we are permitted to issue only one class of Senior Securities that is stock. • Common and Convertible Preferred Stock. Because we are constrained in our ability to issue debt or Senior Securities for the reasons given above, we are dependent on the issuance of equity as a financing source. If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock, the percentage ownership of our common stockholders at the time of the issuance would decrease and our existing common stockholder may experience dilution. In addition, under the 1940 Act, we will generally not be able to issue additional shares of our common stock at a price below NAV per common share to purchasers, other than to our existing common stockholders through a rights offering, without first obtaining the approval of our stockholders and our independent directors. If we were to sell shares of our common stock below our then current NAV per common share, as we did in March 2015 and October 2012, such sales would result in an immediate dilution to the NAV per common share. 24 Table of Contents This dilution would occur as a result of the sale of common shares at a price below the then current NAV per share of our common stock and a proportionately greater decrease in a common stockholder’s interest in our earnings and assets and voting percentage than the increase in our assets resulting from such issuance. For example, if we issue and sell an additional 10% of our common stock at a 5% discount from NAV, a common stockholder who does not participate in that offering for its proportionate interest will suffer NAV dilution of up to 0.5% or $5 per $1,000 of NAV. This imposes constraints on our ability to raise capital when our common stock is trading below NAV per common share, as it generally has for the last several years. As noted above, the 1940 Act prohibits the issuance of multiple classes of senior securities that are stock. As a result, we would be prohibited from issuing convertible preferred stock to the extent that such a security was deemed to be a separate class of stock from our outstanding mandatorily redeemable preferred stock. We financed certain of our investments with borrowed money and capital from the issuance of Senior Securities, which will magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and may increase the risk of investing in us. The following table illustrates the effect of leverage on returns from an investment in our common stock assuming various annual returns on our portfolio, net of expenses. The calculations in the table below are hypothetical, and actual returns may be higher or lower than those appearing in the table below. Assumed Return on Our Portfolio(Net of Expenses) (10 )% (5 )% 0 % 5 % 10 % Corresponding return to common stockholder(1) (21.6 )% (12.8 )% (3.9 )% 4.9 % 13.8 % (1) The hypothetical return to common stockholders is calculated by multiplying our total assets as of March 31, 2015, by the assumed rates of return and subtracting all interest on our debt and dividends on our mandatorily redeemable preferred stock expected to be paid or declared during the twelve months following March 31, 2015; and then dividing the resulting difference by our total net assets attributable to Common Stock as of March 31, 2015. Based on $483.5 million in total assets, $118.8 million in debt outstanding at cost, $5.1 million in a secured borrowing, $40.0 million in aggregate liquidation preference of Series A Term Preferred Stock, $41.4 million in aggregate liquidation preference of Series B Term Preferred Stock and $273.4 million in net assets as of March 31, 2015. Based on an aggregate outstanding indebtedness of $123.9 million at cost as of March 31, 2015, the effective annual interest rate of 4.0% as of that date, and aggregate liquidation preference of our mandatorily redeemable preferred stock of $81.4 million, our investment portfolio at fair value would have had to produce an annual return of at least 2.3% to cover annual interest payments on the outstanding debt and dividends on our mandatorily redeemable preferred stock. A change in interest rates may adversely affect our profitability and our hedging strategy may expose us to additional risks. We anticipate using a combination of equity and long-term and short-term borrowings to finance our investment activities. As a result, a portion of our income will depend upon the spread between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we loan these funds. An increase or decrease in interest rates could reduce the spread between the rate at which we invest and the rate at which we borrow, and thus, adversely affect our profitability, if we have not appropriately hedged against such event. Alternatively, our interest rate hedging activities may limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio. Ultimately, we expect approximately 90.0% of the loans in our portfolio to be at variable rates determined on the basis of the LIBOR and approximately 10.0% to be at fixed rates. As of March 31, 2015, based on the total principal balance of debt investments outstanding, our portfolio consisted of 79.9% of loans at variable rates with floors and 20.1% at fixed rates. We currently hold one interest rate cap agreement for a notional amount of $45.0 million. While hedging activities may insulate us against adverse fluctuations in interest rates, they may also limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio. Adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates or any future hedging transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to receive payments pursuant to an interest rate cap agreement is linked to the ability of the counter-party to that agreement to make the required payments. To the extent that the counter-party to the agreement is unable to pay pursuant to the terms of the agreement, we may lose the hedging protection of the interest rate cap agreement. Also, the fair value of certain of our debt investments is based in part on the current market yields or interest rates of similar securities. A change in interest rates could have a significant impact on our determination of the fair value of these debt investments. In addition, a change in interest rates could also have an impact on the fair value of our interest rate cap agreements that could result in the recording of unrealized appreciation or depreciation in future periods. Therefore, adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For additional information on interest rate fluctuations, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information on interest rate cap agreements. 25 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Regulation and Structure We will be subject to corporate-level tax if we are unable to satisfy Code requirements for RIC qualification. To maintain our qualification as a RIC, we must meet income source, annual distribution and asset diversification requirements. The annual distribution requirement is satisfied if we distribute at least 90% of our investment company taxable income to our stockholders on an annual basis. Because we use leverage, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and could, under certain circumstances, be restricted from making distributions necessary to qualify as a RIC. Warrants we receive with respect to debt investments will create “original issue discount” (“OID”), which we must recognize as ordinary income over the term of the debt investment. Similarly, PIK interest which is accrued generally over the term of the debt investment but not paid in cash. Both OID and PIK interest will increase the amounts we are required to distribute to maintain RIC status. Because such OIDs and PIK interest will not produce distributable cash for us at the same time as we are required to make distributions, we will need to use cash from other sources to satisfy such distribution requirements. Additionally, we must meet asset diversification and income source requirements at the end of each calendar quarter. If we fail to meet these tests, we may need to quickly dispose of certain investments to prevent the loss of RIC status. Since most of our investments will be illiquid, such dispositions, if even possible, may not be made at prices advantageous to us and, in fact, may result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify as a RIC as of a calendar quarter or annually for any reason and become fully subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution, and the actual amount distributed. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us and our common stock. For additional information regarding asset coverage ratio and RIC requirements, see “Business—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—RIC Status.” From time to time, some of our debt investments may include success fees that would generate payments to us if the business is ultimately sold. Because the satisfaction of these success fees, and the ultimate payment of these fees, is uncertain and highly contingent, we generally only recognize them as income when the payment is received. Success fee amounts are characterized as ordinary income for tax purposes and, as a result, we are required to distribute such amounts to our stockholders in order to maintain RIC status. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in “qualifying assets,” we could fail to qualify as a BDC under the 1940 Act or be precluded from investing according to our current business strategy. As a BDC, we may not acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets, as defined in Section 55(a) of the 1940 Act. We believe that most of the investments that we may acquire in the future will constitute qualifying assets. However, we may be precluded from investing in what we believe to be attractive investments if such investments are not qualifying assets for purposes of the 1940 Act. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could violate the 1940 Act provisions applicable to BDCs. As a result of such violation, specific rules under the 1940 Act could prevent us, for example, from making follow-on investments in existing portfolio companies (which could result in the dilution of our position) or could require us to dispose of investments at inappropriate times in order to come into compliance with the 1940 Act. If we need to dispose of such investments quickly, it could be difficult to dispose of such investments on favorable terms. We may not be able to find a buyer for such investments and, even if we do find a buyer, we may have to sell the investments at a substantial loss. Any such outcomes would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we do not maintain our status as a BDC, we would be subject to regulation as a registered closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act. As a registered closed-end investment company, we would be subject to substantially more regulatory restrictions under the 1940 Act, which would significantly decrease our operating flexibility. For additional information regarding qualifying assets, see “Business—Regulation as a BDC — Qualifying Assets.” Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations, or changes in the interpretation thereof, and any failure by us to comply with laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business. We, and our portfolio companies, are subject to regulation by laws at the local, state and federal levels. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Accordingly, any change in these laws or regulations, or their interpretation, or any failure by us or our portfolio companies to comply with these laws or regulations may adversely affect our business. For additional information regarding the regulations to which we are subject, see “Business—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations— RIC Status” and “Business—Regulation as a BDC.” 26 Table of Contents Provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could restrict a change in control and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. We are subject to provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years unless the holder’s acquisition of our stock was either approved in advance by our Board of Directors or ratified by our Board of Directors and stockholders owning two-thirds of our outstanding stock not owned by the acquiring holder. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. We have also adopted other measures that may make it difficult for a third party to obtain control of us, including provisions of our certificate of incorporation classifying our Board of Directors in three classes serving staggered three-year terms, and provisions of our certificate of incorporation authorizing our Board of Directors to induce the issuance of additional shares of our stock. These provisions, as well as other provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, may delay, defer, or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Risks Related to Our External Management We are dependent upon our key management personnel and the key management personnel of the Adviser, particularly David Gladstone, Terry Lee Brubaker and David Dullum, and on the continued operations of the Adviser, for our future success. We have no employees. Our chief executive officer, chief operating officer, chief financial officer and treasurer, chief valuation officer, chief accounting officer, and the employees of the Adviser, do not spend all of their time managing our activities and our investment portfolio. We are particularly dependent upon David Gladstone, Terry Lee Brubaker and David Dullum for their experience, skills, and networks. Our executive officers and the employees of the Adviser allocate some, and in some cases a material portion, of their time to businesses and activities that are not related to our business. We have no separate facilities and are completely reliant on the Adviser, which has significant discretion as to the implementation and execution of our business strategies and risk management practices. We are subject to the risk of discontinuation of the Adviser’s operations or termination of the Advisory Agreement and the risk that, upon such event, no suitable replacement will be found. We believe that our success depends to a significant extent upon the Adviser and that discontinuation of its operations or the loss of its key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objectives. Our success depends on the Adviser’s ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in a competitive environment. The Adviser experiences competition in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, particularly investment professionals and senior executives, and we may be unable to maintain or grow our business if we cannot attract and retain such personnel. The Adviser’s ability to attract and retain personnel with the requisite credentials, experience and skills depends on several factors including, but not limited to, its ability to offer competitive wages, benefits and professional growth opportunities. The Adviser competes with investment funds (such as private equity funds and mezzanine funds) and traditional financial services companies for qualified personnel, many of which have greater resources than us. Searches for qualified personnel may divert management’s time from the operation of our business. Strain on the existing personnel resources of the Adviser, in the event that it is unable to attract experienced investment professionals and senior executives, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are dependent upon the contacts and relationships of the Adviser to provide us with potential investment opportunities. We depend upon the Adviser to maintain its relationships with private equity sponsors, placement agents, investment banks, management groups and other financial institutions, and we expect to rely to a significant extent upon these relationships to provide us with potential investment opportunities. If the Adviser or members of our investment team fail to maintain such relationships, or to develop new relationships with other sources of investment opportunities, we will not be able to grow our investment portfolio. In addition, individuals with whom the Adviser has relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities, and we can offer no assurance that these relationships will generate investment opportunities for us in the future. Failure of the Adviser to maintain such relationships or enter into new relationships that would generate additional investment opportunities, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Adviser can resign on 60 days’ notice, and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents The Adviser has the right to resign under the Advisory Agreement at any time upon not less than 60 days’ written notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. If the Adviser resigns, we may not be able to find a new investment adviser or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 60 days, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial condition, business and results of operations as well as our ability to pay distributions are likely to be adversely affected and the market price of our common stock may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and investment activities is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by the Adviser and its affiliates. Even if we are able to retain comparable management, whether internal or external, the integration of such management and their lack of familiarity with our investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our incentive fee may induce the Adviser to make certain investments, including speculative investments. The management compensation structure that has been implemented under the Advisory Agreement may cause the Adviser to invest in high-risk investments or take other investment risks. In addition to its management fee, the Adviser is entitled under the Advisory Agreement to receive incentive compensation based in part upon our achievement of specified levels of income. In evaluating investments and other management strategies, the opportunity to earn incentive compensation based on net investment income may lead the Adviser to place undue emphasis on the maximization of net investment income at the expense of other criteria, such as preservation of capital, maintaining sufficient liquidity, or management of credit risk or market risk, in order to achieve higher incentive compensation. Investments with higher yield potential are generally riskier or more speculative. This could result in increased risk to the value of our investment portfolio. We may be obligated to pay the Adviser incentive compensation even if we incur a loss. The Advisory Agreement entitles the Adviser to incentive compensation for each fiscal quarter in an amount equal to a percentage of the excess of our net investment income for that quarter (before deducting incentive fee, net operating losses and certain other items) above a threshold return of 1.75% for that quarter. When calculating our incentive fee, our pre-incentive fee net investment income excludes realized and unrealized losses or depreciation that we may incur in the fiscal quarter, even if such losses or depreciation result in a net loss on our statement of operations for that quarter. Thus, we may be required to pay the Adviser incentive compensation for a fiscal quarter even if there is a decline in the value of our portfolio or we incur a net realized or unrealized loss for that quarter. For additional information on incentive compensation under the Advisory Agreement with the Adviser, see “Business — Investment Advisory and Management Agreement.” We may be required to pay the Adviser incentive compensation on income accrued, but not yet received in cash. That part of the incentive fee payable by us that relates to our net investment income is computed and paid on income that may include interest that has been accrued but not yet received in cash, such as debt instruments with PIK interest. If a portfolio company defaults on a loan, it is possible that such accrued interest previously used in the calculation of the incentive fee will become uncollectible. Consequently, we may make incentive fee payments on income accruals that we may not collect in the future and with respect to which we do not have a clawback right against the Adviser. During the years ended March 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, PIK income and any other non-cash income represents less than 1% of total income for the year. The Adviser’s failure to identify and invest in securities that meet our investment criteria or perform its responsibilities under the Advisory Agreement would likely adversely affect our ability for future growth. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives will depend on our ability to grow, which in turn will depend on the Adviser’s ability to identify and invest in securities that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis will be largely a function of the Adviser’s structuring of the investment process, its ability to provide competent and efficient services to us, and our access to financing on acceptable terms. The senior management team of the Adviser has substantial responsibilities under the Advisory Agreement. In order to grow, the Adviser will need to hire, train, supervise, and manage new employees successfully. Any failure to manage our future growth effectively would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and cash flows. There are significant potential conflicts of interest, including with the Adviser, which could impact our investment returns. Our executive officers and directors, and the officers and directors of the Adviser, serve or may serve as officers, directors, or principals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business as we do or of investment funds managed by our affiliates. Accordingly, they may have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. For example, Mr. Gladstone, our chairman and chief executive officer, is the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of the Adviser and Administrator, Gladstone Investment, Gladstone Commercial and Gladstone Land. In addition, 28 Table of Contents Mr. Brubaker, our vice chairman and chief operating officer, is the vice chairman and chief operating officer of the Adviser and Administrator, Gladstone Capital, Gladstone Commercial and Gladstone Land. Mr. Dullum, our president and a director, is an executive managing director of the Adviser. Moreover, the Adviser may establish or sponsor other investment vehicles which from time to time may have potentially overlapping investment objectives with ours and accordingly may invest in, whether principally or secondarily, asset classes we target. While the Adviser generally has broad authority to make investments on behalf of the investment vehicles that it advises, the Adviser has adopted investment allocation procedures to address these potential conflicts and intends to direct investment opportunities to the Gladstone affiliate with the investment strategy that most closely fits the investment opportunity. Nevertheless, the management of the Adviser may face conflicts in the allocation of investment opportunities to other entities managed by the Adviser. As a result, it is possible that we may not be given the opportunity to participate in certain investments made by other funds managed by the Adviser. Our Board of Directors approved a revision of our investment objectives and strategies that became effective on January 1, 2013, which may enhance the potential for conflicts in the allocation of investment opportunities to us and other entities managed by the Adviser. In certain circumstances, we may make investments in a portfolio company in which one of our affiliates has or will have an investment, subject to satisfaction of any regulatory restrictions and, where required, the prior approval of our Board of Directors. As of March 31, 2015, our Board of Directors has approved the following types of co-investment transactions not under the July 2012 co-invest exemption order we received from the SEC: • Our affiliate, Gladstone Commercial, may, under certain circumstances, lease property to portfolio companies that we do not control. We may pursue such transactions only if (i) the portfolio company is not controlled by us or any of our affiliates, (ii) the portfolio company satisfies the tenant underwriting criteria of Gladstone Commercial, and (iii) the transaction is approved by a majority of our independent directors and a majority of the independent directors of Gladstone Commercial. We expect that any such negotiations between Gladstone Commercial and our portfolio companies would result in lease terms consistent with the terms that the portfolio companies would be likely to receive were they not portfolio companies of ours. • We may invest simultaneously with our affiliate Gladstone Capital in senior loans in the broadly syndicated market whereby neither we nor any affiliate has the ability to dictate the terms of the loans. • Additionally, pursuant to an exemptive order granted by the SEC in July 2012, under certain circumstances, we may co-invest with Gladstone Capital and any future BDC or closed-end management investment company that is advised by the Adviser (or sub-advised by the Adviser if it controls the fund) or any combination of the foregoing subject to the conditions included therein. Certain of our officers, who are also officers of the Adviser, may from time to time serve as directors of certain of our portfolio companies. If an officer serves in such capacity with one of our portfolio companies, such officer will owe fiduciary duties to stockholders of the portfolio company, which duties may from time to time conflict with the interests of our stockholders. In the course of our investing activities, we will pay management and incentive fees to the Adviser and will reimburse the Administrator for certain expenses it incurs. As a result, investors in our common stock will invest on a “gross” basis and receive distributions on a “net” basis after expenses, resulting in, among other things, a lower rate of return than one might achieve through our investors themselves making direct investments. As a result of this arrangement, there may be times when the management team of the Adviser has interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict. In addition, as a BDC, we make available significant managerial assistance to our portfolio companies and provide other services to such portfolio companies. While neither we nor the Adviser currently receives fees in connection with managerial assistance, the Adviser and Gladstone Securities have, at various times, provided other services to certain of our portfolio companies and received fees for these other services. Our business model is dependent upon developing and sustaining strong referral relationships with investment bankers, business brokers and other intermediaries and any change in our referral relationships may impact our business plan. We are dependent upon informal relationships with investment bankers, business brokers and traditional lending institutions to provide us with deal flow. If we fail to maintain our relationship with such funds or institutions, or if we fail to establish strong referral relationships with other funds, we will not be able to grow our portfolio of investments and fully execute our business plan. 29 Table of Contents The Adviser is not obligated to provide credits of the base management fee or incentive fees, which could negatively impact our earnings and our ability to maintain our current level of distributions to our stockholders. The Advisory Agreement provides for a base management fee, based on our gross assets, and an incentive fee, that is based on our income and capital gains. Our Board of Directors has accepted in the past and may accept in the future voluntary, unconditional and irrevocable credits to reduce the annual 2.0% base management fee or the incentive fee, on a quarterly or annual basis. Any fees credited may not be recouped by the Adviser in the future. However, the Adviser is not required to issue these or other credits of fees under the Advisory Agreement. If the Adviser does not issue these credits in the future, it could negatively impact our earnings and may compromise our ability to maintain our current level of distributions to our stockholders, which could have a material adverse impact on our common stock price. Our base management fee may induce the Adviser to incur leverage. The fact that our base management fee is payable based upon our gross assets, which would include any investments made with proceeds of borrowings, may encourage the Adviser to use leverage to make additional investments. Under certain circumstances, the use of increased leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would disfavor holders of our securities. Given the subjective nature of the investment decisions made by the Adviser on our behalf, we will not be able to monitor this potential conflict of interest. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Securities We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results due to a number of factors, including, among others, variations in our investment income, the interest rates payable on the debt securities we acquire, the default rates on such securities, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, placing and removing investments on non-accrual status, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets, the ability to sell investments at attractive terms, the ability to fund and close suitable investments, the level of our expenses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets, and general economic conditions, including the impacts of inflation. The majority of our portfolio companies are in industries that are directly impacted by inflation, such as manufacturing and consumer goods and services. Our portfolio companies may not be able to pass on to customers increases in their costs of production which could greatly affect their operating results, impacting their ability to repay our loans. In addition, any projected future decreases in our portfolio companies’ operating results due to inflation could adversely impact the fair value of those investments. Any decreases in the fair value of our investments could result in future realized and unrealized losses and therefore reduce our net assets resulting from operations. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. There is a risk that you may not receive distributions or that distributions may not grow over time. Our current intention is to distribute at least 90% of our investment company taxable income to our common stockholders on a quarterly basis by paying monthly common distributions. We expect to retain some or all net realized long-term capital gains by first offsetting them with realized capital losses, and, secondly, through a “deemed distribution” to supplement our equity capital and support the growth of our portfolio, although our Board of Directors may determine in certain cases to distribute these gains to our common stockholders. In addition, our Credit Facility restricts the amount of distributions we are permitted to make annually. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results or maintain a tax status that will allow or require any specified level of cash distributions. Investing in our securities may involve an above average degree of risk. The investments we make in accordance with our investment objective may result in a higher amount of risk than alternative investment options and a higher risk of volatility or loss of principal. Our investments in portfolio companies may be highly speculative, and therefore, an investment in our common stock may not be suitable for someone with lower risk tolerance. Distributions to our common stockholders have included and may in the future include a return of capital. Our Board of Directors declares monthly common distributions each quarter based on the respective quarter’s estimates of investment company taxable income for each fiscal year, which may differ, and in the past have differed, from actual results. Because our common distributions are based on estimates of investment company taxable income that may differ from actual results, future common distributions payable to our common stockholders may also include a return of capital. Moreover, to the extent that we distribute amounts that exceed our accumulated earnings and profits, these distributions constitute a return of capital. A return of capital represents a return of a common stockholder’s original investment in common shares of our stock and should not be confused with a distribution from earnings and profits. Although return of capital distributions may not be taxable, such distributions may increase an investor’s tax liability for capital gains upon the sale of our common stock by reducing the investor’s tax basis for such common stock. Such returns of capital reduce our asset base and also adversely impact our ability to raise debt capital as a result of the leverage restrictions under the 1940 Act, which could have a material adverse impact on our ability to make new investments. 30 Table of Contents The market price of our shares may fluctuate significantly. The trading price of our common stock and our preferred stock may fluctuate substantially. Due to the volatility and disruptions that have affected the capital and credit markets over the past few years, our stock has experienced greater than usual price volatility. The market price and marketability of our shares may from time to time be significantly affected by numerous factors, including many over which we have no control and that may not be directly related to us. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • general economic trends and other external factors, such as inflation, oil and gas prices, GDP growth; • price and volume fluctuations in the stock market from time to time, which are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of shares of RICs, BDCs or other companies in our sector, which is not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; • changes in stock index definitions or policies, which may impact an investor’s desire to hold shares of BDCs; • changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs or BDCs; • loss of BDC status; • loss of RIC status; • changes in our earnings or variations in our operating results; • changes and perceived projected changes in prevailing interest rates; • changes in the value of our portfolio of investments; • any shortfall in our revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; • departure of key personnel; • operating performance of companies comparable to us; • short-selling pressure with respect to our shares or BDCs generally; • the announcement of proposed, or completed, offerings of our securities, including a rights offering; and • loss of a major funding source. Fluctuations in the trading prices of our shares may adversely affect the liquidity of the trading market for our shares and, if we seek to raise capital through future equity financings, our ability to raise such equity capital. Common shares of closed-end investment companies frequently trade at a discount from NAV. Shares of closed-end investment companies frequently trade at a discount from NAV per common share. Since our inception, our common stock has at times traded above NAV, and at times below NAV. During the past year, our common stock has often, and at times significantly, traded below NAV. Subsequent to March 31, 2015, our common stock has traded at discounts of up to 19.9% of our NAV per share, which was $9.18 as of March 31, 2015. This characteristic of shares of closed-end investment companies is separate and distinct from the risk that our NAV per share will decline. As with any stock, the price of our common shares will fluctuate with market conditions and other factors. If common shares are sold, the price received may be more or less than the original investment. Whether investors will realize gains or losses upon the sale of our shares will not depend directly upon our NAV, but will depend upon the market price of the shares at the time of sale. Since the market price of our common shares will be affected by such factors as the relative demand for and supply of the shares in the market, general market and economic conditions and other factors 31 Table of Contents beyond our control, we cannot predict whether the common shares will trade at, below or above our NAV. Under the 1940 Act, we are generally not able to issue additional shares of our common stock at a price below NAV per share to purchasers other than our existing common stockholders through a rights offering without first obtaining the approval of our stockholders and our independent directors. Additionally, at times when our common stock is trading below its NAV per share, our dividend yield may exceed the weighted average returns that we would expect to realize on new investments that would be made with the proceeds from the sale of such stock, making it unlikely that we would determine to issue additional common shares in such circumstances. Thus, for as long as our common stock may trade below NAV we will be subject to significant constraints on our ability to raise capital through the issuance of common stock. Additionally, an extended period of time in which we are unable to raise capital may restrict our ability to grow and adversely impact our ability to increase or maintain our distributions. Common stockholders may incur dilution if we sell shares of our common stock in one or more offerings at prices below the then current NAV per share. At our most recent annual meeting of stockholders on August 7, 2014, our stockholders approved a proposal designed to allow us to sell shares of our common stock below the then current NAV per share in one or more offerings for a period of one year from the date of such approval, subject to certain conditions (including, but not limited to, that the number of common shares issued and sold pursuant to such authority does not exceed 25% of our then outstanding common stock immediately prior to each such sale). We exercised this right with Board of Director approval in March 2015, when we completed a public offering of 3.3 million shares of our common stock at a public offering price of $7.40 per share, which was below our then current NAV of $8.55 per share. Gross proceeds totaled approximately $24.4 million and net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and offering expenses borne by us, were approximately $23.0 million. The net dilutive effect of the issuance of common stock, net of expenses, below NAV was $0.22 per share of common stock. We previously exercised this right with our Board of Director’s approval in October 2012, when we completed a public offering of 4.4 million shares of our common stock at a public offering price of $7.50 per share, which was below our then current NAV of $8.65 per share. Gross proceeds totaled approximately $33.0 million and net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and offering expenses borne by us, were approximately $31.0 million. The net dilutive effect of the issuance of common stock, net of expenses, below NAV was $0.31 per share of common stock. At the upcoming annual stockholders meeting scheduled for August 6, 2015, we expect that our stockholders will again be asked to vote in favor of renewing this proposal for another year. During the past year, our common stock has traded consistently, and at times significantly, below NAV. Any decision to sell shares of our common stock below the then current NAV per share of our common stock would be subject to the determination by our Board of Directors that such issuance is in our and our stockholders’ best interests. If we were to sell shares of our common stock below NAV per share, such sales would result in an immediate dilution to the NAV per share. This dilution would occur as a result of the sale of shares at a price below the then current NAV per share of our common stock and a proportionately greater decrease in a common stockholder’s interest in our earnings and assets and voting interest in us than the increase in our assets resulting from such issuance. The greater the difference between the sale price and the NAV per share at the time of the offering, the more significant the dilutive impact would be. Because the number of shares of common stock that could be so issued and the timing of any issuance is not currently known, the actual dilutive effect, if any, cannot be currently predicted. However, if, for example, we sold an additional 10% of our common stock at a 5% discount from NAV, an existing common stockholder who did not participate in that offering for its proportionate interest would suffer NAV dilution of up to 0.5% or $5 per $1,000 of NAV. If we fail to pay dividends on our mandatorily redeemable preferred stock for two years, the holders of our preferred stock will be entitled to elect a majority of our directors. The terms of our three series of mandatorily redeemable preferred stock provide for annual dividends of $1.78125, $1.68750, and $1.62500 per outstanding share of our Series A Term Preferred Stock, Series B Term Preferred Stock and Series C Term Preferred Stock, respectively. In accordance with the terms of each of our three series of mandatorily redeemable term preferred stock, if dividends thereon are unpaid in an amount equal to at least two years of dividends, the holders of such series of stock will be entitled to elect a majority of our Board of Directors. Other Risks Market volatility and the condition of the debt and equity capital markets could negatively impact our financial condition and stock price. 32 Table of Contents Beginning in the third quarter of 2007, global credit and other financial markets began to suffer substantial stress, volatility, illiquidity and disruption. These forces reached extraordinary levels in late 2008, resulting in the bankruptcy of, the acquisition of, or government intervention in the affairs of several major domestic and international financial institutions. In particular, the financial services sector was negatively impacted by significant write-offs as the value of the assets held by financial firms declined, impairing their capital positions and abilities to lend and invest. We believe that such value declines were exacerbated by widespread forced liquidations as leveraged holders of financial assets, faced with declining prices, were compelled to sell to meet margin requirements and maintain compliance with applicable capital standards. Such forced liquidations also impaired or eliminated many investors and investment vehicles, leading to a decline in the supply of capital for investment and depressed pricing levels for many assets. These events significantly diminished overall confidence in the debt and equity markets, engendered unprecedented declines in the values of certain assets, and caused extreme economic uncertainty. If market conditions similar to these were to recur, our assets could experience a similar decline in value, among other negative impacts we could suffer. Since March 2009, the global credit and other financial market conditions have improved as stability has increased throughout the international financial system and, specifically, in the U.S. economy in which we operate, and many public market indices have experienced positive total returns. However, the macroeconomic environment and recovery from the downturn has been challenging and inconsistent. Instability in the credit markets, the impact of periodic uncertainty regarding the U.S. federal budget, tapering of bond purchases by the U.S. Federal Reserve and debt ceiling, the instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world, sovereign debt conditions in Europe and other disruptions may continue to put pressure on economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad, all of which can have an adverse effect on our business. Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results. Many of our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic downturns or recessions and may be unable to repay our loans during these periods. Therefore, during these periods our non-performing assets may increase and the value of these assets may decrease. Adverse economic conditions may also decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in investment income, net investment income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and harm our operating results. We experienced to some extent such effects as a result of the economic downturn that occurred from 2008 through 2009 and may experience such effects again in any future downturn or recession. We could face losses and potential liability if intrusion, viruses or similar disruptions to our technology jeopardize our confidential information, whether through breach of our network security or otherwise. Maintaining our network security is of critical importance because our systems store highly confidential financial models and portfolio company information. Although we have implemented, and will continue to implement and upgrade, security measures, our technology platform is and will continue to be vulnerable to intrusion, computer viruses or similar disruptive problems caused by transmission from unauthorized users. The misappropriation of proprietary information could expose us to a risk of loss or litigation. Terrorist attacks, acts of war, or national disasters may affect any market for our stock, impact the businesses in which we invest, and harm our business, operating results, and financial conditions. Terrorist acts, acts of war, or national disasters have created, and continue to create, economic and political uncertainties and have contributed to global economic instability. Future terrorist activities, military or security operations, or national disasters could further weaken the domestic/global economies and create additional uncertainties, which may negatively impact the businesses in which we invest directly or indirectly and, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Losses from terrorist attacks and national disasters are generally uninsurable. 33 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 