ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a number of significant risks. We cannot assure you that we will achieve our investment objective. You should consider carefully the risks described below and all other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and the related notes. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an opinion on our consolidated financial statements that states that the consolidated financial statements were prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern and further states that the uncertainty regarding the renewal of our liquidity facility raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Specifically, we are currently negotiating the renewal of the liquidity facility, which matures in April 2009, supporting our second amended and restated securitization revolving credit facility with certain liquidity banks. In the event that the liquidity banks do not renew the liquidity facility, the terms of the second amended and restated securitization revolving credit facility require that all principal and interest collected from the debt investments secured by the facility must be used to pay down amounts outstanding under the facility by April 2011. Because substantially all of our debt investments are secured by our second amended and restated securitization revolving credit facility, we cannot provide any assurance that we would have sufficient cash and liquid assets to fund normal operations and dividend distributions to our stockholders during the period of time when we are required to repay amounts outstanding under the second amended and restated securitization revolving credit facility if such amounts became due. If the liquidity facility is not renewed, we believe that we may be able to negotiate an arrangement with the lenders of the second amended and restated securitization revolving credit facility for repayment terms that do not require us to use all principal and interest collected from the debt investments secured by the facility to pay down amounts outstanding thereunder, however, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to do so. As a result, if the Company was unable to (i) renew the liquidity facility supporting our second amended and restated securitization revolving credit facility or (ii) negotiate an arrangement with the lenders of the second amended and restated securitization revolving credit facility for repayment terms that do not require us to use all principal and interest collected from the debt investments secured by the facility to pay down amounts outstanding thereunder there would be a significant adverse impact on our financial position and operating results. We are currently in a period of capital markets disruption and recession and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. These conditions could adversely affect our financial position and operating results and impair our portfolio companies’ financial positions and operating results, which could, in turn, harm our financial position and operating results. The capital markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption since mid-2007 and the U.S. economy has entered into a recession. Disruptions in the capital markets have increased the spread 13 between the yields realized on risk-free and higher risk securities, resulting in illiquidity in parts of the capital markets. We believe these conditions may continue for a prolonged period of time or worsen in the future. A prolonged period of market illiquidity may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. In this regard, we can provide no assurance that the liquidity facility associated with our second amended and restated securitization revolving credit facility will be renewed when it matures in April 2009. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Borrowings” for a more detailed discussion of the liquidity facility. These events, including the non-renewal of the liquidity facility, could limit our investment originations, limit our ability to grow and pay dividends and negatively impact our operating results. In addition, many of our portfolio companies are susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions. An economic slowdown or recession, including the current one and any future slowdowns or recessions, may affect the ability of our portfolio companies to repay our loans or engage in a liquidity event such as a sale, recapitalization or initial public offering. Our nonperforming assets are likely to increase and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease during these periods. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of any collateral securing some of our loans. These conditions could lead to losses of value in our portfolio and a decrease in our revenues, net income and assets. Because we must distribute at least 90% of our taxable income to our stockholders in connection with our election to be treated as a RIC, we will continue to need additional capital to finance our growth. If additional funds are unavailable or not available on favorable terms, our ability to grow will be impaired. In order to qualify for the tax benefits available to RICs, we must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our annual taxable income. As a result, we will likely need to raise capital from other sources to grow our business. As a business development company, we generally are required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets, less liabilities and indebtedness not represented by senior securities to total senior securities, which includes all of our borrowings and any preferred stock we may issue in the future, of at least 200%. This requirement limits the amount that we may borrow. Because we will continue to need capital to grow our investment portfolio, this limitation may prevent us from incurring debt and require us to raise additional equity at a time when it may be disadvantageous to do so. We cannot assure you that debt and equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all. If additional funds are not available to us, we could be forced to curtail or cease new investment activities, and our net asset value could decline. Regulations governing our operation as a business development company will affect our ability to, and the way in which we, raise additional capital. Our business will require capital. We may acquire additional capital from the following sources: Senior Securities and Other Indebtedness. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as senior securities, up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. If we issue senior securities, including debt or preferred stock, we will be exposed to additional risks, including the following: • Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted, as a business development company, to issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we will not be permitted to issue additional debt securities or preferred stock and/or make additional borrowings from banks or other financial institutions until we are able to satisfy this test. • Any amounts that we use to service our debt or make payments on preferred stock will not be available for dividends to our common stockholders. 14 • It is likely that any senior securities or other indebtedness we issue will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Additionally, some of these securities or other indebtedness may be rated by rating agencies, and in obtaining a rating for such securities and other indebtedness, we may be required to abide by operating and investment guidelines that further restrict operating and financial flexibility. • We and, indirectly, our stockholders will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities and other indebtedness. • Preferred stock or any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock, including separate voting rights and could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control to the detriment of the holders of our common stock. Additional Common Stock. We are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the current net asset value of the common stock if our board of directors determines that such sale is in our best interests and that of our stockholders, and our stockholders approve such sale. In this regard, on June 24, 2008, our stockholders approved proposals that (1) authorize us to sell shares of our common stock below the then current net asset value per share of our common stock in one or more offerings for a period of one year ending on the earlier of June 23, 2009 or the date of our 2009 annual meeting of stockholders and (2) authorize us to issue securities to subscribe to, convert to, or purchase shares of our common stock in one or more offerings. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price which, in the determination of our board of directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). We may also make rights offerings to our stockholders at prices per share less than the net asset value per share, subject to applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time would decrease and they may experience dilution. Moreover, we can offer no assurance that we will be able to issue and sell additional equity securities in the future, on favorable terms or at all. Securitization of Loans. In addition to issuing securities to raise capital, we will continue to seek to securitize our loans to generate cash for funding new investments. To securitize loans, we would generally create a wholly-owned subsidiary and contribute a pool of loans to the subsidiary. This could include the sale of interests in the subsidiary on a non-recourse basis to purchasers who we would expect to be willing to accept a lower interest rate to invest in investment grade loan pools, and we retain a portion of the equity in the securitized pool of loans. An inability to successfully securitize our loan portfolio could limit our ability to grow our business, fully execute our business strategy and adversely affect our earnings, if any. Moreover, the securitization of our loan portfolio might expose us to losses as the residual loans in which we do not sell interests will tend to be those that are riskier and more apt to generate losses. Stockholders may incur dilution if we sell shares of our common stock in one or more offerings at prices below the then current net asset value per share of our common stock or issue securities to subscribe to, convert to or purchase shares of our common stock. At our 2008 annual meeting of stockholders, our stockholders approved two proposals designed to allow us to access the capital markets in ways that we were previously unable to as a result of restrictions that, absent stockholder approval, apply to business development companies under the 1940 Act. Specifically, our stockholders approved proposals that (1) authorize us to sell shares of our common stock below the then current net asset value per share of our common stock in one or more offerings for a period of one year ending on the earlier of June 23, 2009 or the date of our 2009 annual meeting of stockholders and (2) authorize us to issue securities to subscribe to, convert to, or purchase shares of our common stock in one or more offerings. Any decision to sell shares of our common stock below the then current net asset value per share of our common stock or securities 15 to subscribe to, convert to, or purchase shares of our common stock would be subject to the determination by our Board of Directors that such issuance is in our and our stockholders’ best interests. If we were to issue shares of our common stock below net asset value per share, such sales would result in an immediate dilution to existing common stockholders. This dilution would include reduction in the net asset value per share as a result of the issuance of shares at a price below the then current net asset value per share of our common stock and a proportionately greater decrease in a stockholder’s interest in our earnings and assets and voting interest in us than the increase in our assets resulting from such issuance. In addition, if we issue securities to subscribe to, convert to or purchase shares of common stock, the exercise or conversion of such securities would increase the number of outstanding shares of our common stock. Any such exercise would be dilutive on the voting power of existing stockholders, and could be dilutive with regard to dividends and our net asset value, and other economic aspects of the common stock. Because the number of shares of common stock that could be so issued and the timing of any issuance is not currently known, the actual dilutive effect cannot be predicted. We are dependent upon our key investment personnel for our future success. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of the investment professionals we employ for the sourcing, evaluation, negotiation, structuring and monitoring of our investments. Our future success will also depend, to a significant extent, on the continued service and coordination of our senior management team, particularly, Richard P. Buckanavage, our president and chief executive officer, and Timothy W. Hassler, our chief investment officer. The departure of Mr. Buckanavage, Mr. Hassler or any member of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective. In addition, if both of Messrs. Buckanavage and Hassler cease to be employed by us, the lender under our second amended and restated securitization revolving credit facility could, absent a waiver or cure, terminate the facility. Our business model depends to a significant extent upon strong referral relationships with private equity sponsors, and our inability to maintain or develop these relationships, or the failure of these relationships to generate investment opportunities, could adversely affect our business. We expect that members of our management team will maintain their relationships with private equity sponsors, and we will rely to a significant extent upon these relationships to provide us with potential investment opportunities. If our management team fails to maintain its existing relationships or develop new relationships with other sponsors or sources of investment opportunities, we will not be able to grow our investment portfolio. In addition, individuals with whom members of our management team have relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities, and, therefore, there is no assurance that such relationships will generate investment opportunities for us. We operate in a competitive market for investment opportunities. We compete for investments with other business development companies and other investment funds (including private equity funds and mezzanine funds), as well as traditional financial services companies such as commercial banks and other sources of funding. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us, including from federal government agencies through federal rescue programs such as the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Financial Stability Plan (which was formerly known as the Trouble Asset Relief Program). In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments. These characteristics could allow our competitors to consider a wider variety of investments, establish more relationships and offer better pricing and more flexible structuring than us. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure. If we are forced to match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure, we may not be able to achieve acceptable returns on our investments or may bear substantial risk of capital loss. Furthermore, many of our competitors have greater experience operating under, or are not subject to, the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a business development company. 16 We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. The agreements governing our second amended and restated securitization revolving credit facility contain various covenants and provide for certain minimum financial covenants. We have entered into a second amended and restated securitization revolving credit facility with an entity affiliated with BMO Capital Markets Corp. and Branch Banking and Trust Company. The agreements governing this facility contain customary default provisions such as the termination or departure of both Messrs. Buckanavage and Hassler, a material adverse change in our business and the failure to maintain certain minimum loan quality and performance standards. An event of default under the facility would result, among other things, in termination of the availability of further funds under the facility and an accelerated maturity date for all amounts outstanding under the facility, which would likely disrupt our business and, potentially, the portfolio companies whose loans we financed through the facility. This could reduce our revenues and, by delaying any cash payment allowed to us under the facility until the lender has been paid in full, reduce our liquidity and cash flow and impair our ability to grow our business and maintain our status as a RIC. If we default under certain provisions, the facility also limits our ability to declare dividends. As of December 31, 2008, we were in technical default of one of the debt covenants under the Amended Securitization Facility, which was cured within the timeframe allowed by the facility. Each loan origination under the facility is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to borrow funds under the facility at any particular time or at all. For a discussion of the possible occurrence of an event that will result in the termination of the availability of further funds under the facility and the requirement to immediately repay amounts outstanding under the facility over a period of two years, see “Risk Factors — There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern.” We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we fail to maintain our status as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code. To maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code, we must meet the following annual distribution, income source and asset diversification requirements. • The annual distribution requirement for a RIC will be satisfied if we distribute to our stockholders on an annual basis at least 90% of our net ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any. Because we use debt financing, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants under loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to satisfy the distribution requirement. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we could fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. • The income source requirement will be satisfied if we obtain at least 90% of our income for each year from dividends, interest, gains from the sale of stock or securities or similar sources. • The asset diversification requirement will be satisfied if we meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of our taxable year. Failure to meet those requirements may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly or delay the closing of new investments in order to prevent the loss of RIC status and could result in a loss of business. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, and therefore will be relatively illiquid, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and could result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment for any reason and are subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. 17 We may in the future choose to pay dividends in our own stock, in which case you may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash you receive. We may distribute taxable dividends that are payable in part in our stock. Under a recently issued IRS revenue procedure, up to 90% of any such taxable dividend for 2009 could be payable in our stock. Taxable stockholders receiving such dividends would be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income (or as long-term capital gain to the extent such distribution is properly designated as a capital gain dividend) to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for United States federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. stockholder may be required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of any cash received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. For federal income tax purposes, we will include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount, which may arise if we receive warrants in connection with the origination of a loan or possibly in other circumstances, such as in connection with the receipt of contractual payment-in-kind, or PIK, interest or dividends, which represents contractually deferred interest added to the loan balance that is generally due at the end of the loan term or contractually deferred dividends added to our equity investment in the portfolio company. Such original issue discount or contractual payment-in-kind arrangements will result in the recognition of income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we will not receive in cash. Since, in certain cases, we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the annual distribution requirement necessary to maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times and/or at prices we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investment originations for this purpose. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. For additional discussion regarding the tax implications of a RIC, please see “Business — Regulations — Taxation as a Regulated Investment Company.” We borrow money, which magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and may increase the risk of investing in us. Borrowings, also known as leverage, magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and, therefore, increase the risks associated with investing in us. We borrow from and issue senior debt securities to banks and other lenders. Holders of these senior securities have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our common stockholders. If the value of our assets increases, then leveraging would cause the net asset value attributable to our common stock to increase more sharply than it would have had we not leveraged. Conversely, if the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any increase in our income in excess of interest payable on the borrowed funds would cause our net income to increase more than it would without the leverage, while any decrease in our income would cause net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline could negatively affect our ability to make common stock dividend payments. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique. 18 Changes in interest rates may affect our cost of capital and net investment income. Because we borrow to fund our investments, a portion of our income is dependent upon the difference between the interest rate at which we borrow funds and the interest rate at which we invest these funds. A portion of our investments will have fixed interest rates, while a portion of our borrowings will likely have floating interest rates. As a result, a significant change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our net investment income. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds could increase, which would reduce our net investment income. We may hedge against interest rate fluctuations by using standard hedging instruments such as futures, options and forward contracts, subject to applicable legal requirements, including without limitation, all necessary registrations (or exemptions from registration) with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. These activities may limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio. Adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates or hedging transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, we have limited experience in entering into hedging transactions, and we will initially have to rely on outside parties with respect to the use of such financial instruments or develop such expertise internally. A significant portion of our investment portfolio is and will continue to be recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors and, as a result, there is and will continue to be uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. Under the 1940 Act, we are required to carry our portfolio investments at market value or, if there is no readily available market value, at fair value as determined by our board of directors. We are not permitted to maintain a general reserve for anticipated losses. Instead, we are required by the 1940 Act to specifically value each individual investment and record an unrealized loss for any asset we believe has decreased in value. Typically there is not a public market for the securities of the privately-held companies in which we have invested and will generally continue to invest. As a result, we value our investments in privately-held companies on a quarterly basis based on a determination of their fair value made in good faith and in accordance with the written guidelines established by our board of directors. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements,” we principally utilize the market approach to estimate the fair value of our equity investments where there is not a readily available market and we principally utilize the income approach to estimate the fair value of our debt investments where there is not a readily available market. Under the market approach, we estimate the enterprise value of the portfolio companies in which we invest. There is no one methodology to estimate enterprise value and, in fact, for any one portfolio company, enterprise value is best expressed as a range of fair values from which we derive a single estimate of enterprise value. To estimate the enterprise value of a portfolio company, we analyze various factors, including the portfolio company’s historical and projected financial results. We generally require portfolio companies to provide annual audited and quarterly and monthly unaudited financial statements, as well as annual projections for the upcoming fiscal year. Typically, private companies are valued based on multiples of EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization), cash flows, net income, revenues, or in limited cases, book value. The private equity industry uses financial measures such as EBITDA in order to assess a portfolio company’s financial performance and to value a portfolio company. When using EBITDA to determine enterprise value, we may adjust EBITDA for non-recurring items. Such adjustments are intended to normalize EBITDA to reflect the portfolio company’s earnings power. Adjustments to EBITDA may include compensation to previous owners, acquisition, recapitalization, restructuring related items and, one-time non-recurring income or expense items. Under the income approach, we generally prepare and analyze discounted cash flow models based on our projections of the future free cash flows of the business. We also use bond yield models to determine the present value of the future cash flow streams of our debt investments. We review various sources of transactional data, including private mergers and acquisitions involving debt investments with similar characteristics, and assess the information in the valuation process. The types of factors that may be considered in determining the fair value of our investments include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s earnings and its ability to make payments 19 on its indebtedness, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to publicly traded companies, discounted cash flow and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such securities. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. We generally make investments in private companies. Substantially all of these securities are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or are otherwise less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded our investments. We may also face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we have material non-public information regarding such portfolio company. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including our ability to make investments in companies that meet our investment criteria, the interest rate payable on the debt securities we acquire, the level of our expenses, prepayments of our debt securities, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business. We and our portfolio companies are subject to local, state and federal laws and regulations. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Accordingly, any change in these laws or regulations could have a material adverse affect on our business. Our board of directors may change our operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval, the effects of which may be adverse. Our board of directors has the authority to modify or waive our current operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results and value of our stock. However, the effects might be adverse, which could negatively impact our ability to pay dividends and cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Our investments in portfolio companies may be risky, and we could lose all or part of our investment. Investing in small- to mid-sized companies involves a number of significant risks. Among other things, these companies: • may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt instruments that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any guarantees that we may have obtained in connection with our investment; • may have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; 20 • are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; • generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. In addition, our executive officers and directors may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in the portfolio companies; and • generally have less publicly available information about their businesses, operations and financial condition. We are required to rely on the ability of our management team and investment professionals to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and may lose all or part of our investment. Our portfolio is and may continue to be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies and industries, which will subject us to a risk of significant loss if any of these companies defaults on its obligations under any of its debt instruments or by a downturn in the particular industry. Our portfolio is and may continue to be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies and industries. Beyond the asset diversification requirements associated with our qualification as a RIC, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and while we are not targeting any specific industries, our investments are, and could continue to be, concentrated in relatively few industries (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a schedule of investments by sector using Moody’s Industry Classifications). As a result, the aggregate returns we realize may be significantly adversely affected if a small number of investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one investment. Additionally, a downturn in any particular industry in which we are invested could also significantly impact the aggregate returns we realize. Price declines and illiquidity in the large corporate leverage loan market have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the fair value of our syndicated loan portfolio, reducing our net asset value through increased net unrealized depreciation. The continuing unprecedented declines in prices and illiquidity in the large corporate leverage loan market have resulted in significant unrealized depreciation in our syndicated loan portfolio. Conditions in the large corporate leverage loan market may continue to deteriorate which could cause pricing levels to continue to decline. As a result, we may continue to suffer additional unrealized losses and could incur significant realized losses in future periods in connection with the sale of our syndicated loans, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. We invest primarily in senior secured loans, junior secured loans and subordinated debt issued by small- to mid-sized companies. Our portfolio companies may have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may entitle the holders to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments with respect to the debt instruments in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt instruments in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other 21 creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. Second priority liens on collateral securing loans that we make to our portfolio companies may be subject to control by senior creditors with first priority liens. If there is a default, the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to repay in full both the first priority creditors and us. Certain loans that we make to portfolio companies may be secured on a second priority basis by the same collateral securing senior secured debt of such companies. The first priority liens on the collateral will secure the portfolio company’s obligations under any outstanding senior debt and may secure certain other future debt that may be permitted to be incurred by the portfolio company under the agreements governing the loans. The holders of obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral will generally control the liquidation of and be entitled to receive proceeds from any realization of the collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of the collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from the sale or sales of all of the collateral would be sufficient to satisfy the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens after payment in full of all obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral. If such proceeds are not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens, then we, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral, will only have an unsecured claim against the portfolio company’s remaining assets, if any. The rights we may have with respect to the collateral securing the loans we make to our portfolio companies with senior debt outstanding may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements that we enter into with the holders of senior debt. Under such an intercreditor agreement, at any time that obligations that have the benefit of the first priority liens are outstanding, any of the following actions that may be taken in respect of the collateral will be at the direction of the holders of the obligations secured by the first priority liens: the ability to cause the commencement of enforcement proceedings against the collateral; the ability to control the conduct of such proceedings; the approval of amendments to collateral documents; releases of liens on the collateral; and waivers of past defaults under collateral documents. We may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if our rights are adversely affected. There may be circumstances where our debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or we could be subject to lender liability claims. Even though we may have structured certain of our investments as senior loans, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might re-characterize our debt investment and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. We may also be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by us with respect to a borrower’s business or instances where we exercise control over the borrower. It is possible that we could become subject to a lender’s liability claim, including as a result of actions taken in rendering significant managerial assistance. We may not control any of our portfolio companies. We may not control any of our portfolio companies, even though we may have board representation or board observation rights and our debt agreements may contain certain restrictive covenants. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree and the management of such company, as representatives of the equity stockholders, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as debt investors. Defaults by our portfolio companies will harm our operating results. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize the portfolio company’s ability to meet its 22 obligations under the debt investments that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. Prepayments of our debt investments by our portfolio companies could adversely impact our results of operations and reduce our return on equity. We are subject to the risk that the investments we make in our portfolio companies may be repaid prior to maturity. When this occurs, we will generally reinvest these proceeds in temporary investments, pending their future investment in new portfolio companies. These temporary investments will typically have substantially lower yields than the debt being prepaid and we could experience significant delays in reinvesting these amounts. Any future investment in a new portfolio company may also be at lower yields than the debt that was repaid. As a result, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our portfolio companies elects to prepay amounts owed to us. Additionally, prepayments could negatively impact our return on equity, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. We may not realize gains from our equity investments. Certain investments that we have made in the past and may make in the future include warrants or other equity securities. In addition, we may from time to time make non-control, equity co-investments in companies in conjunction with private equity sponsors. Our goal is ultimately to realize gains upon our disposition of such equity interests. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. We also may be unable to realize any value if a portfolio company does not have a liquidity event, such as a sale of the business, recapitalization or public offering, which would allow us to sell the underlying equity interests. There is a risk that you may not receive dividends or that our dividends may not grow over time. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. In addition, due to the asset coverage test applicable to us as a business development company and financial covenants contained in our loan agreements, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. Investing in our shares may involve an above average degree of risk. The investments we make in accordance with our investment objective may result in a higher amount of risk than alternative investment options and volatility or loss of principal. Our investments in portfolio companies may be highly speculative and aggressive, and therefore, an investment in our shares may not be suitable for someone with lower risk tolerance. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price and liquidity of the market for shares of our common stock may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include: • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of business development companies or other companies in our sector, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; • changes in regulatory policies, accounting pronouncements or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs or business development companies; • loss of RIC status; • changes in earnings or variations in operating results; 23 • changes in the value of our portfolio of investments; • any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; • departure of our key personnel; • operating performance of companies comparable to us; • general economic trends and other external factors; and • loss of a major funding source. Shares of closed-end investment companies, including BDCs, may trade at a discount to their net asset value. Shares of closed-end investment companies, including BDCs, may trade at a discount from net asset value. This characteristic of closed-end investment companies and BDCs is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share may decline. We cannot predict whether our common stock will trade at, above or below net asset value. In recent quarters, the price of our common stock has traded at prices below our net asset value. It should be noted that substantially all of the other BDCs share prices have also traded at prices below their net asset value. In addition, if our common stock trades below net asset value, we will generally not be able to issue additional common stock at the market price unless our stockholders approve such a sale and our Board of Directors makes certain determinations. See “Risk Factors — Stockholders may incur dilution if we sell shares of our common stock in one or more offerings at prices below the then current net asset value per share of our common stock or issue securities to subscribe to, convert to or purchase shares of our common stock” for a discussion of proposals approved by our stockholders that permit us to issue shares of our common stock below net asset value. Our common stock could be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Select Market if we are unable to maintain our compliance with Nasdaq listing requirements. In recent months, many public companies whose securities trade on the Nasdaq Global Select Market have experienced significant volatility and sharp declines in their stock prices. In general, in order to meet Nasdaq’s continued listing standards, the closing bid of a company’s common stock must be at least $1.00 per share. Recently, a large number of companies have seen their common stock trade at prices below $1.00 per share. In recognition of this, on October 16, 2008, Nasdaq made a rule filing with the SEC to temporarily suspend its bid price continued listing requirement until January 16, 2009. On December 19, 2008, Nasdaq further extended this time period through April 20, 2009. Absent Nasdaq’s recent actions, if the closing bid price per share for our common stock were to fall below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days, we would receive notification from Nasdaq indicating that we are not in compliance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5). In accordance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4450(e)(2), we would then be provided 180 calendar days to regain compliance. To regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement, the closing bid price of our common stock must remain at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. If we were unable to regain compliance, we would be able to apply to list our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market and Nasdaq will determine whether we meet the Nasdaq Capital Market initial listing criteria as set forth in Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c), except for the minimum bid price requirement. If we were able to meet the Nasdaq Capital Market initial listing criteria, Nasdaq may notify us that we have been granted an additional 180 calendar days to come into compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. If we were not able to meet the initial listing criteria, Nasdaq may provide us with written notification that our common stock would be delisted. At that time, we would be permitted to appeal Nasdaq’s determination to delist our common stock to a Nasdaq Listings Qualifications Panel. Delisting from the Nasdaq could have an adverse effect on our business and on the trading of our common stock. If a delisting of our common stock from Nasdaq were to occur, our common stock would trade 24 on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board or on the “pink sheets” maintained by the National Quotation Bureau, Inc. Such alternatives generally are considered to be less efficient markets, and our stock price, as well as the liquidity of our common stock, could be affected adversely. Terrorist attacks, acts of war or natural disasters may affect any market for our common stock, impact the businesses in which we invest and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Terrorist acts, acts of war or natural disasters may disrupt our operations, as well as the operations of the businesses in which we invest. Such acts have created, and continue to create, economic and political uncertainties and have contributed to global economic instability. Future terrorist activities, military or security operations, or natural disasters could further weaken the domestic/global economies and create additional uncertainties, which may negatively impact the businesses in which we invest directly or indirectly and, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Losses from terrorist attacks and natural disasters are generally uninsurable. Certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws as well as the Delaware General Corporation Law could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation and our restated bylaws as well as the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us. These anti-takeover provisions may inhibit a change in control in circumstances that could give the holders of our common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price for our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 