D. Risk Factors Our operations are highly speculative due to, among other things, the high-risk nature of our business, which includes the acquisition, financing, exploration and, if warranted, development of mineral properties. Accordingly, any investment in our Common Shares involves a high degree of risk and should be considered speculative. While we consider the risks set out below and incorporated by reference herein to be the most significant to potential investors, they are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also materially adversely affect our operations, business and financial condition. If any of these risks materialize into actual events or circumstances, our assets, liabilities, financial condition, results of operations (including future results of operations), business and business prospects, are likely to be materially and adversely affected. In such circumstances, the price of our securities could decline and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Accordingly, potential investors should carefully consider the risks set out below and other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report before purchasing Common Shares. Risks Relating to the Company We have a limited operating history. We have a limited history of operations and all of our properties are in the exploration stage. In May 2014, we entered into a letter of intent to sell our entire portfolio of non-core early stage exploration assets to concentrate our efforts on the Railroad-Pinion Project on Nevada’s Carlin Trend. In the event that sale transaction does not close, we may incur additional losses and expenses in order to maintain our interests in those assets. We have not generated any operating revenues. As such, we are subject to many risks common to such enterprises, including under-capitalization, cash shortages, limitations with respect to personnel and lack of revenues. We have a history of losses and negative operating cash flow and expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We have not been profitable since our inception, we had negative cash flow from operational activities and we do not expect to generate revenues in the foreseeable future. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014, we had a loss and comprehensive loss of $11,708,637 (2013- $4,357,959). As at December 31 2014, we had an accumulated deficit of $28,841,501 (2013 - $17,132,864). To become profitable, we must first establish commercial quantities of mineral reserves on its properties, and then either develop such properties or locate and enter into agreements with third party operators to bring such properties into production. Mineral exploration and development involves a high degree of risk that even a combination of careful evaluation, experience and knowledge cannot eliminate, and few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. In the event we undertake development activity on any of our properties, there is no certainty that we will produce revenues, operate profitably or provide a return on investment in the future. It could be years before we receive any revenues from the production of gold or other precious metals, if ever. We may suffer significant additional losses in the future and may never be profitable. 3 We may not be able to continue as a going concern. We have limited financial resources and no operating revenues. To maintain our existing interest in the Railroad-Pinion and other projects, we have contractually agreed to make certain expenditures on our properties. The report of the independent auditors to our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 contained a note that indicated the existence of material uncertainties that raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon, among other things, establishing commercial quantities of mineral reserves on our properties and obtaining the necessary financing to develop and profitably produce such minerals or, alternatively, disposing of our interests on a profitable basis. Any unexpected costs, problems or delays could severely impact our ability to continue exploration and development activities. Should we be unable to continue as a going concern, realization of assets and settlement of liabilities in other than the normal course of business may be at amounts materially different than the our estimates. The amounts attributed to our exploration properties in our financial statements represent acquisition and exploration costs and should not be taken to represent realizable value. The majority of our mineral projects have no mineral resources and no reserves. We currently have an interest in four mineral projects located in north central Nevada: the Railroad-Pinion Project, the Safford-CVN Project, the East Bailey Project and the East Camp Douglas Project. The Railroad-Pinion Project is considered an early to intermediate stage exploration project with a favourable structural, geological and stratigraphic setting that is situated at the southeast end of the Carlin Trend. More than 40 separate gold deposits have been delineated along the Carlin Trend with production exceeding 80 million ounces of gold. Save for the Pinion and Dark Star Deposits, the Railroad-Pinion Project has no known NI 43-101 compliant mineral resources or reserves. However, historic and current exploration in the Railroad Project area as outlined in the 2015 Railroad-Pinion Report demonstrates that the Railroad Project is a well mineralized area that has the potential to yield future mineral resources with additional exploration. While the 2015 Railroad-Pinion Report does not contain an estimate for mineral resources or mineral reserves for the Railroad Project, it does make reference to certain historical estimates for gold on portions of the Railroad Project. We do not treat these historical estimates, or any part of them, as current mineral resources or reserves as defined by NI 43-101, as there is insufficient information available to fully assess data quality, complete estimation procedures, and the standards by which the estimates were completed or categorized. In addition, no gold has been produced from the historical estimates. The historical estimates have been included in the 2015 Railroad-Pinion Report simply to demonstrate the mineral potential of certain target areas within the Railroad Project. A thorough review of all historic data performed by a “qualified person” as defined in NI 43-101, along with additional exploration and validation work to confirm results and estimation parameters, would be required in order to produce a current and compliant NI 43-101 mineral resource estimate for the subject targets. 4 For these reasons, among others, the historical estimates included in the 2015 Railroad-Pinion Report with respect to the Railroad Project should not be relied upon as a guarantee of mineral resources or reserves. Actual mineral resources or reserves, if any, may differ significantly. The Safford-CVN, East Bailey and East Camp Douglas Projects are in the early exploration stage and, like the Railroad Project, are without known mineral resources or reserves. Newmont Mining Corporation has retained a back-in right on a portion of the Railroad Project, which, if exercised, could dilute our interest in that portion of the Railroad Project. We have leased a portion of the property comprising the Railroad-Pinion Project from Newmont Mining Corporation (“Newmont”). The lease relates to 640 acres of fee surface rights and 1,280 acres of fee mineral rights and 1,280 acres of mining claims. However, Newmont has retained a back-in right over the leased property, which allows them to re-acquire up to a 70% interest in this portion of the Railroad Project. If Newmont exercises its back-in right, our interest in that portion of the Railroad Project would decline. See Item 4D “Property, Plants and Equipment”. We will require additional capital to develop our mineral properties or complete further exploration programs. Our current operations do not generate any cash flow. Future work on our properties will require additional financing. At December 31, 2014, we had cash and cash equivalents of $494,878 and a working capital deficit of $4,035,579. Subsequent to December 31, 2014, we completed a public offering of 19,032,000 common shares at a price of U.S.$0.47 per share for gross proceeds of U.S.$8,945,040 to pay the balance of the purchase price due to Scorpio, fund additional exploration of the Railroad-Pinion Project and for general corporate and working capital purposes. See Item 4A “ History and Development of the Company - Recent Financings”. While we estimate that the balance of the net proceeds from this public offering will enable us to carry out small portions of the Phase 1 and Phase 2 exploration programs on the Pinion Project recommended in the Pinion Resource Report, we will require additional capital to complete Phases 1 and 2, and, if warranted, carry out additional exploration work. Furthermore, if we are successful in identifying additional resources through additional drilling and analysis, we will require significant amounts of additional capital to construct a mill and other facilities and to develop metallurgical processes to extract those resources at any mine site. There are no assurances that we will be able to obtain additional funding to allow us to fund such costs in whole or in part. Failure to obtain such additional financing could result in the delay or indefinite postponement of further exploration and the possible, partial or total loss of our interest in certain properties. We will also require additional funding to acquire further property interests, maintain or carry out additional exploration work on its other mineral projects and for general and administrative and working capital purposes. Our ability to arrange financing in the future will depend, in part, upon the prevailing capital market conditions as well as our business performance. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in its efforts to arrange additional financing on satisfactory terms or at all. If we raise additional financing through the issuance of shares from our treasury, control of our company may change and existing shareholders will suffer additional dilution. Calculations of mineral resources and reserves are only estimates. The Pinion Deposit contains a NI 43-101 compliant resource of 20.84 million tonnes at 0.63 g/t Au for a total of 423,000 ounces of gold (indicated) and 55.93 million tonnes at 0.57 g/t Au for 1.022 million ounces of gold (inferred). In addition, the Dark Star Deposit contains a NI 43-101 compliant resource of 23.11 million tonnes grading 0.51 g/t Au totaling 375,000 ounces of gold (inferred). 5 However, the estimating of mineral reserves and resources is a subjective process and the accuracy of such estimates is a function of the quantity and quality of available data and the assumptions used and judgments made in interpreting engineering and geological information. There is significant uncertainty in any mineral resource or reserve estimate, and the actual deposits encountered and the economic viability of mining a deposit may differ materially from our estimates. Estimated mineral resources or reserves may have to be recalculated based on changes in metal prices, further exploration or development activity or actual production experience. These changes could materially and adversely affect estimates of the volume or grade of mineralization, estimated recovery rates or other important factors that influence estimates of mineral resources and reserves. Any material change in the quantity of mineral resources and reserves, mineralization, grade or stripping ratio may affect the economic viability of our properties. In addition, there can be no assurance that gold recoveries or other metal recoveries in small-scale laboratory tests will be duplicated in larger scale tests under on-site conditions or during production. Save for the Pinion Deposit, as of the date of this Annual Report, there are no known resources or reserves on the Railroad-Pinion Project or any of our other mineral projects. We may experience difficulty attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Our success will be largely dependent upon the experience, judgment, discretion, integrity, good faith and performance of our management and key employees, such as Jonathan T. Awde, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Mac R. Jackson, Jr., Vice-President, Exploration. We could be adversely affected if such individuals do not remain with us. We do not maintain life insurance policies in respect of our key personnel. See Item 6 “Directors, Senior Management and Employees.” Our future success will also be highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain key individuals to act as directors and executives who have the necessary skills and abilities to successfully grow the Company. Locating mineral deposits depends on a number of factors, not the least of which is the technical skill and expertise of the personnel involved. The competition for qualified personnel in the mineral resource industry is intense and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to attract and retain all personnel necessary for the development and operation of our business. Failure to retain existing management and key employees or to attract and retain additional key individuals could have a materially adverse impact upon our success. We may incur expenses and suffer losses if the Tanqueray LOI is not completed. We have entered into the Tanqueray LOI to sell the Safford-CVN, East Bailey and East Camp Douglas Projects in north-central Nevada to Tanqueray in exchange for a combination of cash and common shares in the capital stock of Tanqueray. See Item 4B “Business Overview.” Closing of the Tanqueray LOI is anticipated to take place on or about May 31, 2015 and is subject to a number of conditions including, but not limited to, a consolidation of Tanqueray’s issued shares on a three to one basis, Tanqueray raising a minimum of $1,500,000 prior to or concurrently with the closing in order to, among other things, fund the cash portion of the purchase price for the Non-Core Assets (as defined below) and the acceptance of the TSXV. Due to poor market conditions, closing of the Tanqueray LOI (which was originally contemplated for August 15, 2014) has been delayed. As a result, we have agreed to reimburse Tanqueray for its out-of-pocket costs incurred in obtaining shareholder approval for the Tanqueray LOI totaling approximately $29,000 (paid) and certain additional general and administrative expenses incurred by Tanqueray prior to February 28, 2015 up to an additional $11,432 (paid). In April 2014, we paid additional reimbursement in the amount of $13,500. In addition, in an effort to facilitate raising the minimum financing of $1,500,000 by Tanqueray, we have reduced the purchase price for the Non-Core Assets to $300,000 cash and 4,000,000 post-consolidated common shares of Tanqueray payable upon closing. We have also agreed to be responsible for all ongoing BLM fees, property taxes and lease payments required to maintain the Non-Core Assets in good standing up to closing of the Tanqueray LOI. There is no assurance that Tanqueray will be successful in raising the minimum funds required under the concurrent financing or that all other conditions to closing will be satisfied or waived. In the event the Tanqueray LOI is not completed, we will be required to incur additional expenses to maintain the Non-Core Assets in good standing and may suffer additional losses as a result thereof. For further details, please see Item 5B “Liquidity and Capital Resources - “Tanqueray LOI.” 6 We are subject to foreign currency fluctuations. Our financial results are reported in Canadian dollars. Our exploration properties are located in the United States and we incur most of our expenditures in United States dollars. Any appreciation in the currency of the United States against the Canadian dollar will increase our costs of carrying out operations and our ability to continue to finance our operations. Such fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. See Item 3A “Selected Financial Data-Exchange Rate History.” Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of United States Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“SOX”), which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. During the course of our testing, we may identify material weaknesses. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of SOX. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of the Common Shares could drop significantly. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Future acquisitions of companies, if any, may provide us with challenges in implementing the required processes, procedures and controls in our acquired operations. No evaluation can provide complete assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will detect or uncover all failures of persons within the Company to disclose material information otherwise required to be reported. The effectiveness of our processes, procedures and controls could also be limited by simple errors or faulty judgments. There is no certainty that we will be successful in complying with Section 404 of SOX on an ongoing basis. Conflicts of interest may arise among our board of directors as a result of their involvement with other natural resource companies. Certain of our directors are also directors or officers of other companies that are similarly engaged in the business of acquiring, developing, and exploiting natural resource properties. Such associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time if we were to enter into negotiations to acquire an interest in a mineral project in which their other companies hold an interest, or we were to enter into negotiations to sell an interest in our mineral properties to, or enter into a joint venture with, any of these companies. Our directors are required to act honestly and in good faith with a view to our best interests and disclose any interest which they may have in any of our projects or opportunities. If a conflict of interest arises at a meeting of the board of directors, any director with a conflict must disclose his interest and abstain from voting on such matter. As a result of these conflicts of interests, we may miss the opportunity to participate in certain transactions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, operations and financial position. 7 Our growth, future profitability and ability to obtain financing may be impacted by global financial conditions. In recent years, global financial markets have been characterized by extreme volatility impacting many industries, including the mining industry. Global financial conditions remain subject to sudden and rapid destabilizations in response to future economic shocks, as government authorities may have limited resources to respond to future crises. A sudden or prolonged slowdown in the financial markets or other economic conditions, including but not limited to, consumer spending, employment rates, business conditions, inflation, fuel and energy costs, consumer debt levels, lack of available credit, the state of the financial markets, interest rates and tax rates, may adversely affect our growth and profitability. Future economic shocks may be precipitated by a number of causes, including, but not limited to, material changes in the price of oil and other commodities, the volatility of metal prices, geopolitical instability, war, terrorism, the devaluation and volatility of global stock markets and natural disasters. Any sudden or rapid destabilization of global economic conditions could impact our ability to obtain equity or debt financing in the future on terms we find favorable or at all, which may have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, operations and financial position Risks Relating to the Mining Industry Exploration and development of mineral properties involve a high degree of risk and few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing properties. Exploration and development of mineral properties involve a high degree of risk and few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing properties. There is no assurance that our exploration activities will result in any discoveries of commercial bodies of ore. There is also no assurance that even if commercial quantities of ore are discovered, a property will be brought into commercial production or that the metallurgical processing will produce economically viable saleable products. The commercial viability of a deposit once discovered and the decision as to whether it should be brought into production will depend upon the results of exploration programs and/or feasibility studies, and the recommendations of qualified engineers and/or geologists, all of which involves significant expense. This decision will also involve consideration and evaluation of several significant factors including, but not limited to: · costs of bringing a property into production, including exploration and development work, preparation of feasibility studies and construction of production facilities · availability and costs of financing · ongoing costs of production · market prices for the minerals to be produced · environmental compliance regulations and restraints (including potential environmental liabilities associated with historical exploration activities) · political climate and/or governmental regulation and control. Many of these factors are beyond our control. 8 We are subject to substantial operating hazards and risks beyond our control. The exploration, development and operation of mineral properties is inherently dangerous and involves many risks that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome, including, but not limited to: · difficult surface or underground conditions · water conditions · unexpected or unusual rock conditions or geological operating conditions, including rock bursts, cave-ins, ground fall, slope failures and landslides · fires, explosions, flooding, adverse weather conditions and earthquakes · unanticipated variations in grade and other geological problems · failure of pit walls or dams · adverse environmental conditions or hazards · mechanical and equipment performance problems · power failures and interruptions. These risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties, production facilities or other properties, personal injury or death, including to our employees, environmental damage, delays in mining, increased production costs, asset write downs, monetary losses and possible legal liability. While we maintain insurance to insure against general commercial liability claims, such insurance will not cover all of the potential risks associated with our operations at economically feasible premiums or at all. Currently, we are not insured against most environmental risks. Losses from any one or more of these events that are not covered by our insurance policies may cause us to incur significant costs that could materially adversely affect our financial condition and ability to fund activities on our properties. A significant loss could force us to reduce or terminate our operations and even result in bankruptcy. We may not have clear title to our properties. Our ability to explore and operate our properties depends on the validity of title to our properties. The mineral claims currently making up our properties consist of both patented and unpatented mining claims. Unpatented mining claims are unique property interests and are generally considered to be subject to greater risk than other real property interests because the validity of unpatented mining claims is often uncertain. Unpatented mining claims provide only possessory title and their validity is often subject to contest by third parties or the federal government. These uncertainties relate to such things as the sufficiency of mineral discovery, proper posting and marking of boundaries, assessment work, unregistered agreements, undetected defects and possible conflicts with other claims not determinable from descriptions of record. Since a substantial portion of all mineral exploration, development and mining in the United States now occurs on unpatented mining claims, this uncertainty is inherent in the mining industry. No assurances can be given that title defects to our current properties or any future properties in which we may seek to acquire an interest do not exist. Such defects may impair our development of the underlying property and result in the loss of all or a portion of the property to which the title defect relates. 9 Title insurance is generally not available for mineral properties and our ability to ensure that we have obtained secure claim to individual mineral properties or mining concessions may be severely constrained. Our mineral properties may be subject to prior unregistered agreements, transfers or claims, and title may be affected by, among other things, undetected defects. We will also remain at risk that the mining claims may be forfeited either to the United States government or to rival private claimants due to failure to comply with statutory requirements as to location and maintenance of the claims or challenges to whether a discovery of a valuable mineral exists on every claim. Our current mineral properties are also subject to annual compliance with assessment work and/or fee requirements, property taxes, lease payments and other contractual payments and obligations. Any failure to make such payments or comply with such requirements or obligations could result in the loss of all or a portion of our interest in the properties. Our operations are subject to various governmental and regulatory requirements. Our current and future operations, including exploration and development activities and, if applicable, commencement of production on our properties, require permits from various federal, state and local governmental authorities, as well as approval of members of surrounding communities. Such operations are also subject to extensive federal, state, and local laws, regulations and policies governing various matters, including: · environmental protection · management and use of toxic substances and explosives · management of natural resources · exploration and development of mines, production and post-closure reclamation; · exports · price controls · taxation and mining royalties · regulations concerning business dealings with native groups · management of tailing and other waste generated by operations · labor standards and occupational health and safety, including mine safety · historic and cultural preservation. Permits and studies may be necessary prior to operation of the exploration properties in which we have an interest and there can be no guarantee that we will be able to obtain or maintain all necessary permits that may be required to commence construction or operation of mining facilities at these properties on terms that enable operations to be conducted at economically justifiable costs. We cannot be certain that all permits and approvals which we may require for our future operations will be obtainable on reasonable terms or that such laws and regulations would not have an adverse effect on any mining project that we might undertake. To the extent such permits and approvals are required and are not obtained, we may be delayed or prohibited from proceeding with planned exploration or development of mineral properties, which would adversely affect our business, prospects and operations. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment or remedial actions. Parties engaged in mining operations may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the mining activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed upon them for violation of applicable laws or regulations. Amendments to current laws and regulations and permits governing operations and activities of mining companies, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have a material adverse impact on us and cause increases in capital expenditures or exploration costs, reduction in levels of exploration or abandonment or delays in the development of mining properties. 10 We may face equipment shortages, access restrictions and lack of infrastructure. Natural resource exploration, development and mining activities are dependent on the availability of mining, drilling and related equipment in the particular areas where such activities are conducted. A limited supply of such equipment or access restrictions may affect the availability of such equipment to us and may delay exploration, development or extraction activities. Certain equipment may not be immediately available, or may require long lead time orders. A delay in obtaining necessary equipment for mineral exploration, including drill rigs, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. Mining, processing, development and exploration activities also depend, to one degree or another, on the availability of adequate infrastructure. Reliable roads, bridges, power sources, fuel and water supply and the availability of skilled labor and other infrastructure are important determinants, which affect capital and operating costs. The lack of availability on acceptable terms or the delay in the availability of any one or more of these items could prevent or delay development of our projects. In accordance with the laws of the State of Nevada, we will need to obtain permits to drill water wells in connection with our future exploration and, if applicable, development and production activities at our Nevada properties. However, the amount of water that we will be entitled to use from those wells will not be determined by the appropriate regulatory authorities until a future date. A final determination of these rights will be dependent in part on our ability to demonstrate a beneficial use for the amount of water that we intend to use. Unless we are successful in developing our Nevada properties to a point where we can commence commercial production of gold or other precious metals, we may not be able to demonstrate such beneficial use. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we will have access to the amount of water needed to operate a mine at our Nevada properties. Our activities are subject to environmental laws and regulations that may increase our costs and restrict our operations. All phases of our operations will be subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations address, among other things, the maintenance of air and water quality standards, land reclamation, the generation, transportation, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous waste, and the protection of natural resources and endangered species. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner that will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects, and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may require significant capital outlays on our behalf and may cause material changes or delays in our intended activities. Future changes in environmental regulation, if any, may adversely affect our operations, make our operations prohibitively expensive, or prohibit them altogether. Environmental hazards may exist on our current properties and on properties in which we may hold interests in the future that are unknown to us at the present and that have been caused by us or by previous owners or operators of the properties, or that may have occurred naturally. We may be liable for remediating such damages. Failure to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions thereunder, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities, causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions. 11 Future production, if any, at our properties will involve the use of hazardous materials. Should these materials leak or otherwise be discharged from their containment systems, we may become subject to liability. At present, we maintain only limited insurance for environmental risks which may not cover or adequately protect us from all potential liabilities including, but not limited to, pollution or other hazards as a result of the disposal of waste products occurring from exploration or production. In addition, neighboring landowners and other third parties could file claims based on environmental statutes and common law for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other waste material into the environment on or around our properties. There can be no assurance that our defense of such claims will be successful. A successful claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to the volatility in the market price of gold and other metals, which in the past have fluctuated widely. The market price of gold and other metals has experienced volatile and significant price movements over short periods of time, and is affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: · international economic and political trend · expectations of inflation · currency exchange fluctuations (specifically, the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies) · interest rates · global or regional consumption patterns · speculative activities, · purchases and sales of gold by central banks · availability and costs of substitutes · increased production due to improved mining and production methods. The effect of these factors on metal prices cannot be predicted. A decrease in the price of gold or other relevant metal prices at any time during exploration, development or production, if any, of our properties may prevent our properties from being economically mined or may result in the write-off of assets whose value is impaired as a result of lower metal prices. A sustained period of declining gold and other applicable metal prices would adversely affect our financial performance, financial position and results of operations. Our competition is intense in all phases of our business. We compete with many companies in the mining industry, including large, established mining companies. There is a limited supply of desirable mineral lands available for claim-staking, lease or acquisition in the United States, particularly Nevada, and other areas where we may conduct exploration activities. We may be at a competitive disadvantage in acquiring mineral properties, since we will be competing with individuals and companies, many of which have greater financial resources, operational experience and technical capabilities. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new laws and regulations or emerging technologies, or devote greater resources to the expansion or efficiency of their operations than we can. In addition, current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties. Our inability to successfully compete with other companies would have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and business. 12 Legislation has been proposed that would significantly affect the mining industry. Periodically, members of the U.S. Congress have introduced bills that would supplant or alter the provisions of the General Mining Law of 1872, which governs the unpatented claims that we currently control within our properties. One such amendment has become law and has imposed a moratorium on patenting of mining claims, which reduced the security of title provided by unpatented claims such as those in the Railroad-Pinion, Safford-CVN, East Bailey and East Camp Douglas Projects. If additional legislation is enacted, it could substantially increase the cost of holding unpatented mining claims by requiring payment of royalties, and could significantly impair our ability to develop mineral resources on unpatented mining claims. Such bills have proposed, among other things, to make permanent the patent moratorium, to impose a federal royalty on production from unpatented mining claims and to declare certain lands as unsuitable for mining. Although it is impossible to predict at this time what royalties may be imposed in the future, the imposition of such royalties could adversely affect the potential for development of such mining claims, and the economics of operating mines on federal unpatented mining claims. Passage of such legislation could adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to issues relating to security and human rights. Civil disturbances and criminal activities such as trespass, illegal mining, theft, vandalism and terrorism may cause disruptions at our operations in Nevada. Such incidents may halt or delay exploration, increase operating costs, result in harm to employees or trespassers, decrease operational efficiency, increase community tensions or result in criminal and/or civil liability for us or our employees and/or financial damages or penalties. The manner in which our personnel respond to civil disturbances and criminal activities can give rise to additional risks where those responses are not conducted in accordance with applicable laws. The failure to conduct security operations in accordance with these standards can result in harm to employees or community members, increase community tensions, result in reputational harm to us and our partners or result in criminal and civil liability for us or our employees and financial damages or penalties. It is not possible to determine with certainty the future costs that we may incur in dealing with the issues described above at our operations. We are dependent on information technology and our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including cybersecurity risks and data leakage risks. Any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction or interruption of our systems by employees, others with authorized access to our systems or unauthorized persons could negatively impact operations. There is also a risk that we could experience a business interruption, theft of information, or reputational damage as a result of a cyber-attack, such as an infiltration of a data center, or data leakage of confidential information either internally or at our third-party providers. While we have invested in the protection of our data and informational technology to reduce these risks and periodically test the security of our information systems network, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect or business. Management is not aware of a cybersecurity incident that has had a material impact on our operations. 13 Risks Relating to Shares We have never paid dividends and do not expect to do so in the foreseeable future. We have not declared or paid any dividends on the Common Shares and do not expect to do so in the foreseeable future. Future earnings, if any, will likely be retained to finance growth. Any return on investment in the Common Shares will come from the appreciation, if any, in the value thereof. The payment of any future dividends will depend upon our earnings, if any, our then-existing financial requirements and other factors, and will be at the discretion of our Board. There is no active, stable market for the Common Shares. Our Common Shares are listed on the TSXV in Canada and on the NYSE MKT. During the past year, trading in our Common Shares has, at times, been limited, sporadic and subject to large fluctuations in market price, which may result in losses to investors. There are no assurances that an active, stable market will develop or be sustained in the future. Since January 1, 2014, the trading price of the our Common Shares on the TSXV has ranged from a low of $0.47 per share to a high of $0.92 per share and on the NYSE MKT from a low of U.S.$0.37 per share to a high of U.S.$0.83 per share. If an active, stable public market for the Common Shares does not develop in the future, or if developed, is not sustained, the liquidity of our Common Shares may be limited. The liquidity of the trading market in our Common Shares, and the market price for the Common Shares, may be adversely affected by, among other things: · the price of gold and other metals; · our operating performance and the performance of competitors and other similar companies; · the public’s reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and our filings with the various securities regulatory authorities; · the results of our exploration programs and/or resource estimates (initial or otherwise) for the Railroad-Pinion Project; · our ability to obtain adequate financing for further exploration and development; · changes in our financial performance or prospects; · changes in general economic conditions; · the number of Common Shares to be publicly traded after a public offering or private placement of securities; · the arrival or departure of key personnel; · acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures involving us or our competitors; · changes or perceived changes in our creditworthiness; · performance and prospects for companies in the mining industry generally; · the number of holders of the Common Shares; · the interest of securities dealers in making a market for the Common Shares; · prevailing interest rates; and · changes in global business or macroeconomic conditions. The market price of our Common Shares is also affected by many variables not directly related to the our success and therefore not within our control, including other developments that affect the market for all resource sector shares, the breadth of the public market for the Common Shares, and the attractiveness of alternative investments. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for mining company stocks in particular, has historically experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and in the mining sector such stocks have suffered significant declines. Volatility in the market price for a particular issuer’s securities has often been unrelated to the operating performance of that issuer. As a result of any of these factors, the market price of the Common Shares at any given point in time may not accurately reflect the long-term value of our company. Volatility in our share price also increases the risk of securities class action litigation. 14 Future sales or issuances of Common Shares or the exercise of options and warrants could cause the market price of the Common Shares to decrease significantly, dilute investors’ voting power and reduce earnings per share. We may in the future sell additional equity or equity-linked securities or grant to some or all of its directors, officers, key employees and consultants options to purchase Common Shares. We cannot predict the size of future sales and issuances of equity or equity-linked securities or the effect, if any, that such future sales and issuances will have on the market price of the Common Shares. Sales or issuances of a substantial number of equity or equity-linked securities, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the prevailing market price for the Common Shares and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Our current operations do not generate any cash flow and we will require significant additional financing to fund further exploration and/or development activities or to fulfill its obligations under applicable agreements for the Railroad-Pinion Project and other properties. Our Board has the authority to authorize certain offers and sales of additional securities without the vote of, or prior notice to, shareholders, and given its current stage of development, we believe the most realistic source of funds presently available to it is through the sale of equity capital. While there are no assurances we will be able to raise additional financing on reasonably commercial terms or at all, such additional financings may involve the issuance of a significant number of Common Shares at prices less than the current market price for the Common Shares. Any future issuance of equity securities will dilute the voting power of existing shareholders and reduce earnings per share, if any. In addition, additional sales of equity securities may decrease the price of our shares or result in a change of control. We may lose our foreign private issuer status in the future, which could result in significant additional costs and expenses. We are a foreign private issuer under applicable U.S. federal securities laws and, therefore, are not required to comply with all the periodic disclosure and current reporting requirements of the U.S. Exchange Act. As a result, we do not file the same reports that a U.S. domestic issuer files with the SEC, although we are required to file with or furnish to the SEC the continuous disclosure documents that we are required to file in Canada under Canadian securities laws. Further, our officers, directors, and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and “short swing” profit recovery rules of Section 16 of the U.S. Exchange Act. In addition, as a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from the proxy rules under the U.S. Exchange Act. We may in the future lose our foreign private issuer status if a majority of our outstanding Common Shares are held in the United States and we fail to meet any of the additional requirements necessary to avoid loss of foreign private issuer status. If we lose our status as a foreign private issuer the aforementioned regulations would apply and we would also be required to commence reporting on forms required of U.S. companies, such as Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, which are more detailed and extensive than the forms available to a foreign private issuer. The regulatory and compliance costs under U.S. federal securities laws as a U.S. domestic issuer may be significantly more than the costs incurred as a Canadian foreign private issuer eligible to use the multi-jurisdictional disclosure system implemented by the SEC and the securities regulatory authorities in Canada (“MJDS”), and would require our management to devote substantial time and resources to comply with the new regulatory requirements following a loss of our foreign private issuer status. We currently do not meet the “public float” dollar requirement to utilize the MJDS for our SEC filings. Further, to the extent that we were to offer or sell our securities outside of the United States, we would have to comply with the more restrictive Regulation S requirements that apply to U.S. companies, and would no longer be able to utilize the MJDS forms for registered offerings by Canadian companies in the United States, which could limit our ability to access the capital markets in the future. In addition, we may lose the ability to rely upon certain exemptions from corporate governance requirements that are available to foreign private issuers. We may regain the foreign private issuer status upon re-meeting the eligibility requirements. 15 We are likely a passive foreign investment company, which would subject our U.S. holders to adverse U. S. tax rules. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for any taxable year in which either: (i) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the average quarterly value of our assets for the taxable year produce or are held for the production of passive income. We believe that we were a passive foreign investment company for the taxable year ended December 31, 2014 and expect to be a passive foreign investment company for the taxable year ending December 31, 2015. As a result, a United States holder of Common Shares will generally be subject to an interest charge and tax at the highest ordinary rate on some of the proceeds of a sale or other disposition of the United States holder’s Common Shares or upon the receipt of “excess distribution,” unless the holder elects to be taxed annually on our income or any increase in the price of the Common Shares. The PFIC rules are complex. U.S. holders should consult with their tax advisors as to the application of these rules to them. See Item 10E “Taxation – United States Federal Income Taxation – Passive Foreign Investment Companies.” Our Common Shares are subject to maintaining NYSE MKT requirements which could affect the continued listing. Failure to meet the applicable maintenance requirements of the NYSE MKT could result in our Common Shares being delisted from the NYSE MKT. For continued listing, the NYSE MKT requires, among other things, an issuer which has continuing losses from operations to maintain certain levels of shareholders equity, subject to other tests involving market capitalization, assets and shareholdings. We are seeking additional equity capital to fulfill the NYSE MKT requirements. The NYSE MKT may allow an issuer up to 18 months to regain compliance with its maintenance requirements. In the event we are delisted from the NYSE MKT, the Common Shares may be eligible for trading on the over-the-counter market. However, the over-the-counter market will likely be less liquid and more price volatile than the NYSE MKT, possibly resulting in lower prices that could impair future financings. Readers are cautioned that the foregoing list of risks, uncertainties and other factors is not exhaustive. 16 