ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Shell Chemicals provides significant operating and other services under agreements that are important to our business. The failure of Shell Chemicals to perform its obligations, or the termination of these agreements, could adversely affect our operations. Prior to February 28, 2001, we were operated by Shell Chemicals, a unit of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group. Despite our separation from Shell Chemicals, Shell Chemicals provides services that are important to our business. Although most of our interim arrangements have terminated, we continue to be a party to: • Operating agreements pursuant to which Shell Chemicals operates and maintains our European manufacturing facilities and employs and provides almost all of the staff for those facilities; • Site services, utilities, materials and facilities agreements pursuant to which Shell Chemicals provides utilities and site services to our European manufacturing facilities and research and development facilities; and • Lease agreements pursuant to which we lease our European manufacturing facilities and some of our research and development facilities from Shell Chemicals. In addition, we are required to indemnify Shell Chemicals under certain of these agreements, including in certain circumstances for loss and damages resulting from Shell Chemicals’ negligence in performing its obligations. Pursuant to their terms, either party is permitted to terminate the agreements in a variety of situations. Should Shell Chemicals fail to provide these services or should any operating agreement be terminated, we would be forced to obtain these services from third parties or to provide them ourselves. The failure of Shell Chemicals to perform its obligations or the termination of any of these contracts could adversely affect our operations and, depending on market conditions at the time of any termination, we may not be able to enter into substitute arrangements in a timely manner, or on terms as favorable to us. We obtain a significant amount of our styrene, butadiene and isoprene requirements in the United States and Europe from Shell Chemicals. Our manufacturing processes use three primary raw materials: styrene, butadiene and isoprene. We use styrene in the production of almost all KRATON polymer products. We use butadiene in the production of SBS (styrene: butadiene: styrene) grades of KRATON D and SEBS (styrene: ethylene: butylene: styrene) grades of KRATON G. We use isoprene in the production of SIS (styrene: isoprene: styrene) grades of KRATON D, SEPS (styrene: ethylene: propylene: styrene) grades of KRATON G and isoprene rubber (KRATON IR). We have entered into long-term raw material supply agreements with Shell Chemicals to provide our European manufacturing facilities with the majority of their styrene, butadiene and isoprene requirements. The 16 Table of Contents terms of the U.S. styrene and butadiene agreements expire on June 30, 2006 and April 15, 2006, respectively, due to Shell Chemicals’ prior written notification of termination. The initial term of the European styrene agreement expires on February 28, 2006 and the initial term of the agreement providing butadiene to our Berre, France facility will terminate on December 31, 2007. These agreements are renewed automatically unless terminated with twelve and twenty-four months notice, respectively. We gave Shell Chemicals notification of termination such that the European styrene agreement expires on February 28, 2007. We are currently discussing terms for new long-term supply contracts for our styrene and butadiene requirements with potential suppliers. The initial term of the agreement providing butadiene to our Wesseling, Germany facility expires December 31, 2040 and is renewed automatically unless terminated with sixty months’ prior written notice by either party. The agreements providing isoprene to our Belpre, Ohio facility and to our Pernis, The Netherlands facility expire on December 31, 2009 and are renewed automatically unless twelve to twenty-four months prior written notice of termination is given. We understand that Shell Chemicals is considering the closure of its isoprene unit in Pernis, the Netherlands, which we expect would cause Shell Chemicals to not renew its agreement to provide isoprene to our Pernis facility. Shell has also indicated an interest in terminating the contract prior to December 31, 2009 date. KRATON is in the process of reviewing the strategic and economic options for our Pernis assets. We have not received a notice of termination as of the date of this report. Isoprene is primarily produced and consumed captively for the production of isoprene rubber, which is primarily used in the manufacture of rubber tires. As a result, there is limited non-captive isoprene produced in the market in which we operate and the market. Upon termination on December 31, 2009 or such earlier date as we may agree with Shell Chemicals, we may not be able to obtain the isoprene required for our operations at our Pernis facility on terms favorable to us or at all. Our inability to obtain isoprene may require us to reduce or end production at our Pernis facility, which is the only facility where we currently produce KRATON IR products. We are currently exploring plans to address this limitation. As contracts expire, we cannot give assurance that we will obtain new long-term supply agreements, or that the terms of any such agreements will be on terms favorable to us. The failure of Shell Chemicals to perform its obligations under these agreements, our inability to replace or renew these agreements when they expire, could increase our cost for these materials, interrupt production and otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. During the first quarter of 2005, Shell Chemicals declared a force majeure at two of its facilities that affected our supply of butadiene and isoprene at our Belpre, Ohio facility and butadiene at our Berre, France facility. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Recent Developments—Supply Disruption Issues.” If we are required to obtain an alternate source for raw materials because Shell Chemicals is unwilling or unable to perform under these raw material supply agreements or if Shell Chemicals terminates the agreements, we may not be able to obtain these raw materials from alternative suppliers in a timely manner or be able to enter into long-term supply agreements on terms as favorable to us. Any failure of Shell Chemicals to perform its obligations under the existing agreements, or any further terminations of long-term supply agreements by Shell Chemicals, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position by increasing our cost for these materials or interrupting production. Increases in the costs of our raw materials could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations if those costs cannot be passed onto our customers. Our results of operations are directly affected by the cost of our raw materials. Our financial performance has been affected by significant increases in raw material feedstock prices. Our three principal raw materials (styrene, butadiene and isoprene) together represented approximately 85% of our total raw material purchases volume and approximately 46% of our total cost of goods sold in 2004. We experienced significantly higher raw material feedstock prices in 2005. Prices for these key raw materials have been volatile in recent periods and increased between 5% and 40% during 2005. Our raw material feedstock costs have been generally correlated to crude oil prices. The spot price of West Texas Intermediate crude oil increased from a yearly average of $31.11 per barrel in 2003, to $41.43 per barrel in 2004, $56.47 per barrel in 2005 and an average of $65.57 per barrel in early 2006. Our 2005 financial performance was affected by the prevailing raw material feedstock pricing environment. Our ability to offset the effect of raw material prices by increasing sales prices is uncertain. A further increase in the prices of these raw materials could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial position. Styrene, butadiene and isoprene used by our U.S. and European facilities are primarily supplied by Shell Chemicals, its affiliates or Basell, under long-term supply contracts. Prices under these contracts are typically 17 Table of Contents determined by contractual formulas that reference both Shell Chemicals’ cost of production as well as market prices. In Japan, butadiene and isoprene supplies for our joint venture plant are supplied under our joint venture agreement where our partner supplies the majority of our necessary requirements. All of our styrene and any butadiene and isoprene our partner is unable to supply in Japan is sourced from local third-party suppliers. Our facility in Paulinia, Brazil purchases all of its raw materials from local third-party suppliers. See “Business—Sources and Availability of Raw Materials.” Prices for styrene are volatile. Styrene prices are primarily driven by worldwide supply and demand, the costs of ethylene and benzene, and are also influenced by prevailing crude oil and natural gas prices. Market prices for styrene reached near historical highs at the beginning of 2003. Market prices for styrene increased throughout most of 2004, 2005 and early 2006. The significant price increase has been associated with increasing oil and benzene prices. Market prices for butadiene are also volatile. Butadiene prices reflect worldwide supply and demand, but are also influenced by prevailing crude oil and ethylene prices. Market prices for butadiene increased in the latter part of 2002 and early 2003, due to increased energy prices and tight supply conditions. We saw a slight decline in mid 2003, with flat pricing through the first quarter of 2004. However, since the second quarter of 2004, continuing throughout the remainder of 2004 and most of 2005, we experienced increasing market prices for butadiene. Prices stabilized during the fourth quarter of 2005 and into early 2006. Because there is limited non-captive isoprene available, the market for isoprene is thin and prices are volatile. Prices for isoprene are determined by the supply and prices of natural and synthetic rubber, crude oil and natural gas prices and existing supply and demand in the market. Market prices for isoprene began to rise during the fourth quarter of 2003, continued to rise throughout 2004, all of 2005 and early 2006. A significant factor contributing to higher prices is the extreme tightness in the market caused by operational problems of some key producers. Isoprene prices could continue to increase significantly, and we may not be able to source our isoprene requirements at prices acceptable to us. Fluctuations in the availability of our raw materials could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner. We believe styrene and butadiene are widely available in the world chemicals market. As discussed above, we rely on supply contracts with Shell Chemicals to provide us with the majority of our styrene and butadiene requirements in the United States and Europe. However, we do not have long-term supply contracts for raw materials in Brazil and Japan. In Brazil, we obtain our styrene and butadiene requirements from a variety of third-party sources. In Japan, we obtain our styrene requirements from a nearby Mitsubishi Chemical Company facility and most of our butadiene requirements by pipeline from adjacent extraction units of our joint venture partner, JSR Corporation, on a commercial supply basis. If we are required to find alternative suppliers for our Brazilian and Japanese facilities, we may not be able to obtain alternative sources in a timely manner, or be able to enter into arrangements on terms as favorable to us, either of which could interrupt our business or increase our cost for these materials. Isoprene is not widely available and the few isoprene producers tend to use their production themselves or sell only limited quantities into the world chemicals market. The major producers of isoprene are Goodyear, Shell Chemicals, Nippon Zeon, Braskem and various Russian manufacturers. Currently, Shell Chemicals is our major supplier of isoprene in the U.S. and Europe. In Brazil, we obtain our isoprene requirements from Braskem. In Japan, we obtain the majority of our isoprene requirements by pipeline from adjacent extraction units of JSR Corporation on a commercial supply basis and from alternative suppliers as needed. These suppliers may not be able to meet our isoprene requirements, and we may not be able to obtain substitute supplies of isoprene from alternative suppliers in a timely manner or on favorable terms. While we have historically had adequate supplies of isoprene, since the third quarter of 2004 we have experienced significant limits to our supply of isoprene due to operational problems at some key producers. The markets dynamics of extremely tight supply are continuing currently. A lack of availability of isoprene could have an adverse effect on our results of operations if we were unable to produce products containing isoprene. 18 Table of Contents If we are not able to continue the technological innovation and successful commercial introduction of new products, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The SBC industry and the end-use markets into which we sell our products experience periodic technological change and ongoing product improvements. Newly developed non-SBC products may also compete with, or serve as a substitute for, our products. Manufacturers introduce new generations of products or require new technological capacity to develop customized products. Our future growth will depend on our ability to gauge the direction of the commercial and technological progress in all key end-use markets and upon our ability to successfully develop, manufacture and market products in such changing end-use markets. We will have to continue to identify, develop and market innovative products on a timely basis to replace existing products in order to maintain our profit margins and our competitive position. In addition, our customers may introduce new generations of their own products or require new technological and increased performance specifications requiring us to develop customized products. Innovation or other changes in our customer’s product performance requirements may also adversely affect the demand for our products. Our future growth will depend on our ability to gauge the direction of the commercial and technological progress in all key end-use markets, and upon our ability to successfully develop, manufacture and market products in such changing end-use markets. We need to continue to identify, develop and market innovative products on a timely basis to replace existing products in order to maintain our profit margins and our competitive position. We may not be successful in developing new products and technology that successfully compete with such materials and our customers may not accept any of our new products. If we fail to keep pace with evolving technological innovations or fail to modify our products in response to our customers’ needs, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of reduced sales of our products. The SBC industry and our end-use markets are highly competitive, and we must remain competitive or our results of operations may be adversely affected. The SBC industry is highly competitive. We face significant competition from major international producers, as well as from smaller regional competitors. Our competitors may improve their competitive position in our core end-use markets by successfully introducing new products, improving their manufacturing processes or expanding their capacity or manufacturing facilities. If we are unable to keep pace with our competitors’ product and manufacturing process innovations, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our most significant competitors are Asahi Chemical, Dexco Polymers, Dynasol Elastomers, Kuraray, Lee Chang Yung, LG Chemical, Polimeri Europa, Sinopec, Taiwan Synthetic Rubber Corporation and Total Petrochemicals. Several of our competitors (such as Asahi Chemical, Dexco Polymers, Total Petrochemicals, Kuraray and Polimeri Europa) are well established in our industry, while other competitors (such as Lee Chung Yung) are more recent market entrants. Kuraray Company, Asahi Chemical, Dynasol Elastomers and Taiwan Synthetic Rubber Corporation have all expanded HSBC capacity over the last 3 years. Several competitors including Lee Chang Yung, LG Chemical and Sinopec have expanded USBC capacity over the last 3 years. On December 31, 2004, our non-compete agreement with Shell Chemicals expired and Shell Chemicals could now reenter the market and become one of our competitors. Competition from non-SBC products is intense and may reduce demand for our products. Competition between SBC products and non-SBC products within the end-use markets in which we compete is intense. Increased competition from existing or newly developed non-SBC products may reduce demand for our products in the future and our customers may decide to source their requirements from non-SBC products. • In the Paving and Roofing end-use market, SBC products primarily compete with atactic polypropylene, styrene butadiene rubber and unmodified asphalts. The choice between these materials is influenced by total end-product performance, cost and ease of use. • In the Adhesives, Sealants and Coatings end-use market, SBC products primarily compete with acrylics, silicones, solvent-based rubber systems and metallocene polyolefins. The choice between these materials is influenced by bond strength, specific adhesion, consistent performance to specification, processing speed, hot-melt application, resistance to water and total end-product cost. • In the Compounding Channels end-use market, SBC products compete against a wide variety of chemical and non-chemical alternatives, including thermoplastic vulcanizates, ethylene propylene diene 19 Table of Contents monomers (EPDM), metallocene polyolefins and thermoplastic polyurethanes (TPUs). The choice between these materials is influenced by performance characteristics, ease of use, desired aesthetics and total end-product cost. • In the Packaging and Films end-use market, SBC products primarily compete with PVC polymers and compounds, polyolefins, polystyrene, PET, nylon, thermoplastic vulcanizates, and polycarbonate, based on performance, ease of use, desired aesthetics and total end-product cost. • In the Personal Care end-use market, competing materials include spandex, metallocene polyolefins and natural rubber. Hazards associated with chemical manufacturing may occur, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The hazards associated with chemical manufacturing and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes may occur in our operations or the operations of other occupants with whom we share manufacturing sites. These hazards could lead to an interruption or suspension of operations and have an adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility or on us as a whole. These hazards include: • pipeline and storage tank leaks and ruptures; • explosions and fires; • inclement weather and natural disasters; • terrorist attacks; • mechanical failure; and • chemical spills and other discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases. These hazards may cause personal injury and loss of life, damage to property and contamination of the environment, which may result in a suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties, including governmental fines, expenses for remediation and claims brought by governmental entities or third parties. The loss or shutdown of operations over an extended period at any of our major operating facilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance of the types and in the amounts that we believe are customary for the industry, we are not fully insured against all potential hazards incident to our business. Compliance with extensive environmental, health and safety laws could require material expenditures, changes in our operations or site remediation. We use large quantities of hazardous substances and generate large amounts of hazardous wastes in our manufacturing operations. Consequently, our operations are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations at both the national and local level. Many of these laws and regulations become more stringent over time and the costs of compliance with these requirements may increase. In addition, our production facilities require operating permits that are subject to renewal and, in some circumstances, revocation. The necessary permits may not issue or continue in effect, and any issued permits may contain significant new requirements. The nature of the chemical industry exposes us to risks of liability due to the use, production, management, storage, transportation and sale of materials that are heavily regulated and can cause contamination or personal injury if released into the environment. Compliance with environmental laws generally increases the costs of transportation and storage of raw materials and finished products, as well as the costs of storage and disposal of wastes. We may incur substantial costs, including fines, damages, criminal or civil sanctions and remediation costs, or experience interruptions in our operations for violations arising under these laws or permit requirements. We face the risk that individuals could in the future seek damages for personal injury due to exposure to chemicals at our facilities or to chemicals otherwise owned or controlled by us. For example, plaintiffs have sued Shell Chemicals for alleged injuries arising from exposure to asbestos. We may be subject to future claims with respect to workplace exposure, workers’ compensation and other matters that are filed after the date of our acquisition of Shell Chemicals’ elastomers business. While Shell Chemicals has agreed to indemnify us for certain 20 Table of Contents claims brought with respect to matters occurring before our separation from Shell Chemicals in February 2001, those indemnity obligations are subject to limitations, and we cannot be certain that those indemnities will be sufficient to satisfy claims against us. In addition, we face the risk that future claims would fall outside of the scope of the indemnity due either to the limitations on the indemnity or to their arising from events and circumstances occurring after February 2001. As a result of our acquisition of these facilities, some environmental laws could impose on us the entire cost of cleanup of contamination present at a facility even though we did not cause the contamination. These laws often identify the site owner as one of the parties that can be jointly and severally liable for on-site remediation, regardless of fault or whether the original activity was legal at the time it occurred. For example, our Belpre, Ohio facility is the subject of a required remediation program to cleanup past contamination at the site and at an adjacent creek and we are a party to that site cleanup order. While Shell Chemicals has posted financial assurance of $5.2 million for this program and has taken the lead in implementing the program, we may incur costs and be required to take action under this program. Similarly, the Shell Chemicals indemnity for remediation at Belpre may not cover all claims that might be brought against us. Our Paulinia, Brazil facility also has on-site contamination resulting from past operations of Shell Chemicals. The indemnity from Shell Chemicals covers claims related to certain specified areas within the plant, and we may be required to undertake and pay for remediation of these and other areas. The indemnity coverage from Shell Chemicals is limited in time and amount and we cannot rely upon it to cover possible future claims for on-site contamination separate from the areas specified in the indemnity. The Paulinia facility is also adjacent to a former Shell Chemicals site where we believe past manufacturing of hydrocarbons resulted in significant contamination of soil and groundwater and required relocation of nearby residents. While we are not aware of any significant contamination at our Paulinia facility, we could potentially be the subject of claims related to pesticide contamination and effects at some point in the future. Regulatory changes applicable to us, or the products in our end-use markets, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We and many of the applications for the products in the end-use markets in which we sell our products are regulated by various national and local regulations. Changes in those regulations could result in additional compliance costs, seizures, confiscations, recall or monetary fines, any of which could prevent or inhibit the development, distribution and sale of our products. For example, changes in environmental regulations restricting the use of disposable diapers could adversely affect our financial results of operations. In addition, we benefit from certain trade protections, including anti-dumping protection. If we were to lose these protections, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We are subject to customs, international trade, antitrust, zoning and occupancy and labor and employment laws that could require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs. We are subject to numerous regulations, including customs and international trade laws, and antitrust laws that regulate manufacturers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of our products, the operation of factories and warehouse facilities and our relationship with our customers, suppliers and competitors. If these regulations were to change or were violated by our management, employees, suppliers, buying agents or trading companies, the costs of certain goods could increase, or we could experience delays in shipments of our goods, be subject to fines or penalties, or suffer reputational harm, which could reduce demand for our products and hurt our business and results of operations. In addition, changes in federal and state minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could hurt our profitability. Legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. We may be required to make significant expenditures or modify our business practices to comply with existing or future laws and regulations, which may increase our costs and materially limit our ability to operate our business. We may not have appropriate procedures in place to eliminate financial reporting inaccuracies or delays. During the preparation of our interim financial statements for the period ended March 31, 2005, we discovered a computational error in the calculation of the additional cost of sales related to the inventory step up associated with the Acquisition. As a result of this error, we restated our December 31, 2004 financial statements. We concluded that this error represented a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting. As a result of several initiatives that we undertook during the second half of 2005 to improve our controls over financial reporting, management believes we no longer have the material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting. In connection with our outside independent auditors audit of our financial statements as of December 31, 2005, they have communicated two items that constitute “significant deficiencies” in our internal controls over financial reporting. Our management has concluded neither of these significant deficiencies individually, or when taken in combination with other significant deficiencies constitutes a material weakness. 21 Table of Contents Management has reviewed certain of our internal controls over financial reporting to determine the appropriate level of additional procedures and resources for the financial reporting function. We are currently conducting a search for additional financial reporting staff, including a new controller, a new director of tax and a new director of internal audit. We are also implementing new procedures in order to remediate these deficiencies and to augment the improvements that we made in 2005 to our accounting, financial reporting and information systems, including increasing oversight over our foreign operations. We cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any weaknesses could result in errors in our financial statements, including errors that would require us to restate our financial statements for prior periods, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in the prices for our securities. Our business relies on intellectual property and other proprietary information. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to protect and preserve our intellectual property and other proprietary information of our business. However, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property and other proprietary information without our authorization or independently developing intellectual property and other proprietary information that is similar to ours, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our proprietary rights to the same degree as in the United States. The use of our intellectual property and other proprietary information by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed, cause us to lose sales or otherwise harm our business. If it becomes necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect these rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail. In addition, we acquired a significant number of patents in our patent portfolio from Shell Chemicals. Pursuant to our agreements with Shell Chemicals relating to our ownership of these patents, Shell Chemicals retained for itself fully-transferable and exclusive licenses to their use outside of the elastomers business, as well as fully-transferable non-exclusive licenses within the field of elastomers for certain limited uses in non-competing activities. Shell Chemicals is permitted to sublicense these rights. Shell Chemicals also retains the right to enforce these patents outside the elastomers field and recover any damages resulting from these actions. Any patents, issued or applied for, may not provide us with any competitive advantage and may be challenged by third parties. Moreover, our competitors may already have applied for patents that, once issued, will prevail over our patent rights or otherwise limit our ability to sell our products in the United States or abroad. Our competitors also may attempt to design around our patents or copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property and other proprietary information. With respect to our pending patent applications, we may not be successful in securing patents for these claims. Our failure to secure these patents may limit our ability to protect the intellectual property rights that these applications were intended to cover. In addition, the expiration of a patent can result in increased competition with consequent erosion of profit margins. It is our policy to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our unpatented proprietary manufacturing expertise, continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets, but our confidentiality agreements could be breached or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or proprietary manufacturing expertise, and adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. Violations by others of our confidentiality 22 Table of Contents agreements and the loss of employees who have specialized knowledge and expertise could harm our competitive position and cause our sales and operating results to decline as a result of increased competition. In addition, others may obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or other access by legal means. We have registered and applied for certain service marks and trademarks, and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional service marks and trademarks, as appropriate. The applicable governmental authorities may not approve our pending applications. Moreover, even if the applications are approved, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge these registrations. A failure to obtain trademark registrations in the United States and in other countries could limit our ability to obtain and retain our trademarks and impede our marketing efforts in those jurisdictions. The failure of our patents, trademarks or confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary information, including our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets, trade names and proprietary manufacturing expertise, methods and compounds, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to incur unexpected costs or prevent us from selling our products. We continually seek to improve our business processes and develop new products and applications. Many of our competitors have a substantial amount of intellectual property that we must continually monitor to avoid infringement. Although it is our policy and intention not to infringe valid patents, we cannot be certain that our processes and products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. For example, our products or our technology may unintentionally be subject to filed patent applications by third parties that cover our products or technology. If patents are subsequently issued on these applications, or if patents that cover our products or technology are already in existence, we may be liable for infringement. We may also be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us or our licensees in connection with their use of our products. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert our management’s attention from operating our business. If we were to discover that our processes or products infringe the valid intellectual property rights of others, we might need to obtain licenses from these parties or substantially reengineer our products in order to avoid infringement. We may not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to reengineer our products successfully. Moreover, if we are sued for infringement and lose the suit, we could be required to pay substantial damages and/or be enjoined from using or selling the infringing products or technology. Any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products. We may be liable for damages based on product liability claims brought against our customers in our end-use markets. Many of our products provide critical performance attributes to our customers’ products that are sold to consumers who could potentially bring product liability suits in which we could be named as a defendant. The sale of these products involves the risk of product liability claims. If a person were to bring a product liability suit against one of our customers, this customer may attempt to seek contribution from us. A person may also bring a product liability claim directly against us. A successful product liability claim or series of claims against us in excess of our insurance coverage for payments, for which we are not otherwise indemnified, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Regulation of our employees’ exposure to butadiene could require material expenditures or changes in our operations. Butadiene is a known carcinogen in laboratory animals at high doses and is being studied for its potential adverse health effects. Effective February 1997, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration substantially lowered the permissible employee exposure limit for butadiene. Future studies on the health effects of butadiene may result in additional regulations or new regulation in Europe that further restrict or prohibit the use of, and exposure to, butadiene. Additional regulation of butadiene could require us to change our operations, and these changes could affect the quality of our products and materially increase our costs. Our relationship with our employees could deteriorate, which could adversely impact our operations. As a manufacturing company, we rely on our employees and good relations with our employees to produce 23 Table of Contents our products and maintain our production processes and productivity. As of December 31, 2005, we employed approximately 890 full-time employees. A significant number of our non-U.S. employees are subject to arrangements similar to collective bargaining arrangements. With respect to these employees, we may not be able to negotiate labor agreements on satisfactory terms and actions by our employees may disrupt our business. If these workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, our operations could be disrupted or we could experience higher labor costs. In addition, if our other employees were to become unionized, in particular our employees at our Belpre, Ohio facility, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and higher ongoing labor costs, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition and results of operations. Because many of the personnel who operate our European facilities are employees of Shell Chemicals or Basell, relations between Shell Chemicals and its employees or Basell and its employees may also adversely affect our business and financial condition and results of operations. See “Business—Employees.” Loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could hurt our business and inhibit our ability to operate and grow successfully. Our success in the highly competitive markets in which we operate will continue to depend to a significant extent on our employees. We have recently experienced several changes in key employees and added new members to our team. We may not be able to retain our key employees or to recruit qualified individuals to join our company. The loss of any key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. As a global business, we are exposed to local business risks in different countries, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We have significant operations in foreign countries, including manufacturing facilities, research and development facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations. Currently, we operate, or others operate on our behalf, facilities in Belgium, Brazil, Germany, The Netherlands, France and Japan, in addition to those in the United States. Our offshore operations are subject to risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries, including: • new and different legal and regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions; • export duties or import quotas; • domestic and foreign customs and tariffs or other trade barriers; • potential staffing difficulties and labor disputes; • managing and obtaining support and distribution for local operations; • increased costs of transportation or shipping; • credit risk and financial conditions of local customers and distributors; • potential difficulties in protecting intellectual property; • risk of nationalization of private enterprises by foreign governments; • potential imposition of restrictions on investments; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; • foreign exchange restrictions and fluctuations; and • local political and social conditions, including the possibility of hyperinflationary conditions and political instability in certain countries. We may not be successful in developing and implementing policies and strategies to address the foregoing factors in a timely and effective manner at each location where we do business. Consequently, the occurrence of one or more of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations or upon our financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly impact our results of operations and may significantly affect the comparability of our results between financial periods. Our operations are conducted by subsidiaries in many countries. The results of the operations and the financial position of these subsidiaries are reported in the relevant foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our combined financial statements. The main currencies to which we are exposed, besides the U.S. dollar, are the Euro, Japanese Yen and Brazilian Real. The exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. A depreciation of these currencies against the U.S. dollar will decrease the U.S. dollar equivalent of the amounts derived from these operations reported in our consolidated financial statements and an appreciation of these currencies will result in a corresponding increase in such amounts. Because many of our raw material costs are determined with respect to the U.S. dollar rather than these currencies, depreciation of these currencies may have an adverse effect on our profit margins or our reported results of operations. In addition, currency fluctuations may affect the comparability of our results of operations between financial periods. We incur currency transaction risk whenever we enter into either a purchase or sale transaction using a currency other than the local currency of the transacting entity. Historically, we have not undertaken hedging strategies to minimize the effect of currency fluctuations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations.” Given the volatility of exchange rates, there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively manage our currency transaction risks or that any volatility in currency exchange rates will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Downturns in general economic conditions could adversely affect our profitability. Our products are sold in markets that are sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, such as automotive and construction products. Downturns in general economic conditions can cause fluctuations in demand for our products, product prices, volumes and margins. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations.” Future economic conditions may not be favorable to our industry. A decline in the demand for our products or a shift to lower-margin products due to deteriorating economic conditions could adversely affect sales of our products and our profitability and could also result in impairments of certain of our assets. An economic downturn in one or more of the geographic regions in which we sell our products may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We do not have long-term contracts with our customers and the loss of customers could adversely affect our sales and profitability. With some specific exceptions, our business is based primarily upon individual sales orders with our customers. As such, our customers could cease buying our products from us at any time, for any reason, with little or no recourse. Since our top 10 customers represent less than 30% of our total revenues, if multiple customers elected not to purchase products from KRATON, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to protect against potential losses. We maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance which we believe is in accordance with customary industry practices, but we cannot be fully insured against all potential losses, including losses resulting from war risks or terrorist acts. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become available only for reduced amounts of coverage. In addition, there can be no assurance that our insurers would not challenge coverage for certain claims. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured or that our insurers disputed, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 