risk factors disclosed in Item 3D of this Transition Report. All forward-looking statements included herein attributable to us or other parties or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Except to the extent required by applicable laws and regulations, we undertake no obligations to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Transition Report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. PART I ITEM 1. IDENTITY OF DIRECTORS, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND ADVISORS Not Applicable. 5 ITEM 2. OFFER STATISTICS AND EXPECTED TIMETABLE Not Applicable. ITEM 3. KEY INFORMATION A. Selected financial data. The following selected consolidated financial information has been derived from our consolidated financial statements. The following information should be read in conjunction with those statements and Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” The summary consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income data of the Company for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and the nine months ended September 30, 2005 (un-audited) and nine months ended September 30, 2006 and the summary consolidated balance sheet data of the Company as of December 31, 2005 and September 30, 2006, as set forth below are derived from, and are qualified in their entirety by reference to, the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company, including the notes thereto, which are included in this Transition Report. The summary statement of operations and comprehensive income data for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2003, and the summary balance sheet data as of December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004 set forth below are derived from audited consolidated financial statements of the Company not included herein. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or U.S. GAAP. For the year ended December 31, For the nine months ended September 30, (in thousands, except share data) 2002 2003 2004 2005 2005 2006 RMB RMB RMB RMB RMB RMB US$(1) Consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income data: Net revenues 98,717 191,645 301,520 207,291 208,380 522,999 66,169 Cost of revenues (46,006 ) (118,977 ) (178,313 ) (129,162 ) (126,418 ) (358,804 ) (45,395 ) Gross profit 52,711 72,668 123,207 78,129 81,962 164,195 20,774 Selling and marketing (6,480 ) (13,310 ) (20,390 ) (27,037 ) (18,993 ) (49,651 ) (6,282 ) General and administrative (9,642 ) (18,948 ) (24,149 ) (28,983 ) (19,712 ) (45,111 ) (5,707 ) Research and development (5,372 ) (5,288 ) (6,774 ) (6,977 ) (5,963 ) (13,144 ) (1,663 ) Total operating expenses (21,494 ) (37,546 ) (51,313 ) (62,997 ) (44,668 ) (107,906 ) (13,652 ) Other operating income - - - 2,309 - - - Income from operations 31,217 35,122 71,894 17,441 37,294 56,289 7,122 Interest income 440 845 371 886 421 8,783 1,111 Interest expenses (417 ) (483 ) (831 ) (1,829 ) (1,443 ) (5,005 ) (633 ) Other income (expense) (606 ) 1,137 149 300 62 2,893 366 Equity in earnings of associated company - - 1,925 879 305 12,828 1,623 Income before income taxes 30,634 36,621 73,508 17,677 36,639 75,788 9,589 Income tax (1,498 ) (7,808 ) (7,698 ) (1,405 ) (1,205 ) (367 ) (46 ) Income before minority interests 29,136 28,813 65,810 16,272 35,434 75,421 9,543 Minority interests (2,575 ) 138 (351 ) 137 (510 ) 910 115 Net income 26,561 28,951 65,459 16,409 34,924 76,331 9,658 - - - - - - Income attributable to ordinary shareholders 26,561 28,951 65,459 16,409 34,924 76,331 9,658 Net income per share: Basic - 2.90 6.55 1.52 3.49 3.25 0.41 Diluted - 2.90 6.55 1.46 3.49 3.03 0.38 Shares used in computation: Basic - 10,000,000 10,000,000 10,786,719 10,000,000 23,472,910 23,472,910 Diluted - 10,000,000 10,000,000 11,220,157 10,000,000 25,187,753 25,187,753 6 December 31, September 30, (in thousands) 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 RMB RMB RMB RMB RMB US$ Consolidated balance sheet data: Cash and cash equivalents 78,698 49,221 68,848 237,828 140,953 17,833 Current working capital(2) 12,782 10,186 51,897 149,610 208,809 26,421 Total assets 257,388 307,257 416,384 798,769 984,126 124,508 Deferred revenue 74,764 65,296 37,921 181,583 24,101 3,049 Total current liabilities 205,158 227,768 273,002 499,616 509,631 64,474 Total liabilities 208,031 230,640 275,874 504,368 512,511 64,839 Minority interests 3,271 3,184 3,534 3,234 13,049 1,651 Total shareholders’ equity 46,086 73,433 136,976 291,167 458,566 58,018 (1) Translations of RMB amounts for nine months ended September 30, 2006 into U.S. dollars were made at a rate of RMB7.904 to US$1.00, the noon buying rate in New York City for cable transfers as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on September 29, 2006. (2) Current working capital is the difference between total current assets and total current liabilities. Exchange Rate Information The conversion of Renminbi into U.S. dollars in this Transition Report is based on the noon buying rate in The City of New York for cable transfers of Renminbi as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Unless otherwise noted, for years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005 and the nine months ended September 30, 2005 and 2006, all translations from Renminbi to U.S. dollars in this Transition Report were made at RMB8.2765, RMB 8.0702, RMB 8.092 and RMB 7.904 per $1.00, respectively, which were the prevailing year or period end rates for those two years and two nine month periods. The prevailing rate on January 31, 2007 was $1.00 to RMB 7.7714. We make no representation that any Renminbi or U.S. dollar amounts could have been, or could be, converted into U.S. dollars or Renminbi, as the case may be, at any particular rate, the rates stated below, or at all. The PRC government imposes controls over its foreign currency reserves in part through direct regulation of the conversion of Renminbi into foreign exchange and through restrictions on foreign trade. The following table sets forth various information concerning exchange rates between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar for the periods indicated. These rates are provided solely for your convenience and are not necessarily the exchange rates that we used in this Transition Report or will use in the preparation of our periodic reports or any other information to be provided to you. The source of these rates is the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Average(1) High Low Period-end (RMB per .$1.00) 2001 8.2770 8.2786 8.2676 8.2766 2002 8.2770 8.2800 8.2669 8.2800 2003 8.2770 8.2800 8.2772 8.2769 2004 8.2770 8.2773 8.2765 8.2765 2005 8.1826 8.2765 8.0702 8.0702 Nine months ended Setepmber 30, 2005 8.2297 8.2765 8.0871 8.0920 Nine months ended Setepmber 30, 2006 8.0083 8.0702 7.8965 7.9040 2006 7.9605 8.0702 7.8041 7.8350 2006 August 7.9722 8.0000 7.9615 7.9538 September 7.9334 7.9545 7.9019 7.9040 October 7.9018 7.9168 7.8728 7.8785 November 7.8622 7.8750 7.8303 7.8340 December 7.8219 7.8350 7.8041 7.8041 2007 January 7.7876 7.8127 7.7705 7.7714 (1) Annual averages are calculated from month-end rates. Monthly averages are calculated using the average of the daily rates during the relevant period. 7 B. Capitalization and indebtedness. Not Applicable. C. Reasons for the offer and use of proceeds. Not Applicable. D. Risk factors. Risks relating to our business If we do not manage our growth successfully, our growth and chances for sustained profitability may be hindered or impeded. We have expanded our operations rapidly during the last several years, and we plan to further our expansion efforts with new seed products and increased and enhanced distribution channels. This expansion has created significant demands on our corporate administrative, operational and financial personnel and other human resources and our need for working capital. Additional expansion in existing or new markets and new lines of business could strain these resources and increase our further need for capital, which may result in cash flow shortages. Our current resources may not be adequate to support further expansion. We have a limited operating history and are subject to the risks of any new enterprise, any one of which could limit growth and product and market development. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to predict how our businesses will develop. Accordingly, we face all of the risks and uncertainties encountered by early stage companies, such as: · uncertain market acceptance for our product extensions and our services; · the evolving nature of the crop seed industry in the PRC, where significant consolidation is likely to occur, leading to the formation of companies which are better able to compete with us than is currently the case; and · changing competitive conditions, technological changes or evolving customer preferences could harm sales of our products or services. If we are not able to meet the challenge of building our businesses and managing our growth, the likely result will be slowed growth, lower margins, additional operational costs and lower income. The profitability of our businesses will decrease if we do not continue to find and market products considered valuable by Chinese farmers. The profitability of our seed business depends on recurring and sustained reorders. Reorder rates are inherently uncertain due to several factors, many of which are outside our control. These include changing customer preferences, competitive price pressures, failure to develop acceptable new products, development of higher quality products by competitors and general economic conditions. 8 We are currently dependent on licensed seed products for the majority of our revenues, and if we lose the right to produce and sell licensed seeds, we will lose substantial revenues and suffer substantial losses. The revenue related to licensed hybrid seeds for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, and for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 and 2006 was $35,933,245, $24,314,206, $24,200,761 and $58,572,673, respectively. Licensed hybrid seeds accounted for 98.97% of the total seed revenue for 2004, 93.97% of the total seed revenue for 2005, and 93.98% and 88.52% of the total seed revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 and 2006, respectively. There were no revenues related to internally developed proprietary hybrid seeds for 2002 and 2003. The amount of revenue related to internally developed proprietary hybrid seeds in 2004 was $375,929, which accounted for 1.03% of the total 2004 seed revenue, while the amount of revenue related to proprietary hybrid seeds in 2005 was $1,558,883, which accounted for 6.03% of the total 2005 seed revenue. As for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 and 2006, the amount of revenue related to proprietary hybrid seeds was $1,550,622 and $7,596,282, which accounted for 6.02% and 11.48 % of the total seed revenue in each respective period. We sell a majority of seeds developed and produced under our license agreements with the Corn Research Institute Li County, Hebei Province (now Shijiazhuang Liyu Technology Development Co., Ltd.) and the Henan Agricultural University, representing respectively 58.64% and 13.2% of sales for 2004, 49.79% and 16.42% of sales for 2005, 49.72% and 16.39% of sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2005, and 28.31 % and 5.71 % of the sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2006. Our licensed rice seeds represents 5.31 % of sales in the nine months ended September 30, 2006. If we are not able to develop and produce the licensed seed products or if the current license agreements are terminated, we will suffer a substantial loss of revenue and will suffer substantial business losses. Our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We or our licensors may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us or our licensors, may materially disrupt our business. We cannot be certain that our licensed or self-developed proprietary seed products do not or will not infringe upon intellectual property rights held by third parties. We or any of our licensors may become subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others. If we or our licensors are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be required to pay damages and be enjoined from using such intellectual property, and we may incur new or additional licensing fees if we wish to continue using the infringing products, or be forced to develop or license alternatives. In addition, we may incur substantial expenses in defending against these third party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Due to our size and limited operating history, we substantially depend on a few key personnel who, if not retained, could cause declines in productivity and profitability and loss of strategic guidance, all of which would diminish the prospects of the company and value to investors. Due to our size and limited operating history, our success depends to a large extent upon the continued service of a few executive officers and key employees, including: · Dr. Gengchen Han; · Yasheng Yang; and · Liang Yuan. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could have an adverse effect on us and our PRC Operating Companies, as each of these individuals played and continues to play a significant role in developing and executing our overall business plan and maintaining customer relationships and proprietary technology systems. While none of these key personnel is irreplaceable, the loss of the services of any of these individuals would be disruptive to our business. We believe that our overall future success depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial and marketing personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel on terms acceptable to them. Inadequate personnel will limit our growth, and will be seen as a detriment to our prospects, leading potentially to a loss in value for investors. 9 If we do not comply with applicable government regulations, we may be prohibited from continuing some or all of our operations, resulting in a reduction of growth and ultimately market share due to loss of competitive position. Our revenue depends on receiving approval from the PRC government to market new seed hybrids that we are developing and will develop. In addition, there may be circumstances under which the approvals granted are subject to change without substantial advance notice, and it is possible that we could fail to obtain the approvals that we require to expand our business as we intend to do. The failure to obtain or to maintain such approvals would limit the number and quality of products that we would be able to offer. This reduction in product offerings would cause a reduction in the growth previously experienced and over time would result in loss of market share from the competitive pressures of seeds developed by others that would likely be better than our products. Our single business line of crop seed development and production does not permit us to spread our business risks among different business segments, and thus a disruption in our seed production or the industry would hurt the company more immediately and directly. We operate mainly in the crop seed business. Without business line diversity, we will not be able to spread the risk of our operations. Therefore, our business opportunities, revenues and income could be more immediately and directly affected by disruptions from such things as drought and disease or widespread problems affecting the industry, such as the absence of farmer credit and payment disruptions and customer rejection of modified crop seeds. If there is a disruption as described above, our revenues and income will be reduced, and our business operations may have to be scaled back. If we fail to introduce and commercialize new seed varieties, we will not be able to recover research, development and other costs associated with such costs, and , our future sales will be adversely affected. We cannot guarantee that the performance of our new seed varieties, licensed or proprietary, will meet our expectations, or that we will be able to introduce and commercialize specific seed varieties. Farmers generally need time to learn about new seed varieties. Their traditional planting experience may also make it difficult for them to adapt to the new varieties. The process for new products to gain market recognition and acceptance is long and has some uncertainties. If we fail to introduce and commercialize a new seed variety, we will not be able recover research, development and other costs associated with such new seed variety, and our sales will be adversely affected. Natural disasters could damage seed production, in which event we will suffer a loss of production and will suffer consequential losses of revenues, market disruption and reputation loss, and there is no agriculture insurance in the PRC to cover the loss of seed crops. We produce our seeds using a network of approximately 100,000 farmers, who plant the crops and harvest the seeds for use as crop seeds for the next growing season. As a result, the source of supply for our seeds is subject to all of the risks associated with any agricultural enterprise, including widespread drought, pestilence, plant diseases and insect pests or other natural disasters. While the use of such a large number of farmers provides some protection against a widespread failure of any particular crop, the majority of our seed production farmers are located in the three provinces, making them subject to risks that are somewhat local in nature. We have attempted to manage this risk by obligating ourselves to pay the farmers who produce our seeds only for the quantity of seeds that they produce, thus limiting our expenses somewhat. We have also set up a storage system since 2003 attempting to manage this risk. However, in the event of a widespread failure of the seed crop, we would likely sustain substantial operating losses, due to both the fact that a significant portion of our expenses are fixed overhead and that the loss of a large portion of a seed crop would limit our revenues significantly. Although insurance to protect against such a risk is available in many jurisdictions, such insurance is not available in the PRC. We may be exposed to product quality claims, which may cause us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us , may cause us to pay significant damage awards. The performance of our seeds depends on climate, geographical areas, cultivation method, farmers’ degree of knowledge and other factors in addition to genetic traits and the quality of our seeds. Natural disasters may also affect the performance of our seeds, particularly when farmers lack timely and effective measures in response to those disasters. Furthermore, the cultivability of some farm land is deteriorating by toxic and hazardous materials due to farmers’ overuse of herbicide. All this results in underproduction. However, farmers generally attribute underproduction to seed quality. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to our seed quality. The defense of these proceedings and claims can be both costly and time-consuming and may significantly divert efforts and resources of our management personnel. An adverse determination in any such proceedings could subject us to significant liability and damage our market reputation and prevent us from achieving increased sales and market share. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase of our products. 10 We rely on our network of approximately 100,000 farmers for production of our seeds, and although our relationship with those farmers has been stable in the past, there are no assurances that those relationships will remain stable in the future, the result of which could limit the amount of seed products available to us for sale to customers and threaten customer loyalty. We believe we maintain a favorable relationship with the farmers in our seed production network. In addition, the fact that we rely on a large number of farmers to produce crop seeds means that no one or even several of them can, acting independently, adversely and materially affect our business. However, events such as a shift in pricing caused by an increase in the value of food crops other than seed crops, increase in land prices or competition could disrupt the chain of supply. Any of these disruptions could limit the supply of seeds that we obtain, adversely affecting supply and thereby lowering revenues. Such disruption could also damage distributor relationships and farmer loyalty if we cannot supply the quantity of seed expected by them. Crop seed prices and sales volumes may decrease in any given year with a corresponding reduction in sales, margins and profitability. During most of our limited operating history, the crop seed market has been stable in the PRC, but in the past it was marked by periods of instability. In the future there may be periods of instability during which commodity prices and sales volume might fluctuate greatly. Commodities can be affected by general economic conditions, weather, disease and aspects of demand such as financing, competition and trade restrictions. Although we have followed a branded product strategy to differentiate our products from those of other crop seed producers, the crop seed market continues to behave as a commodity market. As a result, the price that we are able to demand for our seeds is somewhat dependent on the size of the supply of our seeds and the seeds of other producers. Therefore, the potential exists for fluctuation in supply, and consequently in price, in our own markets, even in the absence of significant external events that might cause volatility. As a result, the amount of revenue that we receive in any given year is subject to change. Because decisions are made regarding the level of production prior to the time that the volume of orders and the market price for those orders is known, it is possible that we will have too much or not enough product available, each with the attendant impact on revenues, margins and profitability. Our revenues depend on the ability of a large number of small farmers to buy seed for cash because financing for purchases of this size and type is not available; therefore, if a substantial number of our customers become unable to pay for seed, our sales, revenues and profitability will decline. We have a large and diversified customer base, with no single customer representing more than 1% of our revenues. The large customer base provides some protection against a loss of revenues due to the inability of a significant number of our customers to pay for seed that has been previously ordered. However, the unavailability of credit for farmers in the PRC reduces the ability of those farmers to withstand the effects of difficult economic times. The lack of credit could prevent them from fulfilling their purchasing commitments with the result that our revenues and profitability would be reduced. Competition, both domestic and foreign, may slow or reverse our recent rapid growth, which could result in a decrease in margins and cause an operating loss. Competition may develop from consolidation or other market forces within the Chinese seed industry and privatization of seed producers that are extensions of county governments. As a result of this privatization, a number of companies will need to develop using more efficient business models in order to survive. As a result, margins may be compressed in the short term. Though we continue to believe we will grab additional market share as a result of some local companies’ lack of ability to efficiently develop, market forces are not entirely in the control of us and lower margins may be prolonged. 11 The reform and restructuring of local agricultural administrative offices and state-owned seed enterprises may adversely affect our future business. According to a document published by General Office of the State Council of the PRC in May, 2006, the agricultural administrative offices of local government shall stop engaging in seed production and distribution business by the end of June, 2007. On the other hand, state-owned seed enterprises shall not co-mingle with those administrative offices. The reform and restructuring of state-owned seed enterprises will likely lead to reallocation of the seed market share, and our competitors may increase their market share by participating in the restructuring of the state-owned seed companies. Technological change in creating seed hybrids could adversely affect our business, causing a loss in business opportunities, market share and revenues. We currently rely upon traditional methods of creating crop seed hybrids to develop new products. While these methods are highly effective, there has been an increase in the development of genetically modified agricultural products to increase the quality and quantity of crop yields. This new genetic technology is controversial, and it has not been widely accepted in many regions of the world, including the PRC. However, as the ability to use genetic modification to produce seeds that are superior to or less costly than those that we produce by traditional methods increases, the threat of competition from this source becomes more realistic. A number of factors that are difficult to predict, such as a shift among farmer and consumer attitudes making these kinds of products more or less acceptable, affect the extent to which this potential threat could affect our business prospects. We are taking steps to respond to the competition risk presented by genetically modified agricultural products. We have commenced our own research and development efforts for genetically modified seeds, and we have entered into agreements with the Chinese Academy of Science, the China Agricultural Academy of Science and Peking University in the PRC working on genetic modifications that give us the right to market the seeds they develop. However, there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful in producing improved seed varieties that are able to compete with those produced by other genetically-modified seed producers. If we do not comply with PRC regulations, we may not be able to operate our business or we may be fined, adversely affecting our business, operations and revenues. The PRC has many regulations relating to the seed business, including obtaining and maintaining operating licenses. Seed products must be licensed and undergo a stringent review process before they may be sold in the PRC. We believe we currently have all the necessary licenses, and that we are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. If we are not in compliance then we may be fined or lose the ability to sell a particular seed or operate our business altogether. If the fines are substantial or the ability to sell or operate is withdrawn, this will result in additional costs or the loss of revenues and perhaps our ability to continue as a business. We may become a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. Depending upon the value of our shares and the composition of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, by the United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we were classified as a PFIC in any taxable year in which you hold our shares and you are a U.S. investor, you would generally be taxed at higher ordinary income rates, rather than lower capital gain rates, when you dispose of those shares at a gain in a later year, even if we are not a PFIC in that year. In addition, a portion of the tax imposed on your gain would be increased by an interest charge. Moreover, if we were classified as a PFIC in any taxable year, you would not be able to benefit from any preferential tax rate with respect to any dividend distribution that you may receive from us in that year or any later year. Finally, you would also be subject to special U.S. tax reporting requirements. We believe that we were not a PFIC for the taxable year 2005. However, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for the taxable year 2006 and/or later taxable years, as PFIC status is re-tested each year and depends on the facts in such year. For example, we would be a PFIC for the taxable year 2007 if the sum of our average market capitalization, which is our share price multiplied by the total number of our outstanding shares, and our liabilities over that taxable year is not more than twice the value of our cash, cash equivalents, and other assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. We could also be a PFIC for any taxable year if the gross income that we and our subsidiaries earn from passive investments is substantial in comparison with the gross income from our business operations. 12 While we will continue to examine our PFIC status, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for any future taxable year. For more information on the U.S. tax consequences to you that would result from our classification as a PFIC, please see Item 10E, “Additional Information — Taxation — United States federal income taxation — U.S. Holders — Passive Foreign Investment Company.” Any diversion of management attention to matters related to acquisitions or any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with integrating acquired operations may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and/or financial condition. We have recently completed several acquisitions involving seed companies. These transactions are designed to contribute to our long-term growth. We must fit such acquisitions into our growth strategies to generate sufficient value to justify their cost. Acquisitions also present other challenges, including geographical coordination, personnel integration and retention of key management personnel, systems integration and the reconciliation of corporate cultures. Those operations could divert management’s attention from our business or cause a temporary interruption of or loss of momentum in our business and the loss of key personnel from the acquired companies. We may have to take actions that are contrary to our business objectives to avoid being deemed an investment company under the US Investment Company Act of 1940. We are engaged in the research, development, production, sale and distribution of hybrid crop seeds through our PRC Operating Companies in China, and we do not engage in minority investments except on a selective basis as a component of our strategy to expand our business. Currently, we own substantial minority investments in Biocentury Transgene (China) Co., Ltd., Shijiazhuang Liyu Technology Co.,Ltd. and Jilin Changrong High-tech Seed Limited. We believe we are not an investment company within the meaning of Section 3(a)(1)(C) the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “US Investment Company Act”), but as a result of these and other investments, we could be deemed an investment company within the meaning of Section 3(a)(1)(C). We will monitor our assets on a quarterly basis and take all necessary steps in order to ensure that we are not deemed an investment company within the meaning of Section 3(a)(1)(C) or otherwise are required to register as an investment company under the US Investment Company Act in the future. The steps we may need to take could include selling all or part of our minority investments in those companies, investing in a greater proportion of tangible assets relative to our total assets or acquiring control (as such term is defined in the US Investment Company Act) over those companies. Depending on timing and other factors, taking one or more of these steps may divert us from our strategy of expanding our business. If we are unable to take the necessary steps to avoid being inadvertently deemed an investment company or otherwise being required to register under the US Investment Company Act, we would not be able to offer our securities in the United States until we were no longer deemed an investment company under the US Investment Company Act. We could also be subject to other adverse consequences. The integration of Denong into Origin might increase our operation costs and might have an adverse effect on our operating results. By October, 2006, we have acquired approximately 95% equity interest in Denong Zhengcheng Seed Company, Ltd., or Denong, a developer, producer and marketer of rice, corn, canola and cotton in the southwest region of China. To integrate Denong into our growth strategies, we may need to invest considerable financial and human resources, which will likely increase our operation costs. Furthermore, the integration process could divert our management’s attention from our business, which might have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our business benefits from certain PRC government incentives. Expiration of, or changes to, these incentives could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The PRC government has provided various incentives to high-technology companies in order to encourage development of the high-technology industry. Such incentives include reduced tax rates and other measures. For example, Origin Biotechnology is entitled to a preferential tax rate of 15% as a high technology company, and was exempted from income tax for 2006. As these tax benefits expire, the effective tax rate will increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, repeal of privileges granted by the Chinese government to the seed industry, such as subsidies, could adversely affect our earnings as well. 13 Efforts to protect our intellectual property rights and to defend against claims against us can increase our costs and will not always succeed; any failures could adversely affect our sales and profitability or restrict our ability to conduct our business. Intellectual property rights are crucial to our business. We endeavor to obtain and protect our intellectual property rights where our products are produced. However, we may be unable to obtain protection for our intellectual property. Even if protection is obtained, competitors, growers, or others in the chain of commerce may raise legal challenges to our rights or illegally infringe on our rights, including through means that may be difficult to prevent or detect. In addition, because of the rapid pace of technological change, and the confidentiality of patent applications in some jurisdictions, competitors may be issued patents from applications that were unknown to us prior to issuance. These patents could reduce the value of our commercial or pipeline products or, to the extent they cover key technologies on which we have unknowingly relied, require that we seek to obtain licenses or cease using the technology, no matter how valuable to our business. We cannot assure you we would be able to obtain such a license on acceptable terms. The extent to which we succeed or fail in our efforts to protect our intellectual property will affect our costs, sales and other results of operations. Our ability to estimate growers’ future needs, and match our production and the level of product carried by our distributors to those needs, has a significant effect on our sales. Growers’ decisions are affected by market, economic and weather conditions that are not known in advance. Failure to provide distributors with enough inventory of our products will reduce our current sales. In addition, inadequate distributor liquidity could affect distributors’ ability to pay for our products and, therefore, affect our sales or our ability to collect on our receivables. Deficient railway transportation capacity in Northwestern China may result in the increase of our transportation-related costs and thus adversely affect our business. Our major production base is located at Linze County, Gansu Province, China. Seeds produced there are transported throughout China each year by means of railway, which is currently the most cost-efficient way. With economic development and frequent flow of material, the Northwest railway is deficient in terms of its transportation capability. As our volume of freight increases year by year, the seeds may have to be transported by other vehicles if the railway cannot guarantee the increasingly larger volume of freight. The production costs thus will increase accordingly with the increase in transportation costs, which may adversely affect our business. There are difficulties in managing our storage system, which may result in damage of seeds in storage and operating losses. Seed storage entails significant risks, including difficulties in management of moisture, temperatureand humidity of storage condition, any failure of which may result in damage of seeds in store and operating losses. Seasonal sales changes of our main products result in cyclical changes of cash flow and operating activities, which may cause difficulties in our capital chain and have a material and adverse effect on our business operations. The sales season of corn, rice and cotton seed lasts from October to June; the delivery of canola lasts from July to September. We generally do not have sales revenue from July to September, which results in cyclical changes of our cash flow and operating activities. From July to September each year, our cash flow will be very limited. Any failure in utilizing capital during this period may cause difficulties in our capital chain, and therefore may have a material and adverse effect on our business operations. Aged inventory may result in an increase of our administrative expenses and cause operating losses. Due to the nature of the seed industry, we normally produce seeds according to our production plan before we deliver the seeds to our customers. Our production plan could be too aggressive, and therefore we could produce more seeds than demanded by the market which could result in aged seeds. We may decide not to sell the aged seeds if we take into account factors such as the quality of the seeds. In that case, the aged inventory could eventually be sold as common products at greatly reduced prices. Aged inventory could result in assets impairment risk, in which case we would suffer a loss and incur an increase of general and administrative expense. 14 If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud or restatement of previously reported financial results, and investor confidence and the market price of our shares may be adversely impacted. We will become subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in the fiscal year ending September 30, 2007, which requires us to set out a management report containing an assessment on our internal controls over financial reporting in our Annual Report. It also requires an independent registered public accounting firm attest to and report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we cannot implement the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our independent auditors may not be able to provide a written attestation as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission. It could also result in the loss of investor confidence in us, in particular the reliability of financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively affect the market price of our shares. Furthermore, we may be required to incur significant costs for compliance with Section 404, and thereby increase our costs and decrease our operating margins. We have limited business insurance coverage in China. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. In particular, PRC insurance companies do not offer extensive business insurance products. As a result, we do not have any business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. Risks relating to organization of our business and our structure Three of our PRC Operating Companies will be controlled subsidiaries through stock consignment agreements rather than by direct ownership of shares, the terms of which may have to be enforced, which would require us to incur extra costs, create uncertainty as to ownership of the operating businesses involved and risk the possible loss of rights. Under PRC law, foreign entities are not currently permitted to own more than 49% of a seed production company. In order to address those restrictions, Origin, a non-Chinese entity that cannot directly own the shares of three of our PRC Operating Companies, namely, Beijing Origin Seed Limited, Changchun Origin Seed Technology Development Limited and Henan Origin Cotton Technology Development Limited, will instead hold the right to control such shares in all respects, including voting, dividends, nomination of directors, and corporate management, through stock consignment agreements executed by the owners of the stock of these companies. When the shares can be transferred, they will be transferred to us for no additional consideration. There is the risk, however, that a consigning stockholder will not fulfill its obligations under the stock consignment agreement. In that event, we may need to resort to the PRC courts to have our rights under the agreements enforced. Such enforcement will cause us to incur legal expenses. In addition, while a case is pending there will be uncertainty regarding our rights as to the three PRC Operating Companies involved. In addition, a PRC court may decide not to enforce the agreements in part or at all. To the extent these agreements are neither observed nor enforced as intended, the three PRC Operating Companies and Denong Zhengcheng Seed Company, Ltd, which is approximately 95% owned by Beijing origin Seed Limited, will not be controlled by us as intended, which will affect our value and restrict our ability to obtain the income and other rights of ownership associated with the consigned stock. It may also prevent the consolidation of our financial statements with the three PRC Operating Companies, which would reduce the reported earnings of the consolidated companies. The uncertainty of ownership may also affect our market value. Whether or not a consignment agreement is terminated depends on the consensus of our board and the consignees, the result of which termination would be a possible loss of some rights or assets held by us without receiving fair value in return. The consignment agreements relating to our control of the stock of three of our PRC Operating Companies (not including Origin Biotechnology) may be terminated after three years upon mutual agreement between us and the consignees. Three of the consignees, Messrs. Han, Yang and Yuan, also serve as our officers and/or directors. These three persons own, in the aggregate, 8,619,350 shares of our common stock, or about 37% of our issued and outstanding common stock. Holding such amount of stock will allow them to control or greatly influence the selection of directors and matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including voting to terminate the consignment agreements. 15 There are corporate protections in place to protect our interests, such as an independent board of directors, an Audit Committee of independent directors that must approve insider transactions, a code of conduct requiring fair dealing with the Company and the British Virgin Islands statutory provision that a disposition of more than 50% of the assets of a company must be approved by a majority of the stockholders. Moreover, if consigned stock is transferred to us as provided in the agreements when the restrictions under PRC law are lifted, that stock will thereafter not be subject to the consignment agreements, and the termination of the consignment agreements would then have no effect as to ownership of that stock. However, if the consignment agreements should be terminated, then we would lose our rights with respect to the consigned stock and profits of the issuing corporation. Such a loss would impair the value of the company and would reduce our ability to generate revenue. We may be subject to contingent tax liabilities. On December 20, 2004, Chardan China Acquisition Corp., or Chardan, entered into a stock purchase agreement with State Harvest Holdings Limited, or State Harvest, and all the stockholders of State Harvest for Chardan’s acquisition of State Harvest. In connection with the acquisition, Chardan formed its wholly-owned subsidiary, Origin Agritech Limited, or Origin. On November 8, 2005, Chardan mergered with and into Origin for the purpose of redomestication out of the United States. The redomestication merger was achieved by a one-for-one exchange of all the outstanding common stock of Chardan for common stock of Origin, and the assumption of all the rights and obligations of Chardan by Origin. Immediately after the redomestication merger, Origin acquired all the common stock of State Harvest by the issuance of shares and payments of cash consideration to the shareholders of State Harvest or their designee. The Company may be subject to contingent tax liabilities in connection with the above share exchange transaction, and considers such contingent tax liabilities more likely than remote. As of December 31, 2005, such contingent tax liabilities are reasonably possible to be in the range of RMB 39,059,000 to RMB 64,218,000. The Company does not expect to incur tax liabilities at the higher end of the range, based on the information currently available. The technical services agreements between Beijing Origin State Harvest Biotechnology Limited and the other three Operating Companies may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities for transfer pricing adjustments. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that our technical service agreements between Beijing Origin State Harvest Biotechnology Limited, or Origin Biotechnology, and the other three PRC Operating Companies, namely, Beijing Origin Seed Limited, Changchun Origin Seed Technology Development Limited and Henan Origin Cotton Technology Development Limited, were not entered into based on arm’s length negotiations. If the PRC tax authorities determine that these agreements were not entered into on an arm’s length basis, they may adjust our income and expenses for PRC tax purposes in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, or deductions recorded by the three PRC Operating Companies, which could adversely affect us by: · increasing the three PRC Operating Companies’ tax liability without reducing Origin Biotechnology’s tax liability, which could further result in late payment fees and other penalties to our PRC Operating Companies for under-paid taxes; or · limiting Origin Biotechnology’s ability to maintain preferential tax treatment and government financial incentives, which, if the transfer pricing adjustment is significant, could result in Origin Biotechnology failing to qualify for those preferential tax treatments and government financial incentives. As a result, any transfer pricing adjustment could have a material and adverse impact upon our financial condition. There are government regulations that limit or prohibit foreign investment in the PRC, which may restrict our growth. Although there is a general restriction on foreign investment in the seed industry in the PRC, our corporate structure enables us to receive foreign investment, those restrictions notwithstanding. Our continued ability to receive foreign investment may be important to our ability to continue to expand our business rapidly and to manage that expansion effectively. There is no way to be certain that a change in the regulations allowing us to receive foreign investment will not occur, which could disrupt our plan to expand our business. 16 Risks relating to the PRC Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC, including its policy of reforming its economic system, could have a material adverse effect on the growth of private businesses in the PRC such as ours. Since the late 1970’s, the PRC has been reforming its economic system and changing from a planned economy based on governmental dictates and priorities to one that uses market forces to influence deployment of economic resources, labor and capital and to determine business endeavors. It is impossible to predict whether or not the government will continue to encourage economic liberalization and further release its control over the economy and encourage private enterprise. We also cannot predict the timing or extent of future economic reforms that may be proposed. Any reimposition of planned economy regulation or similar kinds of restrictions could reduce the freedom of private businesses to operate in a profitable manner, restrict inflows of capital or stifle investor willingness to participate in the PRC economy. To the extent we need additional capital, any restrictions on foreign ownership, foreign investment and repatriation of profits will hamper our ability to find capital outside of the PRC. The economy of China has been experiencing unprecedented growth, leading to some inflation. If the government tries to control inflation by traditional means of monetary policy or returns to planned economic techniques, our business will suffer a reduction in sales growth and expansion opportunities. The rapid growth of the PRC economy has historically resulted in high levels of inflation. If the government tries to control inflation, it may have an adverse effect on the business climate and growth of private enterprise in the PRC. An economic slowdown could have an adverse effect on our sales and may increase costs. If inflation is allowed to proceed unchecked, our costs would likely increase, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to increase our prices to an extent that would offset the increase in our expenses. A return to profit repatriation controls may limit our ability to pay dividends and expand our business, and may reduce the attractiveness of investing in PRC business opportunities. PRC law allows enterprises owned by foreign investors to remit their profits, dividends and bonuses earned in the PRC to other countries, and the remittance does not require prior approval by the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. SAFE regulations require extensive documentation and reporting, some of which is burdensome and slows payments. If there is a return to payment restrictions and reporting, the ability of a PRC company to attract investors will be reduced. Also, current investors may not be able to obtain the benefits of the profits of the business generated in the PRC for other reasons. Relevant PRC laws and regulations permit payment of dividends only from retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. It is possible that the PRC tax authorities may require changes in determining income of the Company that would limit its ability to pay dividends and make other distributions. PRC law requires companies to set aside a portion of net income to fund certain reserves, which amounts are not distributable as dividends. These rules and possible changes could restrict our PRC Operating Companies from repatriating funds to State Harvest and ultimately to us and our stockholders as dividends. Any fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign currency exchange losses. Because our earnings and cash from operations are denominated in Renminbi, fluctuations in exchange rates between U.S. dollars and Renminbi will affect our balance sheet and earnings per share in U.S. dollars. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. The People’s Bank of China sets and publishes a dairly base exchange rate. Until July 21, 2005, the People’s Bank of China set this rate with reference primarily to the supply and demand of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar in the market during the prior day; beginning on July 21, 2005, the People’s Bank of China has set this rate with reference primarily to the supply and demand of Renminbi against a basket of currencies in the market during the prior day, and the People’s Bank of China also takes into account other factors such as the general conditions existing in the international foreign exchange markets. The PRC government may further adjust the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies, and may further amend its policy of using a fixed-rate regime to govern foreign currency transactions, although the PRC government has not committed itself to take any such action currently. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue, which will be exchanged into U.S. dollars, the value of any U.S. dollar denominated investments we make in the future and any earnings on such investments. 17 Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. Substantially all our revenues and expenses are denominated in Renminbi. We may need to convert a portion of our revenues into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations, including, among others, payment of dividends declared, if any, in respect of our ordinary shares. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, our PRC subsidiary is able to pay dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not take measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of PRC governmental authorities, including the SAFE. If our PRC Operating Companies borrow foreign currency loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with the SAFE, and if we finance our PRC subsidiary by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities including the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterparts. These limitations could affect the ability of our PRC subsidiary to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our overseas and cross border investment activity, and a failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. In October 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, promulgated regulations that require registration with local SAFE offices in connection with direct or indirect offshore investment by PRC residents, including PRC individual residents and PRC corporate entities. These regulations apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents and also apply to our prior and future offshore acquisitions. In particular, the SAFE regulations require PRC residents to file with competent SAFE offices information about offshore companies in which they have directly or indirectly invested and to make follow-up filings in connection with certain material transactions involving such offshore companies, such as increases or decreases in investment amount, transfers or exchanges of shares, mergers or divisions, long-term equity or debt investments, or external guarantees or other material events that do not involve return investment. The SAFE regulations required registration by March 31, 2006 of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in offshore companies. If a PRC resident with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. Our major shareholders who are PRC residents, or whose shares are beneficially owned by PRC residents, have completed foreign exchange registration with the local foreign exchange bureau according to these SAFE regulations. However, as these regulations are relatively new and there is uncertainty concerning the reconciliation of the new regulations with other approval requirements, it is unclear how the regulations, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. We are committed to complying and to ensuring that our shareholders who are subject to the regulations comply with the relevant rules. However, we cannot assure you that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by the regulations or other related legislation. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to receive any required approvals or make any required registrations may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross border investment activities, limit our PRC subsidiary to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, as a result of which our business operations and our ability to distribute a dividend to you could be materially and adversely affected. 18 If certain exemptions within the PRC regarding withholding taxes are removed, we may be required to deduct Chinese corporate withholding taxes from any dividends that are paid to us by the PRC Operating Companies which will reduce the return on investment. Under current PRC tax laws, regulations and rulings, companies are exempt from withholding taxes with respect to dividends paid to stockholders of PRC companies outside the PRC. If the foregoing exemption is eliminated, we may be required to withhold such taxes, which will reduce our revenues as a parent company and the amount of retained earnings that may be distributed to our stockholders. The PRC legal system has inherent uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to you. Nearly all of our assets and all of our operations are in the PRC. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but are not binding on subsequent cases and have limited precedential value. Since 1979, the PRC legislative bodies have promulgated laws and regulations dealing with such economic matters as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. The laws in the PRC differ from the laws in the United States and may afford less protection to our stockholders. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in the PRC based on United States judgments against us, our subsidiaries, our officers and directors and experts named in the Transition Report. We are incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and our PRC Operating Companies are formed under PRC law. Substantially all of our assets are located in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and executive officers reside within the PRC, and substantially all of the assets of these persons are located within the PRC. It may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside the PRC upon our directors, or executive officers and experts named in the Transition Report, including effecting service of process with respect to matters arising under United States federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. The PRC does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States and many other countries. As a result, recognition and enforcement in the PRC of judgments of a court in the United States or many other jurisdictions in relation to any matter, including securities laws, may be difficult or impossible. Furthermore, an original action may be brought in the PRC against our assets and our subsidiaries, our directors and executive officers and experts named in the Transition Report only if the actions are not required to be arbitrated by PRC law and only if the facts alleged in the complaint give rise to a cause of action under PRC law. In connection with any such original action, a PRC court may award civil liability, including monetary damages. The recurrence of SARS in China, the potential outbreak of avian flu in China, or similar adverse public health developments, and concerns over the spread of these diseases in China and elsewhere, may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. From December 2002 to June 2003, China and certain other countries experienced an outbreak of a new and highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia now known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. On July 5, 2003, the World Health Organization declared that the SARS outbreak had been contained. Since September 2003, however, a number of isolated new cases of SARS have been reported, most recently in central China in April 2004. During May and June of 2003, many businesses in China were closed by the PRC government to prevent transmission of SARS. Recently, concerns have been raised with respect to the spread of avian flu in various regions in China. Any recurrence of the SARS outbreak, outbreak of avian flu, or the development of a similar health hazard in China, may adversely affect our business and operating results. For instance, a recurrence of SARS, outbreak of avian flu or any other epidemic may lead to health or other government regulations requiring temporary closure of our business, or the businesses of our suppliers or customers, which will severely disrupt our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 19 Risks relating to our shares There will be a substantial number of ordinary shares available for sale in the future which may increase volumes of ordinary shares available and lead to a decline in the market price of ordinary shares. The initial purchase price for the acquisition of State Harvest and its subsidiaries included 10,000,000 ordinary shares. These shares were not registered, and a substantial portion of them are held by insiders; therefore they are restricted. Commencing on November 8, 2006, one year after the consummation of the acquisition, these shares have become eligible for resale in the public market under SEC Rule 144 with limitations, and after two years some of these shares may become eligible for resale in the public market under SEC Rule 144(k). As a result, the number of shares available for sale will likely increase over time, which tends to reduce the market price of shares. If certain financial or financing objectives are achieved, the former State Harvest shareholders will be entitled to receive additional amounts of our ordinary shares as contingent consideration for the acquisition of their shares, which would result in dilution and might have an adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares. Under the stock purchase agreement among Chardan, State Harvest and all the shareholders of State Harvest, the former State Harvest shareholders are entitled to receive additional ordinary shares if certain financial performance or financing targets are achieved. There is no obligation to register the shares after issuance. However, after being held for appropriate periods, the ordinary shares will be eligible for resale under Rule 144. If the additional shares are earned, it will significantly increase the number of ordinary shares outstanding. The issuance of these additional shares will have a dilutive effect on the shares already outstanding and may cause a reduction in the trading price of our ordinary shares in the public market. Voting control by executive officers, directors and other of our affiliates may limit investors’ ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring shareholder approval. Three of our executive officers and directors, Messrs. Han, Yang and Yuan own about 37% of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares. These three major shareholders may maintain significant control over the outcome of some corporate transactions or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors and the approval of other business transactions. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares or prevent shareholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their ordinary shares. In addition, if these major shareholders choose to dispose of a material portion of our ordinary shares they hold, the prevailing market price of our securities may decline. Certain provisions in our organizational documents may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit your opportunity to sell your shares at a premium. Our memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us. Under those provisions, the board of directors has the power to issue preferred shares with such rights attaching to them as they decide and that this power could be used in a manner that would delay, defer or prevent a change of control of us. These provisions could have the effect of depriving you of an opportunity to sell your shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to acquire control of us in a tender offer or similar transactions. As a result of the merger of Chardan with and into Origin, a British Virgin Islands company, and the issuance of shares in the acquisition of State Harvest, we qualify as a foreign private issuer and as a result are subject to reduced requirements with respect to the reporting of financial statements and other material events to our shareholders and the SEC. As a foreign private issuer, we are obligated to file an Annual Report with audited financial statements and 6-K reports at such times as we release information to the public either voluntarily or pursuant to the laws of the British Virgin Islands or the PRC. Therefore, the regularity of financial and other information will be less than would be applicable to a domestic United States registered company under the rules and regulations of the SEC. Investors may not receive information on a timely basis, therefore increasing their risk of investment. 20 ITEM 