Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to numerous risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this report. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not presently know or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business and the trading price of our securities. RISK FACTORS We depend to a great extent on the economies and the demographics of the local communities that we serve and are also susceptible to general economic downturns, which could have a material and adverse impact on our advertising and circulation revenues and on our profitability. Our advertising revenues and, to a lesser extent, circulation revenues, depend upon a variety of factors specific to the communities that our publications serve. These factors include, among others, the size and demographic characteristics of the local population, local economic conditions in general and the economic condition of the retail segments of the communities that our publications serve. If the local economy, population or prevailing retail environment of a community we serve experiences a downturn, our publications, revenues and profitability in that market could be adversely affected. Our advertising revenues are also susceptible to negative trends in the general economy that affect consumer spending. The advertisers in our newspapers and other publications and related websites are primarily retail businesses, which can be significantly affected by regional or national economic downturns and other developments. Operating revenue declines Advertising revenue in certain categories, or all categories, may decrease in the future. For example, print automotive classified advertising revenue declined in 2007 and 2006, primarily related to industry-wide issues affecting certain domestic auto manufacturers. Such decreases may not be offset by growth in advertising in other categories, such as online revenue, which has been rising significantly for the last several years. There can also be no assurance such online growth will continue. In 2007, print real estate classified advertising also suffered declines due to cyclical issues affecting the residential real estate market nationally. Such reductions may negatively impact future amounts of advertising revenue generated by the Company and are currently impacting certain retail advertising customers, such as furniture, electronics and home improvement retailers. 19 Table of Contents Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and reduce the funds available to us for other purposes. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. At December 30, 2007, we had indebtedness outstanding of $107.7 million under the Credit Facility and $32.3 million under the Subordinated Credit Facility. Our pro forma and actual interest expense for the year ended December 30, 2007 was $13.6 million and $7.3 million, respectively. At December 30, 2007, the borrowings under the Credit Facility were subject to floating interest rates ranging from 8.25% to 8.50%. Our Subordinated Credit Facility has a leverage ratio based floating rate of payment-in-kind interest of between 14.25% and 15.0% (with a cash payment discount option). In the case of a default, the interest rate shall not be limited to 15.0%, and the applicable interest rate shall be 2.0% above the otherwise then applicable interest rate until such default is cured. The current interest rate on the Subordinated Credit Facility is 15.0%. Interest on the borrowings unde r our Subordinated Credit Facility is due on maturity at January 2, 2014. On November 30, 2007, the Company executed two interest rate swaps, one in the notional amount of $30.0 million and one in the notional amount of $25.0 million, with a spot starting date of December 4, 2007. The interest rate swaps have identical terms of two years. Under these swaps, the Company pays an amount to the swap counterparty representing interest on a notional amount at a rate of 3.91% and receives an amount from the swap counterparty representing interest on the notional amount at a rate equal to the three-month LIBOR. Our total indebtedness under the Credit Facility and Subordinated Credit Facility was $107.7 million and $32.3 million, respectively, as of December 30, 2007. As of that date, we had $17.3 million of additional committed capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility, of which $6.4 million could be borrowed based on our current EBITDA, as defined in the Credit Facility. If such additional borrowings were used to invest in or acquire EBITDA generating assets, the amount of such additional borrowings could be greater than $6.4 million, based on the additional EBITDA acquired, up to the $17.3 million maximum additional availability under the Revolving Credit Facility. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health in the following ways: • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of interest on our outstanding indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes, including capital expenditures, acquisitions, working capital and general corporate purposes; • our substantial degree of leverage could make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or other adverse events in our business; • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired, limiting our ability to maintain the value of our assets and operations; and • there would be a material and adverse effect on our business and financial condition if we are unable to service our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, as needed. In addition, our Credit Facility and Subordinated Credit Facility contain, and future indebtedness may contain, financial and other restrictive covenants, ratios and tests that limit our ability to incur additional debt and engage in other activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our ability to comply with the covenants, ratios or tests contained in our Credit Facility, Subordinated Credit Facility or in the agreements governing our future indebtedness may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. In addition, events of default, if not waived or cured, could result in the acceleration of the maturity of our indebtedness under our Credit Facility, Subordinated Credit Facility or our other indebtedness. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our Credit Facility could proceed against the security granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If the lenders accelerat e the payment of our indebtedness under our Credit Facility, Subordinated Credit Facility or other indebtedness, if any, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full such indebtedness. 20 Table of Contents Goodwill and other intangible assets We have significant amounts of goodwill and identified intangible assets which may not be realizable in future periods. See Item 7. ‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies’’, included herein, for additional information on the risks associated with such assets. We may not retain a sufficient amount of cash or generate sufficient funds from operations to consummate acquisitions, fund our operations or repay our indebtedness at maturity or otherwise. Our principal sources of funds have historically been, and we expect will continue to be, cash provided by operating activities and borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility. Our ability to pursue any material expansion of our business, including through acquisitions or increased capital spending, will depend more than it otherwise would on our ability to obtain third-party financing. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available to us at all, or at an acceptable cost. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness as required will depend on our ability to generate cash flow from operations in the future. This ability, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our business will generate cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We intend to continue to pursue acquisition opportunities, which may subject us to considerable business and financial risk. We have grown through, and anticipate that we will continue to grow through, acquisitions of daily and weekly newspapers and niche publications. We evaluate potential acquisitions on an ongoing basis and from time-to-time are actively pursuing acquisition opportunities. We may not be successful in identifying acquisition opportunities, assessing the value, strengths and weaknesses of these opportunities and consummating acquisitions on acceptable terms. Furthermore, suitable acquisition opportunities may not even be made available or known to us. Acquisitions may expose us to particular business and financial risks that include, but are not limited to: • diverting management’s attention; • incurring additional indebtedness and assuming liabilities; • incurring significant additional capital expenditures, transaction and operating expenses and non-recurring acquisition-related charges; • experiencing an adverse impact on our earnings from the amortization or write-off of acquired goodwill and other intangible assets; • failing to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; • acquiring businesses with which we are not familiar; • entering new markets with which we are not familiar; and • failing to retain key personnel, readers and customers of the acquired businesses. We may not be able to successfully manage acquired businesses or increase our cash flow from these operations. If we are unable to successfully implement our acquisition strategy or address the risks associated with acquisitions, or if we encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications or delays frequently encountered in connection with the integration of acquired entities and the expansion of operations, our growth and ability to compete may be impaired, we may fail to achieve acquisition synergies and we may be required to focus resources on integration of operations rather than other profitable areas. In addition, we may compete for certain acquisition targets with companies having greater financial resources than we do. We anticipate that we may finance acquisitions through cash provided by operating activities, borrowings under our Senior Credit Facility 21 Table of Contents and other indebtedness, which would reduce our cash available for other purposes, including the repayment of indebtedness and payment of dividends. If there is a significant increase in the price of newsprint or a reduction in the availability of newsprint, our results of operations and financial condition may suffer. The basic raw material for our publications is newsprint. We generally maintain only a 30-day inventory of newsprint, although participation in a newsprint-buying consortium helps ensure adequate supply. An inability to obtain an adequate supply of newsprint at a favorable price or at all in the future could have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce our publications. Historically, the price of newsprint has been volatile, reaching a high of approximately $750 per metric ton in 1996 and dropping to a low of almost $410 per metric ton in 2002. During 2007, newsprint prices were generally decreasing through the third quarter. Since then, we have seen increases on a monthly basis and anticipate further increases in 2008. Significant increases in newsprint costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See ‘‘Business — Newsprint’’ in Item 1 of this report. We compete with a large number of companies in the local media industry; if we are unable to compete effectively, our advertising and circulation revenues may decline. Our business is concentrated in newspapers and other print publications located primarily in Top 50 markets in the United States. Our revenues primarily consist of advertising, circulation and commercial printing revenue. Competition for advertising revenues comes from direct mail, directories, radio, television, outdoor advertising, other newspaper publications, the internet and other media. For example, as the use of the internet has increased, we have lost some classified advertising and subscribers to online advertising businesses and our free internet sites that contain abbreviated versions of our publications. Competition for advertising revenues is based largely upon advertiser results, advertising rates, readership, demographics and distribution levels. Competition for circulation is based largely upon the content of the publication and its price and editorial quality. Our local and regional competitors vary from market to market and many of our competit ors for advertising revenues are larger and have greater financial and distribution resources than us. We may incur increasing costs competing for advertising expenditures and circulation. We may also experience a decline of print advertising and circulation revenue due to alternative media, such as the internet. If we are not able to compete effectively for advertising expenditures and paid circulation, our revenues may decline. See ‘‘Business — Competition’’ in Item 1 of this report. Newer forms of media communications, such as the Internet, are increasingly competing with newspapers and magazines for advertising revenue and are drawing such revenue away from such traditional media. Many newspapers, particularly those serving large national or metropolitan readerships, have been adversely affected by loss of advertising revenue and paid circulation subscriptions to other media forms, particularly Internet-based publications. There can be no assurance that this trend will not continue or that community newspapers and, more particularly, the ACN newspapers will not be adversely affected by it. Our business is subject to seasonal and other fluctuations, which affects our revenues and operating results. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations that we expect to be reflected in our operating results in future periods. The first fiscal quarter of the year tends to be the weakest quarter because advertising volume is at its lowest levels following the holiday season. Correspondingly, our second and third fiscal quarters are, historically, our strongest quarters, because they include heavy seasonal and certain holiday advertising, including Easter, Mother’s Day, Graduation, back to school and other special events. We expect that this seasonality will continue to affect our advertising revenue in future periods. Other factors that will affect our quarterly revenues and operating results may be beyond our control, including changes in the pricing policies of our competitors, the hiring and retention of key personnel, wage and cost pressures, distribution costs, changes in newsprint prices and general economic factors. 22 Table of Contents We could be adversely affected by declining circulation. According to the Newspaper Association of America, overall daily newspaper circulation, including national and urban newspapers, has declined at an average annual rate of 0.8% since 1996 and 1.2% during the period from 2001 to 2006. Circulation represented 4% of our total pro forma and actual revenue in 2007. Our circulation revenue is derived from home delivery sales to subscribers and single copy sales at retail stores and vending racks and boxes. There can be no assurance that our circulation will not decline in the future which would negatively affect our circulation revenue. In addition, declines in circulation could impair our ability to maintain or increase our advertising prices, cause purchasers of advertising in our publications to reduce or discontinue those purchases and discourage potential new advertising customers who could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We have a history of losses and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitable operations in the future. We experienced a loss from operations of approximately $10.7 million on a pro forma basis in 2007 and $4.9 million on an actual basis in 2007. Our results of operations in the future will depend on many factors, including our ability to execute our business strategy and realize efficiencies through our clustering strategy. Our failure to achieve profitability in the future could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital and, accordingly, our ability to grow our business. We are subject to environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations that could cause us to incur significant compliance expenditures and liabilities. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to the environment, storage tanks and the management and disposal of wastes at our facilities. Under various environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for contamination resulting from the release or threatened release of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum at that property. Such laws often impose liability on the owner or operator without regard to fault and the costs of any required investigation or cleanup can be substantial. Our operations are also subject to various employee safety and health laws and regulations, including those pertaining to occupational injury and illness, employee exposure to hazardous materials and employee complaints. Environmental and employee safety and health laws tend to be complex, comprehensive and frequently changing. As a result, we may be involved from time to time in administrative and judicial proceedings and investigations related to environmental and employee safety and health issues. These proceedings and investigations could result in substantial costs to us, divert our management’s attention and adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or develop our real property. Furthermore, if it is determined we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or if our properties are contaminated, it could result in significant liabilities, fines or the suspension or interruption of the operations of specific printing facilities. Future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, new laws or regulations or the discovery of conditions not currently known to us, may give rise to additional compliance or remedial costs that could be material. We depend on key personnel and we may not be able to operate and grow our business effectively if we lose the services of any of our key personnel or are unable to attract qualified personnel in the future. We are dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel and our ability to retain them and hire other qualified employees. In particular, we are dependent upon the management and leadership of Eugene M. Carr, our chief executive officer, and Daniel J. Wilson, our chief financial officer. The loss of either of them or other key personnel could affect our ability to run our business effectively. Competition for senior management personnel is intense and we may not be able to retain our personnel even though we have entered into employment agreements with certain of them. Other than a $4.5 million policy on the life of Mr. Carr, we do not have key man insurance for any of our management or other key personnel. The loss of any key personnel requires the remaining key 23 Table of Contents personnel to divert immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. An inability to find a suitable replacement for any departing executive officer on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to operate and grow our business. Production and distribution of our various publications and the generation of advertising revenue will also require skilled and experienced employees. A shortage of such employees, or our inability to retain such employees, could have an adverse impact on our productivity and costs, our ability to expand, develop and distribute new products, generate advertising sales and our entry into new markets. The cost of retaining or hiring such employees could exceed our expectations. A shortage of skilled or experienced employees in the media industry, or our inability to retain such employees, could pose a risk to achieving improved productivity and reducing costs, which could adversely affect our profitability. Production and distribution of our various publications requires skilled and experienced employees. A shortage of such employees, or our inability to retain such employees, could have an adverse impact on our productivity and costs, our ability to expand, develop and distribute new products and our entry into new markets. The cost of retaining or hiring such employees could exceed our expectations. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange in the future, due to our ability to meet their listing requirements which include many items which we do not control such as market capitalization, share price and the number of public shareholders. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a ‘‘penny stock’’ which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. If the ownership of our common stock continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and the interests of our principal stockholders may conflict with interests of our other stockholders. As of December 30, 2007, 11 individuals and institutions beneficially owned approximately 75% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these holders can control fundamental and significant corporate matters and transactions, including: the election of directors; mergers, consolidations or acquisitions; the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other decisions affecting our capital structure; the amendment of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws; and our dissolution. The interests of these holders may not always coincide with our interests or the interest of our other stockholders. For example, these holders could delay, deter or prevent acts that may be favored by our other stockholders such as hostile takeovers, changes in control and changes in management. As a result of such actions, the market price of our common stock could decline or stockholders might not receive a premium for th eir shares in connection with a change of control transaction. We are a holding company and our access to the cash flow of our subsidiaries is subject to restrictions imposed by our indebtedness. We are a holding company with no material direct operations. Our principal assets are the equity interests we own in our direct subsidiary, American Community Newspapers LLC (‘‘Operating 24 Table of Contents Company’’), through which we indirectly own equity interests in another operating subsidiary, Amendment I, Inc. As a result, we are dependent on loans, dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations. Our subsidiaries are legally distinct from us and have no obligation to make funds available to us. Operating Company and its subsidiary are parties to our Credit Facility, which imposes restrictions on their ability to make loans, dividend payments or other payments to us. Any payment of dividends to us will be subject to the satisfaction of certain financial conditions set forth in our Credit Facility. The ability of Operating Company and its subsidiary to comply with these conditions may be affected by events that are beyond our control. We expect future borrowings by our subsidiaries to contain restrictions or prohibitions on the payment of dividends to us. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, including personnel, and cause us to incur additional expenses. Our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ‘‘Exchange Act’’). These requirements may place a strain on our people, systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition and maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight is required. This resource allocation may divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Our costs have increased as a result of having to comply with the Exchange Act, and the American Stock Exchange listing requirements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 