Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves significant risks, including the following: Risks Associated with Exploration We have no known reserves on our properties. -7- We have no mineral producing properties and have never generated any revenue from our operations. The majority of exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially mineable deposits of ore. Only those mineral deposits that we can economically and legally extract or produce, based on a comprehensive evaluation of cost, grade, recovery and other factors, are considered “resources” or “reserves.” We have no known bodies of commercial ore or economic deposits and have not defined or delineated any proven or probable reserves or resources on any of our properties. We may never discover any gold, silver or other minerals from mineralized material in commercially exploitable quantities and any identified mineralized deposit may never qualify as a commercially mineable (or viable) reserve. In addition, we are in the early stages of exploration and substanti al additional work will be required in order to determine if any economic deposits exist on our properties. Substantial expenditures are required to establish ore reserves through drilling and metallurgical and other testing techniques. No assurance can be given that any level of recovery of the ore reserves will be realized or that any identified mineral deposit will ever qualify as a commercial mineable ore body which can be legally and economically exploited. Even in the event commercial quantities of minerals are discovered, the mining properties might not be brought into a state of commercial production. Estimates of mineral resources are inherently imprecise and depend to some extent on statistical inferences drawn from limited drilling, which may prove unreliable. Fluctuations in the market prices of minerals may render reserves and deposits containing relatively lower grades of mineralization uneconomic. Material changes in mineralized material, grades or recovery rates may affect the economic viability of projects. Finding mineral deposits is dependent on a number of factors, not the least of which are the technical skills of exploration personnel involved. The commercial viability of a mineral deposit once discovered is also dependent on a number of factors, some of which are particular attributes of the deposit, such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure and resource markets, as well as factors independent of the attributes of the deposit, such as government regulations and metal prices. Most of these factors are beyond the control of the entity conducting such mineral exploration. Moreover, short-term operating factors relating to mineral resources, such as the need for orderly development of the deposits or the processing of new or different grades, may cause mining operations, if any, to be unprofitable in any particular period. These risks may limit or prevent us from making a profit from the exploration and development of our mineral properties and could negatively affect the value of our equity. We face risks related to exploration and development, if warranted, of our properties. Our level of profitability, if any, in future years will depend to a great degree on gold and silver prices and whether any of our exploration stage properties can be brought into production. The exploration for and development of mineral deposits involves significant risks. It is impossible to ensure that the current and future exploration programs and/or feasibility studies on our existing mineral properties will establish reserves. Whether an ore body will be commercially viable depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: the particular attributes of the deposit, such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure; metal prices, which cannot be predicted and which have been highly volatile in the past; mining, processing and transportation costs; perceived levels of political risk and the willingness of lenders and investors to provide project financing; labour costs and possible labour strikes; an d governmental regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting materials, foreign exchange, environmental protection, employment, worker safety, transportation, and reclamation and closure obligations. We are subject to the risks normally encountered in the mining industry, such as: · unusual or unexpected geological formations; · fires, floods, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, and other natural disasters; · power outages and water shortages; · cave-ins, land slides, and other similar mining hazards; · labour disruptions and labour disputes; · inability to obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment, or labour; · liability for pollution or other hazards; and · other known and unknown risks involved in the operation of mines and the conduct of exploration. -8- The development of mineral properties is affected by many factors, including, but not limited to: the cost of operations, variations in the grade of ore, fluctuations in metal markets, costs of extraction and processing equipment, availability of equipment and labour, labour costs and possible labour strikes, and government regulations, including without limitation, regulations relating to taxes, royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of minerals, foreign exchange, employment, worker safety, transportation, and environmental protection. Depending on the price of minerals, we may determine that it is impractical to commence, or, if commenced, continue, commercial production. Such a decision would negatively affect our profits and may affect the value of our equity. We may not have access to all of the supplies and materials for our exploration activities which could cause us to delay or suspend operations. Competition and unforeseen limited sources of supplies in the industry could result in occasional spot shortages of supplies, such as dynamite, and certain equipment such as bulldozers and excavators that we might need to conduct exploration. We have not attempted to locate or negotiate with any suppliers of products, equipment or materials. Our exploration efforts will be continued on the receipt of further funding. Once further funding is obtained we will attempt to locate products, equipment and materials. If we cannot find the products and equipment we need we will have to suspend our exploration plans until we do find the products and equipment we need. Our properties may be subject to unregistered agreements, transfers or claims and title may be adversely affected by undetected defects. We have not conducted a legal survey of the boundaries of any of our properties, and therefore, in accordance with the laws of the jurisdictions in which these properties are situated, their existence and area could be in doubt. We have not obtained formal title reports on any of our properties and title may be in doubt. Our properties may be subject to unregistered agreements, transfers or claims and title may be adversely affected by such undetected defects. If title is disputed, we may have to defend our ownership through the courts, and we cannot guarantee that a favorable judgment will be obtained. Any litigation could be extremely costly to us and could limit the available capital for use in other exploration and development activities. We may require additional financing to cover the costs of any litigation necessary to establish title. In the event of an adverse judgment, we could lose ou r property rights and may be required to cease our exploration and development activities on our properties. Mineral operations are subject to government regulations. Our primary exploration properties are located in Ontario and Nunavut. The federal government of Canada and the Provinces of Ontario and Nunavut regulate mining operations and require mining permits and licenses. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to obtain all necessary permits and approvals from various federal, provincial, and local government authorities that may be required in order to undertake exploration activities or commence construction or operation of mine facilities on our properties. Further, there is no guarantee that the federal, provincial, and local governments will not change the terms and conditions of these permits and licenses, adversely affecting us, or that such governments will completely revoke these licenses, terminating our property rights and requiring us to cease exploration and development activities on our properties. If we are unable to obtain and maintain any nec essary permits, we may be forced to abandon all or a portion of our properties. Mining operations are subject to a wide range of government regulations including, but not limited to: restrictions on production and production methods, price controls, tax increases, expropriation of property, import and export control, employment laws, worker safety regulations, environmental protection, protection of agricultural territory or changes in conditions under which minerals may be marketed. Mining operations may also be affected by claims of native peoples, any of which could have the effect of reducing or preventing us from exploiting any possible mineral reserves on our properties. -9- Mineral operations are subject to market forces outside of our control. The marketability of minerals is affected by numerous factors beyond the control of the entity involved in their mining and processing. These factors include, but are not limited to, market fluctuations, government regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, allowable production, import restrictions applicable to equipment and supplies, export controls and supply and demand. One or more of these risk elements could have an impact on costs of an operation and, if significant enough, reduce the profitability of our operation and threaten our continuation. The mining industry is highly competitive. The business of the acquisition, exploration, and development of mineral properties is intensely competitive. We will be required to compete, in the future, directly with other corporations that may have better access to potential mineral resources, more developed infrastructure, more available capital, better access to necessary financing, and more knowledgeable and available employees than us. We may encounter competition in acquiring mineral properties, hiring mining professionals, obtaining mining resources, such as manpower, drill rigs, and other mining equipment. Such corporations could outbid us for potential projects or produce minerals at lower costs. Increased competition could also affect our ability to attract necessary capital funding or acquire suitable producing properties or prospects for mineral exploration in the future. Mining and mineral exploration have substantial operational risks which are uninsured or uninsurable risks. Exploration, development and mining operations involve various hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, metallurgical and other processing problems, unusual or unexpected rock formations, structural cave-ins or slides, flooding, fires, metal losses and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions. These risks could result in damage to or destruction of mineral properties, facilities or other property, personal injury, environmental damage, delays in operations, increased cost of operations, monetary losses and possible legal liability. We may not be able to obtain insurance to cover these risks at economically feasible premiums or at all. We may elect not to insure where premium costs are disproportionate to our perception of the relevant risks. The payment of such insurance premiums and of such liabilities would reduce the funds available for exploration and production activities. Environmental Regulatory Requirements In connection with our operations and properties, we are subject to extensive and changing environmental legislation, regulation and actions. We cannot predict what environmental legislation, regulation or policy will be enacted or adopted in the future or how future laws and regulations will be administered or interpreted. The recent trend in environmental legislation and regulation, generally, is toward stricter standards and this trend is likely to continue in the future. This recent trend includes, without limitation, laws and regulations relating to air and water quality, mine reclamation, waste handling and disposal, the protection of certain species and the preservation of certain lands. These regulations may require the acquisition of permits or other authorizations for certain activities. These laws and regulations may also limit or prohibit activities on certain lands. Compliance with m ore stringent laws and regulations, as well as potentially more vigorous enforcement policies or stricter interpretation of existing laws, may necessitate significant capital outlays, may materially affect our results of operations and business, or may cause material changes or delays in our intended activities. Our operations may require additional analysis in the future including environmental and social impact and other related studies. Certain activities require the submission and approval of environmental impact assessments. Environmental assessments of proposed projects carry a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and directors, officers, and employees. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain all necessary permits that may be required to continue our operation or the exploration of our properties or, if feasible, to commence development, construction or operation of mining facilities at such properties on terms which enable operations to be conducted at economically justifiable costs. -10- Other Regulatory Requirements Our activities are subject to extensive regulations governing various matters, including management and use of toxic substances and explosives, management of natural resources, exploration, development of mines, production and post-closure reclamation, exports, price controls, taxation, regulations concerning business dealings with indigenous peoples, labour standards on occupational health and safety, including mine safety, and historic and cultural preservation. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in civil or criminal fines or penalties, enforcement actions thereunder, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions, any of which could result in our incurring significant expenditures. We may also be r equired to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of a breach of such laws, regulations or permitting requirements. It is also possible that future laws and regulations, or more stringent enforcement of current laws and regulations by governmental authorities, could cause additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions on or suspension of our operations and delays in the exploration and development of our properties. Risks Associated with Financing We have a history of losses and no revenues. We are a mineral exploration company without operations and have historically incurred losses. To date, we have not recorded any revenues from our operations nor have we commenced commercial production on any of our properties. We do not expect to receive revenues from operations in the foreseeable future, if at all. We expect to continue to incur losses unless and until such time as properties enter into commercial production and generate sufficient revenues to fund our continuing operations. Until such time, we will be dependent upon future financing in order to meet our capital requirements and continue our plan of operations. Although we have raised additional private placement financing during fiscal 2006, these funds may not be sufficient to undertake all of our planned acquisition, exploration, and development programs. We cannot guarantee that we will obtain necessary financing. The development of our properties will require the commitment of substantial resources to conduct the time consuming exploration and development of properties. The amounts and timing of expenditures will depend on the progress of on-going exploration, assessment, and development, the results of consultants’ analyses and recommendations, the rate at which operating losses are incurred, the execution of any joint venture agreements with strategic partners, our acquisition of additional properties and other facto rs, many of which are beyond our control. We may never generate any revenues or achieve profitability. -11- We may require additional capital to meet our capital requirements for future fiscal years. We have raised additional private placement financing during fiscal 2006, but may not have sufficient financial resources to undertake all planned acquisition, exploration and development programs. In the future, our ability to continue our exploration, assessment, and development activities depends in part on our ability to commence operations and generate revenues or to obtain financing through joint ventures, debt financing, equity financing, production sharing arrangements or some combination of these or other means. There can be no assurance that option arrangements will be exercised and the associated funding obtained. There can be no assurance that we will commence operations and generate sufficient revenues to meet our obligations as they become due or will obtain necessary financing on acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to meet our ongoing obligations on a timely basis could result in the loss or substantial dilution of our interests (as existing or as proposed to be acquired) in our properties. In addition, should we incur significant losses in future periods, we may be unable to continue as a going concern, and realization of assets and settlement of liabilities in other than the normal course of business may be at amounts significantly different from those in the financial statements included in this Annual Report. The prices of precious and base minerals and metals fluctuate widely and may not produce enough revenue to cover our costs. Even if commercial quantities of mineral deposits are discovered, there is no guarantee that a profitable market will exist for the sale of the metals produced. Our long-term viability and profitability depend, in large part, upon the market price of metals which have experienced significant movement over short periods of time, and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including international economic and political trends, expectations of inflation, currency exchange fluctuations, interest rates and global or regional consumption patterns, speculative activities and increased production due to improved mining and production methods. The supply of and demand for metals are affected by various factors, including political events, economic conditions and production costs in major producing regions. There can be no assurance that the price of any minerals produced from our properties will be such that a ny such deposits can be mined at a profit. We are dependent upon key management employees. The success of our operations will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including (i) our ability to enter into strategic alliances through a combination of one or more joint ventures, mergers or acquisition transactions; and (ii) our ability to attract and retain additional key personnel in sales, marketing, technical support and finance. These and other factors will require the use of outside suppliers as well as the talents and efforts of our management. There can be no assurance of success with any or all of these factors on which our operations will depend. We have relied and may continue to rely, upon consultants and others for operating expertise. Our growth will require new personnel, which we will be required to recruit, hire, train and retain. We expect significant growth in the number of our employees if we determine that a mine at any of our properties is commercially feasible, we are able to raise sufficient funding and we elect to develop the property. This growth will place substantial demands on us and our management. Our ability to assimilate new personnel will be critical to our performance. We will be required to recruit additional personnel and to train, motivate and manage employees. We will also have to adopt and implement new systems in all aspects of our operations. This will be particularly critical in the event we decide not to use contract miners at any of our properties. We have no assurance that we will be able to recruit the personnel required to execute our programs or to manage these changes successfully. -12- We have limited experience with development stage mining operations. We have limited experience in placing resource properties into production, and our ability to do so will be dependent upon using the services of appropriately experienced personnel or entering into agreements with other major resource companies that can provide such expertise. There can be no assurance that we will have available, the necessary expertise when and if we place our resource properties into production. Certain of our directors and officers are also directors and/or officers and/or shareholder with potential competitors, giving rise to potential conflicts of interest. Several of our directors are also directors, officers or shareholders of other companies. Some of the directors and officers are engaged and will continue to be engaged in the search for additional business opportunities on behalf of other corporations, and situations may arise where these directors and officers will be in direct competition with us. Such associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. Such a conflict poses the risk that we may enter into a transaction on terms which could place us in a worse position than if no conflict existed. Conflicts, if any, will be dealt with in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Business Corporations Act (British Columbia) (the "BCBCA"). Our directors are required by law to act honestly and in good faith with a view to our best interests and to disclose any interest which they many have in any project or opportunity for us. However, each director has a similar obligation to other companies for which such director serves as an officer or director. In order to avoid the possible conflict of interest which may arise between the directors' duties to us and their duties to the other companies on whose boards they serve, our directors and officers have agreed to the following: (a) participation in other business ventures offered to the directors will be allocated between the various companies and on the basis of prudent business judgment and the relative financial abilities and needs of the companies to participate; (b) no commissions or other extraordinary consideration will be paid to such directors and officers; and (c) business opportunities formulated by or through other companies in which the directors and officers are involved will not be offered to us except on the same or better terms than the basis on which they are offered to third party participants. Risks Associated with an Investment in Our Securities Stock market price and volume volatility. The market for our common shares of may be highly volatile for reasons both related to our performance or events pertaining to the industry (ie, mineral price fluctuation/high production costs/accidents) as well as factors unrelated to us or our industry. In particular, market demand for products incorporating minerals in their manufacture fluctuates from one business cycle to the next, resulting in change of demand for the mineral and an attendant change in the price for the mineral. Our common shares can be expected to be subject to volatility in both price and volume arising from market expectations, announcements and press releases regarding our business, and changes in estimates and evaluations by securities analysts or other events or factors. In recent years the securities markets in the United States and Canada have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies, particularly small-capitalization companies such as ours, have experienced wide fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to the operations, performances, underlying asset values, or prospects of such companies. For these reasons, the price of our common shares can also be expected to be subject to volatility resulting from purely market forces over which we will have no control. Further, despite the existence of a market for trading in our common shares in Canada, our stockholders may be unable to sell significant quantities of common shares in the public trading markets without a significant reduction in the price of the stock. -13- Dilution through the granting of options. Because our success of is highly dependent upon our employees, we may in the future grant to some or all of our key employees, directors and consultants options to purchase our common shares as non-cash incentives. Those options may be granted at exercise prices below those for the common shares prevailing in the public trading market at the time or may be granted at exercise prices equal to market prices at times when the public market is depressed. To the extent that significant numbers of such options may be granted and exercised, the interests of our other stockholders may be diluted. New legislation, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, may make it difficult for us to retain or attract officers and directors. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified officers, directors and members of board committees required to provide for effective management as a result of the recent and currently proposed changes in the rules and regulations that govern publicly-held companies. The Sarbanes- Oxley Act of 2002 has resulted in a series of rules and regulations by the Securities and Exchange Commission that increase responsibilities and liabilities of directors and executive officers. The perceived increased personal risk associated with these recent changes may deter qualified individuals from accepting these roles. While we believe we have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are required to evaluate our internal controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on the price of our shares of common stock. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as a small business issuer, we expect that beginning in our annual report for the year ended June 30, 2007, we will be required to furnish a report by management on our internal controls over financial reporting. Such report will contain among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by our management. Starting with our annual report for the year ended June 30, 2008, such report must also contain a statement that our auditors have issued an attestation report on our management’s assessment of such internal controls. Public Company Accounting Oversight Boa rd Auditing Standard No. 2 provides the professional standards and related performance guidance for auditors to attest to, and report on, our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. While we believe our internal control over financial reporting is effective, we cannot be certain that we will be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion in order to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that such internal control is effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of June 30, 2007 (or if our auditors are unable to attest that our management’s report is fairly stated or they are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have a material adverse effect on our stock p rice. Failure to comply with the new rules may make it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage and/or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, on committees of our board of directors, or as executive officers. -14- Because all of our assets and our officers and directors are located outside the United States of America, it may be difficult for an investor to enforce within the United States any judgments obtained against us or any of our officers and directors. All of our assets are located outside of the United States and we do not currently maintain a permanent place of business within the United States. In addition, our directors and officers are nationals and/or residents of countries other than the United States, and all or a substantial portion of such persons' assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for an investor to effect service of process or enforce within the United States any judgments obtained against us or our officers or directors, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Canada and other jurisdictions would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us or our directors and officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in Canada or other jurisdictions against us or our directors and officers predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. We may issue additional shares of common stock in public offerings or private placements so your ownership interest in us may be diluted. Because we may issue shares of common stock in public offerings or private placements in order to raise capital for our operations, your ownership interest may be diluted which results in your percentage of ownership in us decreasing. We may be a passive foreign investment company, which may result in material adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. Investors in our common shares that are U.S. taxpayers should be aware that we may be a passive foreign investment company under Section 1297(a) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (a “PFIC”). If we are or become a PFIC, generally any gain recognized on the sale of our common shares and any excess distributions (as specifically defined), paid on our common shares must be ratably allocated to each day in a U.S. taxpayer’s holding period for our common shares. The amount of any such gain or excess distribution allocated to prior years of such U.S. taxpayers holding period for our common shares generally will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the highest tax applicable to ordinary income in each such prior year, and the U.S. taxpayer will be required to pay interest on the resulting tax liability for each such prior year, calculated as if such tax liability had been due in each such prior year.< /P> Alternatively, a U.S. taxpayer that makes a Qualified Electing Fund (a “QEF”) election with respect to their investment generally will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on such U.S. taxpayer’s pro rata share of our net capital gain and ordinary earnings (as specifically defined and calculated under U.S. federal income tax rules), regardless of whether such amounts are actually distributed by us. U.S. taxpayers should be aware, however, that there can be no assurance that we will satisfy record keeping requirements under the QEF rules or that we will supply U.S. taxpayers with required information under the QEF rules, in the event that we are a PFIC and a U.S. taxpayer wishes to make a QEF election. As a second alternative, a U.S. taxpayer may make a mark-to-market election if we are a PFIC and our common shares are marketable stock (as specifically defined). A U.S. taxpayer that makes a m ark-to-market election generally will include in gross income, for each taxable year in which we are a PFIC, an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (a) the fair market value of our common shares as of the close of such taxable year over (b) such U.S. taxpayer’s adjusted tax basis in our common shares. -15- Broker-Dealers may be discouraged from effecting transactions in our common shares because they are considered “Penny Stocks” and are subject to the Penny Stock Rules. Rules 15g-1 through 15g-9 promulgated under the Exchange Act impose sales practice and disclosure requirements on certain broker-dealers who engage in certain transactions involving a “penny stock". Subject to certain exceptions, a penny stock generally includes any non-NASDAQ equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share. The market price of our shares over the year ended June 30, 2006 was consistently below $5.00 and our shares are deemed penny stock for the purposes of the Exchange Act. The additional sales practice and disclosure requirements imposed upon broker-dealers may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our shares, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the shares and impede the sale of such shares in the secondary market. Under the penny stock regulations, a broker-dealer selling penny stock to anyone other than an established customer or "accredited investor" (generally, an individual with net worth in excess of US$1,000,000 or an annual income exceeding US$200,000, or US$300,000 together with his or her spouse) must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and must receive the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to sale, unless the broker-dealer or the transaction is otherwise exempt. In addition, the penny stock regulations require the broker-dealer to deliver, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prepared by the US Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the penny stock market, unless the broker-dealer or the transaction is otherwise exempt. A broker-dealer is also required to disclose commissions payable to the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, a broker-dealer is required to send monthly statements disclosing recent price information with respect to the penny stock held in a customer's account and information with respect to the limited market in penny stocks. We do not intend to pay cash dividends and there is no assurance that we will ever declare cash dividends. We intend to retain any future earnings to finance our business and operations and any future growth. Therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. 