Item 1A. Risk Factors. Conditions in the global economy and capital markets may adversely affect the company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our products are sold in markets that are sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, such as automotive and construction products. Downturns in general economic conditions can cause fluctuations in demand for our products, product prices, volumes and margins. A decline in the demand for our products or a shift to lower-margin products due to deteriorating economic conditions could adversely affect sales of our products and our profitability and could also result in impairments of certain of our assets. Our business and operating results have been and will continue to be affected by the global recession, including the turbulence in the credit markets, dislocations in the housing and commercial real estate markets, fluctuating commodity prices, volatile exchange rates and other challenges currently affecting the global economy and our customers. Although the effects of the global recession on our business appear to be easing, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue. If the global recession continues for significant future periods or deteriorates significantly, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements LyondellBasell Industries provides significant operating and other services under agreements that are important to our business. The failure of LyondellBasell to perform their obligations, or the termination of these agreements, could adversely affect our operations. Prior to February 28, 2001, we were operated by Shell Chemicals, the chemicals operations unit of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group. Shell Chemicals provided services that were important to our business through December 31, 2009. On January 18, 2010, consistent with our announcement in the third quarter of 2009 of our intent to exit our Pernis, facility, our indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary Kraton Netherlands agreed to terminate substantially all existing material definitive agreements with the Shell Entities. The actual termination of these agreements remains subject to the satisfaction of various conditions and is anticipated to become effective on or about May 31, 2010. Under the agreements that are being terminated (and agreements ancillary to the agreements that are being terminated), the Shell Entities provide various site services, utilities, materials and facilities at the Pernis facility. The Shell Entities employ and provide all staff, other than certain plant managers, assistant plant managers and technical personnel, whom we appoint. The termination of these agreements is being undertaken in connection with our decision to cease production of IR at the Pernis facility and transfer such production to another company facility. In addition, we have service agreements with LyondellBasell Industries, or LyondellBasell, the successor to a Shell Chemicals business. We are a party to: • operating agreements pursuant to which LyondellBasell (in Berre, France and Wesseling, Germany) operate and maintain our European manufacturing facilities and employ and provide almost all of the staff for those facilities; • site services, utilities, materials and facilities agreements pursuant to which LyondellBasell provides utilities and site services to our European manufacturing facilities; and • lease agreements pursuant to which we lease our European manufacturing facilities from LyondellBasell. In January 2009, the U.S. operations of LyondellBasell along with one of its European holding companies, Basell Germany Holdings GmbH, filed for voluntary reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. LyondellBasell is one of our major suppliers of raw materials and also operates our plants at Berre, France and Wesseling, Germany. The bankruptcy of LyondellBasell and any resulting restructuring of LyondellBasell’s operations may adversely affect LyondellBasell’s ability to provide services to us. To date, our operations have not been negatively impacted. However, we cannot predict the effect, if any, that LyondellBasell’s bankruptcy will ultimately have upon our business in general, or our relationship with LyondellBasell in particular. Under the terms of the above agreements, either party is permitted to terminate the applicable agreement in a variety of situations. Should LyondellBasell fail to provide these services or should any operating agreement be terminated, we would be forced to obtain these services from third parties or provide them ourselves. Similarly, if in connection with or independent from the termination of an operating agreement, LyondellBasell terminates a facility lease, we would be forced to relocate our manufacturing facility. From time to time, as part of our ongoing business operations, we discuss potential changes in the terms of our various agreements with LyondellBasell, based upon changes in market conditions or other factors. Any agreed changes to any of these contractual arrangements are not binding until the execution of formal documentation. The failure of LyondellBasell to perform its obligations under, or the termination of, any of these contracts could adversely affect our operations and, depending on market conditions at the time of any such termination, we may not be able to enter into substitute arrangements in a timely manner, or on terms as favorable to us. Under certain of these agreements, we are required to indemnify LyondellBasell in certain circumstances, including in certain circumstances for loss and damages resulting from LyondellBasell’s negligence in performing their obligations. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The failure of our raw materials suppliers to perform their obligations under long-term supply agreements, or our inability to replace or renew these agreements when they expire, could increase our cost for these materials, interrupt production or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. Our manufacturing processes use three primary raw materials: styrene, butadiene and isoprene. We use styrene in the production of almost all of our polymer products. We use butadiene in the production of SBS (styrene-butadiene-styrene) grades of USBCs and SEBS (styrene-ethylene-butylene-styrene) grades of HSBCs. We use isoprene in the production of SIS (styrene-isoprene-styrene) grades of USBCs, SEPS (styrene-ethylene-propylene-styrene) grades of HSBCs and polyisoprene rubber, or IR. We have entered into long-term supply agreements with Shell Chemicals, LyondellBasell and others to supply our raw material needs in the United States and Europe. As these contracts expire, we may be unable to renew these contracts or obtain new long-term supply agreements on terms favorable to us, which may significantly impact our operations. Isoprene is primarily produced and consumed, by manufacturers, captively for the production of IR, which is primarily used in the manufacture of rubber tires. As a result, there is limited non-captive isoprene available for purchase in the markets in which we operate. Future isoprene requirements for our IR products will be met by our overall isoprene sourcing strategies. We may not be able to obtain isoprene required for our operations on terms favorable to us or at all. Our U.S. butadiene supply agreement with Shell Chemicals expired as of April 30, 2009. We currently access butadiene at competitive rates, recently entered into a butadiene supply contract with a new supplier for 2010 and are engaged in efforts with several other suppliers to purchase ongoing and continuing supplies of butadiene. If we are unable to enter into agreements with alternative suppliers, we may not be able to meet our U.S. butadiene supply requirements in a timely manner or on favorable terms. In addition, most of our long-term contracts contain provisions that allow our suppliers to limit the amount of raw materials shipped to us below the contracted amount in certain circumstances. During 2009, Shell Chemicals and other butadiene producers had limited supply at times due to raw material shortages and operational problems, and we have satisfied our butadiene needs by supplementing with spot market purchases. If we are required to obtain alternate sources for raw materials because Shell Chemicals or any other supplier is unwilling or unable to perform under raw material supply agreements or if a supplier terminates its agreements with us, we may not be able to obtain these raw materials from alternative suppliers in a timely manner or be able to enter into long-term supply agreements on terms as favorable to us. A lack of availability of raw materials could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. If the availability of isoprene is limited, we may be unable to produce some of our products in quantities demanded by our customers, which could have an adverse effect on our sales of products requiring isoprene. Isoprene is not widely available, and the few isoprene producers tend to use their production for captive manufacturing purposes or sell only limited quantities into the world chemicals market. The major producers of isoprene are Goodyear, Shell Chemicals, Nippon Zeon, Braskem, several Chinese producers and various Russian manufacturers. Currently, we source our isoprene requirements for the United States and Europe from a portfolio of suppliers. In Japan, we obtain the majority of our isoprene requirements from JSR Corporation, or JSR, on a commercial supply basis and from alternative suppliers as needed. In Brazil, isoprene is obtained from a local third party supplier. These suppliers may not be able to meet our isoprene requirements, and we may not be able to obtain substitute supplies of isoprene from alternative suppliers in a timely manner or on favorable terms. Because there is limited non-captive isoprene availability, the market for isoprene is thin and prices are particularly volatile. Prices for isoprene are determined by the supply and prices of natural and synthetic rubber, crude oil and natural gas prices and existing supply and demand in the market. Market prices for isoprene increased significantly during the second half of 2008 as energy prices peaked in the third quarter. Following the collapse of energy prices in late 2008, isoprene pricing declined in the first quarter of 2009, increased during the second quarter of 2009, stabilized then increased again in the fourth quarter of 2009. 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements A significant factor contributing to higher prices was the extreme tightness in the market caused by operational problems of some key producers and reduced availability of crude C5 inputs for the extraction units. Although improved producer operation mitigated this risk in 2008, weak ethylene demand and light (ethane versus naphtha) ethylene inputs have limited isoprene production for some of the suppliers. In addition to this limit due to ethylene inputs, operational problems could return in the future. A lack of availability of isoprene could have an adverse effect on our results of operations if we are unable to produce products containing isoprene. If the availability of butadiene is limited, we may be unable to produce some of our products in quantities demanded by our customers, which could have an adverse effect on plant utilization and our sales of products requiring butadiene. The North American market is structurally short of butadiene and has relied on imports of crude C4 and/or butadiene to balance demand. Historically, the European market has been better balanced and provided exports to North America. Currently, our butadiene requirements in the United States are satisfied by several supplier’s, and LyondellBasell is our major butadiene supplier in Europe. In January 2009, the U.S. operations of LyondellBasell along with one of its European holding companies, Basell Germany Holdings GmbH, filed for voluntary reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. To date the U.S. bankruptcy has not negatively impacted our supply of butadiene in Europe. The quantity of butadiene available in any one region is dependent on the cracking inputs of olefins plants, ethylene demand, inter-regional demand for butadiene and demand for other oil derivatives. Suppliers may not be able to meet our butadiene requirements, and we may not be able to obtain substitute supplies of butadiene from alternative suppliers in a timely manner or on favorable terms. Increases in the costs of our raw materials could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations if those costs cannot be passed onto our customers. Our results of operations are directly affected by the cost of our raw materials. Our three principal raw materials (styrene, butadiene and isoprene) together represented approximately 43% of our total cost of goods sold in 2009. As a result of the significant portion of our cost of goods sold represented by these three monomers, our gross profit and margins could be adversely affected by changes in the cost of these raw materials if we are unable to pass the increases on to our customers. Our end-use markets are highly competitive, and we may lose market share to other producers of styrenic block copolymers or to producers of other products that can be substituted for our products. Our industry is highly competitive and we face significant competition from large international producers, as well as from smaller regional competitors. Our competitors may improve their competitive position in our core end-use markets by successfully introducing new products, improving their manufacturing processes or expanding their capacity or manufacturing facilities. If we are unable to keep pace with our competitors’ product and manufacturing process innovations, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our most significant competitors are Asahi Chemical, Chi Mei, Dexco Polymers, Dynasol Elastomers, Korea Kumho P.C., Kuraray Company, Lee Chang Yung, LG Chemical, Polimeri Europa, Sinopec, Taiwan Synthetic Rubber Corporation and Zeon Corporation. Kuraray Company, Dynasol Elastomers, Korea Kumho P.C. and Sinopec have all expanded HSBC capacity over the last 3 years. Several competitors, including Dynasol, Lee Chang Yung and Sinopec, have expanded USBC capacity over the last 3 years. In addition, competition between styrenic block copolymers and other products within the end-use markets in which we compete is intense. Increased competition from existing or newly developed non-SBC products may reduce demand for our products in the future and our customers may decide on alternate sources to meet their requirements. • In the Advanced Materials end-use market, our products compete against a wide variety of chemical and non-chemical alternatives, including thermoplastic vulcanizates, ethylene propylene diene 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements monomer rubber, known as EPDM, thermoplastic polyolefin elastomers and thermoplastic polyurethanes, known as TPUs. The choice between these materials is influenced by performance characteristics, ease of use, desired aesthetics and total end-product cost. In addition, competing materials include spandex, natural rubber, polyvinyl chloride polymers and compounds, polyolefins, polyethylene terephthalate, known as PET, nylon and polycarbonate, based on performance, ease of use, desired aesthetics and total end-product cost. • In the Adhesives, Sealants and Coatings end-use market, SBC products primarily compete with acrylics, silicones, solvent-based rubber systems and thermoplastic polyolefin elastomers. The choice between these materials is influenced by bond strength, specific adhesion, consistent performance to specification, processing speed, hot-melt application, resistance to water and total end-product cost. • In the Paving and Roofing end-use market, our products primarily compete with atactic polypropylene, styrene butadiene rubber and unmodified asphalts. The choice between these materials is influenced by total end-product performance, cost and ease of use. If we are unable to successfully compete with other producers of styrenic block copolymers or if other products can be successfully substituted for our products, our sales may decline. If we are not able to continue the technological innovation and successful commercial introduction of new products, our customers may turn to other producers to meet their requirements. Our industry and the end-use markets into which we sell our products experience periodic technological change and ongoing product improvements. In addition, our customers may introduce new generations of their own products or require new technological and increased performance specifications that would require us to develop customized products. Innovation or other changes in our customers’ product performance requirements may also adversely affect the demand for our products. Our future growth will depend on our ability to gauge the direction of the commercial and technological progress in all key end-use markets, and upon our ability to successfully develop, manufacture and market products in such changing end-use markets. We need to continue to identify, develop and market innovative products on a timely basis to replace existing products in order to maintain our profit margins and our competitive position. We may not be successful in developing new products and technology that successfully compete with such materials and our customers may not accept any of our new products. If we fail to keep pace with evolving technological innovations or fail to modify our products in response to our customers’ needs, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of reduced sales of our products. Our business relies on intellectual property and other proprietary information and our failure to protect our rights could harm our competitive advantages with respect to the manufacturing of some of our products. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to protect and preserve our intellectual property and other proprietary information of our business. However, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property and other proprietary information without our authorization or independently developing intellectual property and other proprietary information that is similar to ours, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our proprietary rights to the same degree as in the United States. The use of our intellectual property and other proprietary information by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed, cause us to lose sales or otherwise harm our business. If it becomes necessary for us to litigate to protect these rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail. In addition, we acquired a significant number of patents from Shell Chemicals. Pursuant to the agreements with Shell Chemicals relating to their contribution of these patents to us and our ownership of these patents, Shell Chemicals retained for itself fully-transferable and exclusive licenses to their use outside of the elastomers business, as well as fully-transferable non-exclusive licenses within the field of elastomers for certain limited 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements uses in non-competing activities. Shell Chemicals is permitted to sublicense these rights. Shell Chemicals also retains the right to enforce these patents outside the elastomers field and recover any damages resulting from these actions. Any patents, issued or applied for, may not provide us with any competitive advantage and may be challenged by third parties. Our competitors also may attempt to design around our patents or copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property and other proprietary information. Moreover, our competitors may already hold or have applied for patents in the United States or abroad that, if enforced or issued, could possibly prevail over our patent rights or otherwise limit our ability to manufacture or sell one or more of our products in the United States or abroad. From time to time, we oppose the issuance of patent applications in the United States and other jurisdictions that we consider overbroad or otherwise invalid in order to maintain the necessary freedom to operate fully in our various business lines without the risk of being sued for patent infringement. In general, competitors or other parties may, from time to time, assert issued patents or other intellectual property rights against us. If we are legally determined, at some future date, to infringe or violate the intellectual property rights of another party, we may have to pay damages, stop the infringing use, or attempt to obtain a license agreement with the owner of such intellectual property. With respect to our pending patent applications, we may not be successful in securing patents for these claims. Our failure to secure these patents may limit our ability to protect inventions that these applications were intended to cover. In addition, the expiration of a patent can result in increased competition with consequent erosion of profit margins. It is our policy to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our unpatented proprietary manufacturing expertise, continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets, but our confidentiality agreements could be breached or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or proprietary manufacturing expertise. Adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. Violations by others of our confidentiality agreements and the loss of employees who have specialized knowledge and expertise could harm our competitive position and cause our sales and operating results to decline as a result of increased competition. In addition, others may obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or other access by legal means. We have registered and applied for certain service marks and trademarks, and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional service marks and trademarks, as appropriate. The applicable governmental authorities may not approve our pending applications. A failure to obtain trademark registrations in the United States and in other countries could limit our ability to obtain and retain our trademarks and impede our marketing efforts in those jurisdictions. Moreover, third parties may seek to oppose our applications or otherwise challenge the resulting registrations. In the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our products, which could result in loss of brand recognition and could require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands. The failure of our patents, trademarks or confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary information, including our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets, trade names and proprietary manufacturing expertise, methods and compounds, could have a material adverse effect on our competitive advantages over other producers. Our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to incur unexpected costs or prevent us from selling our products. We continually seek to improve our business processes and develop new products and applications. Many of our competitors have a substantial amount of intellectual property that we must continually monitor to avoid infringement. Although it is our policy and intention not to infringe valid patents, we cannot guarantee that our processes and products do not and will not infringe issued patents (whether present or future) or other intellectual property rights belonging to others, including, without limitation, situations in which our products, processes or technologies may be covered by patent applications filed by other parties in the United States or abroad. From 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements time to time, we oppose patent applications that we consider overbroad or otherwise invalid in order to maintain the necessary freedom to operate fully in our various business lines without the risk of being sued for patent infringement. If, however, patents are subsequently issued on any such applications by other parties, or if patents belonging to others already exist that cover our products, processes or technologies, we could, possibly, be liable for infringement or have to take other remedial or curative actions to continue our manufacturing and sales activities with respect to one or more products. We may also be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us or our licensees in connection with their use of our products. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert our management’s attention from operating our business. If we were to discover that our processes, technologies or products infringe the valid intellectual property rights of others, we might need to obtain licenses from these parties or substantially re-engineer our products in order to avoid infringement. We may not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to re-engineer our products successfully. Moreover, if we are sued for infringement and lose, we could be required to pay substantial damages and/or be enjoined from using or selling the infringing products or technology. Any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products. Our business is subject to seasonality that may affect our quarterly operating results and impact the market price of our common stock. Seasonal changes and weather conditions typically affect the Paving and Roofing end-use market. In particular, sales volumes for paving products generally rise in the warmer months and generally decline during the colder months of fall and winter. Roofing product sales volumes tend to be more consistent throughout the year. Abnormally cold or wet seasons may cause reduced purchases from our Paving and Roofing customers. However, because seasonal weather patterns are difficult to predict, we cannot accurately estimate fluctuations in our quarterly Paving and Roofing sales in any given year. If Paving and Roofing results cause our operating results to fall below the periodic expectations of financial analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock may decline. Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the senior secured credit facility and the senior subordinated notes. We have substantial indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, our total indebtedness was $385.0 million. Our indebtedness consists principally of the senior secured credit facility, which had $222.0 million outstanding as of December 31, 2009, and the 8.125% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014, or the senior subordinated notes, which had $163.0 million outstanding as of December 31, 2009. The senior secured credit facility is payable in consecutive equal quarterly installments in an aggregate annual amount equal to 1.0% of the original principal amount and with the remaining balance payable in four equal quarterly installments commencing on September 30, 2012 and ending on May 12, 2013. The senior subordinated notes mature on January 14, 2014. In addition, subject to restrictions in the senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing the senior subordinated notes, Kraton and its subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness. As a result of our substantial indebtedness: • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other general corporate purposes may be impaired; • we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal of and interest on our indebtedness which will reduce the funds available to us for other purposes; • we are more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse industry conditions; • our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures, as compared to our competitors, may be compromised; and • our ability to borrow additional funds or to refinance indebtedness may be limited. 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The ability for us to pay principal of and interest on indebtedness, fund working capital, and make anticipated capital expenditures depends on our future performance, which is subject to general economic conditions and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available under the senior secured revolving credit facility to fund liquidity needs in an amount sufficient to enable us to service indebtedness. Furthermore, if we decide to undertake additional investments in existing or new facilities, this will likely require additional capital, and there can be no assurance that this capital will be available. Our debt instruments, including the senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing the senior subordinated notes, impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. The senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing the senior subordinated notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability, the ability of Kraton and the ability of its subsidiaries to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments and investments; • create liens or other encumbrances; and • transfer or sell certain assets or merge or consolidate with another entity. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise restrict corporate activities. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and any material deviations from our forecasts could require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants, alternative sources of financing or reductions in expenditures. We may not be able to obtain such waivers, amendments or alternative financings, or if we obtain them, they may not be on terms acceptable to us. A deterioration in our results of operations may cause us not to be in compliance with the financial covenants in the senior secured credit facility. Under the terms of the senior secured credit facility, as amended, we are subject to certain financial covenants, including maintenance of a minimum interest rate coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio. Our ability to continue to comply with the financial ratios is subject to changes in our results of operations and financial position including but not limited to: the prices for raw materials; the sales of products; our ability to successfully implement selected selling price increases; our ability to reduce costs; and our availability of cash to reduce existing indebtedness. We generated a net loss of $0.3 million, net income of $28.4 million and a net loss of $43.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Furthermore, our earnings were insufficient to cover our fixed charges for the year ended December 31, 2007 by approximately $37.6 million. As of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with the applicable financial ratios in the senior secured credit facility. We may not be able to maintain these ratios or avail ourselves of the equity cure provisions of the senior secured credit facility in future periods. A breach of any of the covenants or restrictions contained in any of our existing or future financing agreements and instruments, including our inability to comply with the required financial covenants in the senior secured credit facility, could result in an event of default under those agreements. Such a default could allow the lenders under our financing agreements to discontinue lending, to accelerate the related debt and to declare all borrowings outstanding thereunder to be due and payable. In addition, the lenders could terminate any commitments they had made to supply us with further funds. We may be liable for damages based on product liability claims brought against our customers in our end-use markets. Many of our products provide critical performance attributes to our customers’ products that are sold to consumers who could potentially bring product liability suits in which we could be named as a defendant. The 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements sale of these products involves the risk of product liability claims. If a person were to bring a product liability suit against one of our customers, this customer may attempt to seek contribution from us. A person may also bring a product liability claim directly against us. A successful product liability claim or series of claims against us in excess of our insurance coverage for payments, for which we are not otherwise indemnified, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. While we endeavor to protect ourselves from such claims and exposures in our contractual negotiations, there can be no assurance that our efforts in this regard will ultimately protect us from any such claims. As a global business, we are exposed to local business risks in different countries, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We have significant operations in foreign countries, including manufacturing facilities, research and development facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations. Currently, we operate, or others operate on our behalf, facilities in Brazil, Germany, France and Japan, in addition to our operations in the United States. Our offshore operations are subject to risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries, including, but not necessarily limited to: • new and different legal and regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions; • export duties or import quotas; • domestic and foreign customs and tariffs or other trade barriers; • potential staffing difficulties and labor disputes; • managing and obtaining support and distribution for local operations; • increased costs of transportation or shipping; • credit risk and financial conditions of local customers and distributors; • potential difficulties in protecting intellectual property; • risk of nationalization of private enterprises by foreign governments; • potential imposition of restrictions on investments; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; • foreign currency exchange restrictions and fluctuations; and • local political and social conditions, including the possibility of hyperinflationary conditions and political instability in certain countries. We may not be successful in developing and implementing policies and strategies to address the foregoing factors in a timely and effective manner at each location where we do business. Consequently, the occurrence of one or more of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations or upon our financial condition and results of operations. Chemical manufacturing is inherently hazardous, which could result in accidents that disrupt our operations or expose us to significant losses or liabilities. The hazards associated with chemical manufacturing and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes exist in our operations and the operations of other occupants with whom we share manufacturing sites. These hazards could lead to an interruption or suspension of operations and have an adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility or on us as a whole. These potential risks include, but are not necessarily limited to: • pipeline and storage tank leaks and ruptures; • explosions and fires; 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • inclement weather and natural disasters; • terrorist attacks; • mechanical failure; and • chemical spills and other discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases. These hazards may result in personal injury and loss of life, damage to property and contamination of the environment, which may result in a suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties, including governmental fines, expenses for remediation and claims brought by governmental entities or third parties. The loss or shutdown of operations over an extended period at our Belpre facility, which is our largest manufacturing facility, or any of our other major operating facilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance of the types and in the amounts that we believe are customary for the industry, we are not fully insured against all potential hazards incidental to our business. Regulation of our employees’ exposure to butadiene could require material expenditures or changes in our operations. Butadiene is a known carcinogen in laboratory animals at high doses and is being studied for its potential adverse health effects. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration limits the permissible employee exposure to butadiene. Future studies on the health effects of butadiene may result in additional regulations or new regulations in Europe that further restrict or prohibit the use of, and exposure to, butadiene. Additional regulation of butadiene could require us to change our operations, and these changes could affect the quality of our products and materially increase our costs. Compliance with extensive environmental, health and safety laws could require material expenditures, changes in our operations or site remediation. Materials such as styrene, butadiene and isoprene, which are used in the manufacture of our products, can represent potentially significant health and safety concerns. Our products are also used in a variety of end-uses that have specific regulatory requirements such as those relating to products that have contact with food or medical end-uses. We use large quantities of hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in our manufacturing operations. Consequently, our operations are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations at both the national and local level in multiple jurisdictions. Many of these laws and regulations have become more stringent over time and the costs of compliance with these requirements may increase, including costs associated with any necessary capital investments. In addition, our production facilities require operating permits that are subject to renewal and, in some circumstances, revocation. The necessary permits may not be issued or continue in effect, and any issued permits may contain significant new requirements. The nature of the chemical industry exposes us to risks of liability due to the use, production, management, storage, transportation and sale of materials that are heavily regulated or hazardous and can cause contamination or personal injury or damage if released into the environment. We operate coal-burning boilers at our facility in the United States that could be subject to legislation and regulation affecting the emissions of greenhouse gases. While the impact of any such legislation or regulation is currently speculative, any such legislation or regulation, if enacted, may have an adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. We have health and safety management programs in place to help assure compliance with applicable regulatory requirements and with internal policies and procedures, as appropriate. Each facility has developed and implemented specific critical occupational health, safety, environmental and loss control programs. 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Compliance with environmental laws generally increases the costs of transportation and storage of raw materials and finished products, as well as the costs of storage and disposal of wastes. We may incur substantial costs, including fines, damages, criminal or civil sanctions and remediation costs, or experience interruptions in our operations for violations arising under these laws or permit requirements. Management at our facility at Belpre, Ohio has identified several occupied buildings that are closer to the manufacturing process than would be consistent with industry guidelines required by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. A $7.6 million project is underway to relocate these facilities, and this cost is included in our projected future capital expenditures. However, such costs may vary with changes in regulations or risk management strategy. This project is expected to be completed by the end of 2010. We may be subject to losses due to lawsuits arising out of environmental damage or personal injuries associated with chemical manufacturing. We face the risk that individuals could, in the future, seek damages for personal injury due to exposure to chemicals at our facilities or to chemicals otherwise owned or controlled by us. We may be subject to future claims with respect to workplace exposure, workers’ compensation and other matters that are filed after the date of our acquisition of Shell Chemicals’ elastomers business. While Shell Chemicals has agreed to indemnify us for certain claims brought with respect to matters occurring before our separation from Shell Chemicals in February 2001, those indemnity obligations are subject to limitations, and we cannot be certain that those indemnities will be sufficient to satisfy claims against us. In addition, we face the risk that future claims would fall outside of the scope of the indemnity due either to the limitations on the indemnity or to their arising from events and circumstances occurring after February 2001. Some environmental laws could impose on us the entire cost of clean-up of contamination present at a facility even though we did not cause the contamination. These laws often identify the site owner as one of the parties that can be jointly and severally liable for on-site remediation, regardless of fault or whether the original activity was legal at the time it occurred. For example, our Belpre, Ohio facility is the subject of a required remediation program to clean up past contamination at the site and at an adjacent creek and we are a party to that site clean-up order. While Shell Chemicals has posted financial assurance of $5.2 million for this program and has taken the lead in implementing the program, we may incur costs and be required to take action under this program. Similarly, the Shell Chemicals indemnity for remediation at the Belpre facility may not cover all claims that might be brought against us. Our Paulinia, Brazil facility also has on-site contamination resulting from past operations of Shell Chemicals. The indemnity from Shell Chemicals covers claims related to certain specified areas within the plant, and we may be required to undertake and pay for remediation of these and other areas. The indemnity coverage from Shell Chemicals is limited in time and amount and we cannot rely upon it to cover possible future claims for on-site contamination separate from the areas specified in the indemnity. The Paulinia facility is also adjacent to a former Shell Chemicals site where we believe past manufacturing of hydrocarbons resulted in significant contamination of soil and groundwater and required relocation of nearby residents. It is our understanding that the Shell Chemicals portion of the site has changed ownership several times, which may impact financial responsibility for contamination on the site. While we are not aware of any significant contamination at our Paulinia facility, we could potentially be the subject of claims related to pesticide contamination and effects at some point in the future. In general, there is always the possibility that a third-party plaintiff or claimant, or governmental or regulatory authority, could seek to include us in an action or claim for damages, clean-up, or remediation pertaining to events or circumstances occurring or existing at one or more of our sites prior to the time of our ownership or occupation of the applicable site. In the event that any of these actions or claims were asserted against us, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 32 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Regulatory and statutory changes applicable to us or our customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We and many of the applications for the products in the end-use markets in which we sell our products are regulated by various national and local rules, laws and regulations. Changes in any of these areas could result in additional compliance costs, seizures, confiscations, recall or monetary fines, any of which could prevent or inhibit the development, distribution and sale of our products. For example, changes in environmental regulations restricting the use of disposable diapers could cause a decline in sales to producers of that product. In addition, we benefit from certain trade protections, including anti-dumping protection. If we were to lose these protections, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We are subject to customs, international trade, export control, antitrust, zoning and occupancy and labor and employment laws that could require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs. We are subject to numerous regulations, including customs and international trade laws, export control, antitrust laws and zoning and occupancy laws that regulate manufacturers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of our products, the operation of factories and warehouse facilities and our relationship with our customers, suppliers and competitors. If these regulations were to change or were violated by our management, employees, suppliers, buying agents or trading companies, the costs of certain goods could increase, or we could experience delays in shipments of our goods, be subject to fines or penalties, or suffer reputational harm, which could reduce demand for our products and hurt our business and negatively impact results of operations. In addition, changes in federal and state minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could negatively impact our profitability. Legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effects on our operations. We may be required to make significant expenditures or modify our business practices to comply with existing or future laws and regulations, which may increase our costs and materially limit our ability to operate our business. Our relationship with our employees could deteriorate, which could adversely affect our operations. As a manufacturing company, we rely on our employees and good relations with our employees to produce our products and maintain our production processes and productivity. As of December 31, 2009, we employed approximately 817 full-time employees. A significant number of our non-U.S. employees are subject to arrangements similar to collective bargaining arrangements. With respect to these employees, we may not be able to negotiate labor agreements on satisfactory terms, and actions by our employees may disrupt our business. Although we have historically maintained a good relationship with our employees, if these workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, our operations could be disrupted or we could experience higher labor costs. In addition, if our other employees were to become unionized, in particular our employees at our Belpre, Ohio facility, we could experience significant operating disruptions and higher ongoing labor costs, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition and results of operations. Because many of the personnel who operate our European facilities are employees of LyondellBasell, relations between LyondellBasell and its employees may also adversely affect our business and financial condition and results of operations. Loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could hurt our business and inhibit our ability to operate and grow successfully. Our success in the highly competitive markets in which we operate will continue to depend to a significant extent on our key employees. We are dependent on the expertise of our executive officers. Loss of the services of any of our executive officers could have an adverse effect on our prospects. We may not be able to retain our key employees or to recruit qualified individuals to join our company. The loss of key employees could result in high transition costs and could disrupt our operations. 33 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly impact our results of operations and may significantly affect the comparability of our results between financial periods. Our operations are conducted by subsidiaries in many countries. The results of the operations and the financial position of these subsidiaries are reported in the relevant foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. The main currencies to which we are exposed, besides the U.S. dollar, are the Euro, Japanese Yen and Brazilian Real. The exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. A depreciation of these currencies against the U.S. dollar will decrease the U.S. dollar equivalent of the amounts derived from these operations reported in our consolidated financial statements and an appreciation of these currencies will result in a corresponding increase in such amounts. Because many of our raw material costs are determined with respect to the U.S. dollar rather than these currencies, depreciation of these currencies may have an adverse effect on our profit margins or our reported results of operations. Conversely, to the extent that we are required to pay for goods or services in foreign currencies, the appreciation of such currencies against the U.S. dollar will tend to negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, currency fluctuations may affect the comparability of our results of operations between financial periods. We incur currency transaction risk whenever we enter into either a purchase or sale transaction using a currency other than the local currency of the transacting entity. Beginning in 2008, we began implementing hedging strategies to minimize our exposure to certain foreign currency fluctuations. Given the volatility of exchange rates, there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively manage our currency transaction risks or that any volatility in currency exchange rates will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers, and the loss of customers could adversely affect our sales and profitability. With some exceptions, our business is based primarily upon individual sales orders with our customers. As such, our customers could cease buying our products from us at any time, for any reason, with little or no recourse. If multiple customers elected not to purchase products from us, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. A decrease in the fair value of pension assets could materially increase future funding requirements of the pension plan. We sponsor a defined benefit pension plan. The total projected benefit obligation of our defined benefit pension plan exceeded the fair value of the plan assets by approximately $26.6 million at December 31, 2009. We contributed $4.2 million to the pension plan in 2009 and, based on the actuarial assumptions used in our consolidated financial statements, are forecasting contributions of approximately $3.2 million in calendar years 2010 and 2011, respectively. Among the key assumptions inherent in the actuarially calculated pension plan obligation and pension plan expense are the discount rate and the expected rate of return on plan assets. If interest rates and actual rates of return on invested plan assets were to decrease significantly, the pension plan obligation could increase materially. The size of future required pension contributions could result in us dedicating a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to making the contributions which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Concentration of ownership among our principal stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. TPG and JPMP together own approximately 64.6% of our common stock (approximately 62.7% after the exercise of the underwriters’ over-allotment option). Pursuant to a registration rights and shareholders’ agreement entered into by TPG, JPMP and the company, TPG and JPMP will each have the right to participate in certain dispositions by the other party. TPG and JPMP will also be restricted from transferring common stock 34 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements without the consent of the other party. Furthermore, each of TPG and JPMP will have the right to elect two directors to the board of directors of the company so long as it owns 10% or more of the outstanding common stock and one director so long as it owns 2% or more of the common stock. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statement for further discussion, “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions—Registration Rights and Shareholders’ Agreement.” TPG and JPMP together will be able to exercise control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions and will have significant control over our management and policies. The interests of these stockholders may not be consistent with the interests of other stockholders. This control may also have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers, delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in the best interests of our company. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which relate to business combinations with interested stockholders, do not apply to us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 