D. Risk factors. Risks relating to our business 9 If we do not manage our growth successfully, our growth and chances for continued profitability may slow or stop. We have expanded our operations rapidly during the last several years, and we plan to continue to expand with new seed products and distribution outlets. This expansion has created significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial personnel and other resources, particularly our need for working capital. Additional expansion in existing or new markets and new lines of business could strain these resources and increase our need for capital, which may result in cash flow shortages. Our personnel, systems, procedures, controls and existing space may not be adequate to support further expansion. We have a short operating history and are subject to the risks of any new enterprise, any one of which could limit growth and product and market development. Our short operating history makes it difficult to predict how our businesses will develop. Accordingly, we face all of the risks and uncertainties encountered by early-stage companies, such as: · uncertain growth in the market for, and uncertain market acceptance of, our products and services; · the evolving nature of the crop seed business in the PRC, where significant consolidation is likely to occur, leading to the formation of companies better able to compete with us than is currently the case; and · the risks of competition, technological change or evolving customer preferences could harm sales of our products or services. If we are not able to meet the challenges of building our businesses and managing our growth, the likely result will be slowed growth, lower margins, additional operational costs and lower income. The profitability of our businesses will decrease if we do not continue to find and market products considered valuable by Chinese farmers. The profitability of our seed business depends on recurring and sustained reorders. Reorder rates are inherently uncertain due to several factors, many of which are outside our control. These include changing customer preferences, competitive price pressures, failure to develop acceptable new products, development of higher quality products by competitors and general economic conditions. We are currently dependent on licensed seed products for the majority of our revenues, and if we lose the right to produce and sell licensed seeds, we will lose substantial revenues and suffer substantial losses. The revenue related to licensed hybrid seeds for, 2003, 2004 and 2005 was $23,155,319, $35,933,245, $24,314,206 respectively. Licensed hybrid seeds accounted for 100% of the total seed revenue in 2003, 98.97% of the total seed revenue in 2004, and 93.97% of the total seed revenue in 2005. There were no revenues related to internally developed proprietary hybrid seeds in 2002 and 2003. The amount of revenue related to internally developed proprietary hybrid seeds in 2004 was $375,929, which accounted for 1.03% of the total 2004 seed revenue, while the amount of revenue related to proprietary hybrid seeds in 2005 was $1,558,883, which accounted for 6.03% of the total 2005 seed revenue. We sell a majority of seeds developed and produced under our license agreements with the Corn Research Institute Li County, Hebei Province (now Shijiazhuang Liyu Technology Development Co., Ltd.) and the Henan Agricultural University, representing respectively 48.19% and 35.3% of sales in 2003, 58.64% and 13.2% of sales in 2004, and 49.79% and 16.42% of sales in 2005. If we are not able to develop and produce the licensed seed products or if the current license agreements are terminated, we will suffer a substantial loss of revenue and will suffer substantial business losses. Our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We or our licensors may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us or our licensors, may materially disrupt our business. We cannot be certain that our licensed or self-developed proprietary seed products do not or will not infringe upon intellectual property rights held by third parties. We or any of our licensors may become subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others. If we or our licensors are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be required to pay damages and be enjoined from using such intellectual property, and we may incur new or additional licensing fees if we wish to continue using the infringing products, or be forced to develop or license alternatives. In addition, we may incur substantial expenses in defending against these third party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. 10 Due to our size and short operating history, we substantially depend on a few key personnel who, if not retained, could cause declines in productivity and profitability and loss of strategic guidance, all of which would diminish the prospects of the company and value to investors. Due to our size and short operating history, our success depends to a large extent upon the continued service of a few executive officers and key employees, including: · Dr. Gengchen Han; · Yasheng Yang; and · Liang Yuan. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could have an adverse effect on us and our PRC Operating Companies, as each of these individuals played and continues to play a significant role in developing and executing our overall business plan and maintaining customer relationships and proprietary technology systems. While none of these key personnel is irreplaceable, the loss of the services of any of these individuals would be disruptive to our business. We believe that our overall future success depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial and marketing personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel on terms acceptable to them. Inadequate personnel will limit our growth, and will be seen as a detriment to our prospects, leading potentially to a loss in value for investors. If we do not comply with applicable government regulations, we may be prohibited from continuing some or all of our operations, resulting in a reduction of growth and ultimately market share due to loss of competitive position. Our revenue depends on receiving approval from the PRC government to market new seed hybrids that we are developing and will develop. In addition, there may be circumstances under which the approvals granted are subject to change without substantial advance notice, and it is possible that we could fail to obtain the approvals that we require to expand our business as we intend to do. The failure to obtain or to maintain such approvals would limit the number and quality of products that we would be able to offer. This reduction in product offerings would cause a reduction in the growth previously experienced and over time would result in loss of market share from the competitive pressures of seeds developed by others that would likely be better than our products. Our single business line of crop seed development and production does not permit us to spread our business risks among different business segments, such that a disruption in our seed production or the industry would hurt the company more immediately and directly. We operate mainly in the crop seed business. Without business line diversity, we will not be able to spread the risk of our operations. Therefore, our business opportunities, revenues and income could be more immediately and directly affected by disruptions from such things as drought and disease or widespread problems affecting the industry, such as the absence of farmer credit and payment disruptions and customer rejection of modified crop seeds. If there is a disruption as described above, our revenues and income will be reduced, and our business operations may have to be scaled back. Natural disasters could damage seed production, in which event we will suffer a loss of production and will suffer consequential losses of revenues, market disruption and reputation, and there is no agriculture insurance in the PRC to cover loss of seed crops. We produce our seeds using a network of approximately 10,000 farmers, which plant the crops and harvest the seeds for use as crop seeds for the next growing season. As a result, the source of supply for our seeds is subject to all of the risks associated with any agricultural enterprise, including widespread drought, pestilence or other natural disasters. While the use of such a large number of farmers provides some protection against a widespread failure of any particular crop, the majority of seed production farmers are located in just two provinces, making them subject to risks that are somewhat local in nature. We have attempted to manage this risk by obligating ourselves to pay the farmers who produce our seeds only for the quantity of seeds that they produce, thus limiting our expenses somewhat. We have also set up a storage system since 2003 attempting to manage this risk. However, in the event of a widespread failure of the seed crop, we would likely sustain substantial operating losses, due to both the fact that a significant portion of our expenses are fixed overhead and that the loss of a large portion of a seed crop would limit our revenues significantly. Although insurance to protect against such a risk is available in many jurisdictions, such insurance is not available in the PRC. 11 We rely on our network of approximately 10,000 farmers for production of our seeds, and although our relationship with those farmers has been stable in the past, there are no assurances that those relationships will remain stable in the future, the result of which could limit the amount of seed products available to us for sale to customers and customer loyalty. We believe we maintain a favorable relationship with the farmers in our seed production network by paying them a higher price for their crop seeds than they would receive by producing other crops for sale in the market. In addition, the large number of farmers on which we rely to produce crop seeds means that no one or even several of them can, acting independently, adversely and materially affect our business. However, events such as a shift in pricing caused by an increase in the value of food crops other than seed crops, increase in land prices or competition could disrupt the chain of supply. Any of these disruptions could limit the supply of seeds that we obtain, adversely affecting supply and thereby lowering revenues from the lack of product to sell. Such disruption could also damage distributor relationships and farmer loyalty to the brand if we cannot supply the quantity of seed expected from them. The corn seed prices and sales volumes may decrease in any given year with a corresponding reduction in sales, margins and profitability. During most of our brief existence, the corn seed market has been stable in the PRC, but in the past it was marked by periods of instability. In the future there may be periods of instability during which commodity prices and sales volume might fluctuate greatly. Commodities can be affected by general economic conditions, weather, disease and aspects of demand such as financing, competition and trade restrictions. Although we have followed a branded product strategy to differentiate our products from those of other crop seed producers, the crop seed market continues to behave as a commodity market. As a result, the price that we are able to demand for our seeds is somewhat dependent on the size of the supply of our seeds and the seeds of other producers. Therefore, the potential exists for fluctuation in supply, and consequently in price, in our own markets, even in the absence of significant external events that might cause volatility. As a result, the level of revenues that we receive in any given year is subject to change. Because decisions are made regarding the level of production prior to the time that the volume of orders and the market price for those orders is known, it is possible that we will have too much or not enough product available, each with the attendant impact on revenues, margins and profitability. Our revenues depend on the ability of a large number of small farmers buying seed for cash because financing for purchases of this size and type is not available; therefore, if a substantial number of our customers become unable to pay for seed, our sales, revenues and profitability will decline. We have a large and diversified customer base, with no single customer representing more than 1% of our revenues. The large customer base provides some protection against the loss of revenues due to the inability of a significant number of our customers paying for seed that has been previously ordered. However, the unavailability of credit for farmers in the PRC reduces the ability of those farmers to withstand the effects of difficult economic times. The lack of credit could prevent them from fulfilling their purchasing commitments with the result that our revenues and profitability would be reduced. Competition, both domestic and foreign, may slow or reverse our recent rapid growth, which could result in a decrease in margins and cause an operating loss. Competition may develop from consolidation within the Chinese seed industry and privatization of seed producers that are extensions of the county governments. A number of companies are developing using more efficient business models. Competition may develop from foreign seed producers who have high-quality products. As competition develops, we will expect our recent rapid growth to slow and will probably experience a reduction in margins. As marketing expenses increase, we may experience operating losses. 12 Technological change in creating seed hybrids could adversely affect our business, causing a loss in business opportunities, market share and revenues. We currently rely upon traditional methods of creating crop seed hybrids to develop new products. While these methods are highly effective, there has been an increase in the development of genetically modified agricultural products to increase the quality and quantity of crop yields. This new genetic technology is controversial, and it has not been widely accepted in many regions of the world, including the PRC. However, as the ability to use genetic modification to produce seeds that are superior to or less costly than those that we produce by traditional methods increases, the threat of competition from this source becomes more realistic. A number of factors that are difficult to predict, such as a shift among farmer and consumer attitudes making these kinds of products more or less acceptable, affect the extent to which this potential threat could affect our business prospects. We are taking steps to respond to the competition risk presented by genetically modified agricultural products. We have commenced our own research and development efforts for genetically modified seeds, and we have entered into an agreement with a research institution in the PRC working on genetic modifications that give us the right to market the seeds they develop. However, there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful in producing improved seed varieties that are able to compete with those produced by other genetically-modified seed producers. If we do not comply with PRC regulations, we may not be able to operate our business or we may be fined, causing an adverse effect on our business, operations and revenues. The PRC has many regulations relating to the seed business, including obtaining and maintaining operating licenses. Seed products also must be licensed and undergo a stringent review process before they may be sold in the PRC. Although we currently have all the necessary licenses, and we believe we are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations for our business, if we are not in compliance then we may be fined or lose the ability to sell a particular seed or operate our business altogether. If the fines are substantial or the ability to sell or operate is withdrawn, this will result in additional costs or the loss of revenues and perhaps our ability to continue as a business. We may become a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. To be confirmed Depending upon the value of our shares and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, by the United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we are classified as a “PFIC” in any taxable year in which you hold our shares and you are a U.S. investor, you would generally be taxed at higher ordinary income, rather than lower capital gain rates, if you dispose of shares at a gain in a later year, even if we are not a PFIC in that year. In addition, a portion of the tax imposed on your gain would be increased by an interest charge. Moreover, if we were classified as a PFIC in any taxable year, you would not be able to benefit from any preferential tax rate with respect to any dividend distribution that you may receive from us in that year or in the following year. Finally, you would also be subject to special U.S. tax reporting requirements. We believe that we were not a PFIC for the taxable year 2005. However, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for the taxable year 2006 and/or later taxable years, as PFIC status is re-tested each year and depends on the facts in such year. For example, we would be a PFIC for the taxable year 2006 if the sum of our average market capitalization, which is our share price multiplied by the total amount of our outstanding shares, and our liabilities over that taxable year is not more than twice the value of our cash, cash equivalents, and other assets that are readily converted into cash. We could also be a PFIC for any taxable year if the gross income that we and our subsidiaries earn from investing cash exceeds the immediate capital needs of our active business is substantial in comparison with the gross income from our business operations. While we will continue to examine our results under the PFIC tests, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for any future taxable year. For more information on the U.S. tax consequences to you that would result from our classification as a PFIC please see Item 10E, “Additional Information—Taxation — United States federal income taxation — U.S. Holders — Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 13 Any diversion of management’s attention to matters related to acquisitions or any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with integrating acquired operations may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and/or financial condition. We have recently completed several acquisitions involving seed companies. These transactions are designed to contribute to our long-term growth. We must fit such acquisitions into our growth strategies to generate sufficient value to justify their cost. Acquisitions also present other challenges, including geographical coordination, personnel integration and retention of key management personnel, systems integration and the reconciliation of corporate cultures. Those operations could divert management’s attention from our business or cause a temporary interruption of or loss of momentum in our business and the loss of key personnel from the acquired companies. Our business benefits from certain PRC government incentives. Expiration of, or changes to, these incentives could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The PRC government has provided various incentives to high-technology companies in order to encourage development of the high-technology industry. Such incentives include reduced tax rates and other measures. For example, Henan Origin is currently entitled to a preferential tax rate of 15% as a high technology company. Origin Biotechnology is also entitled to a preferential tax rate of 15% as a high technology company, and was exempted from income tax in 2005. As these tax benefits expire, the effective tax rate will increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, repeal of privileges granted by the Chinese government to the seed industry, such as subsidies, could adversely affect our earnings as well. Efforts to protect our intellectual property rights and to defend against claims against us can increase our costs and will not always succeed; any failures could adversely affect sales and profitability or restrict our ability to do business. Intellectual property rights are crucial to our business. We endeavor to obtain and protect our intellectual property rights where our products are produced. However, we may be unable to obtain protection for our intellectual property. Even if protection is obtained, competitors, growers, or others in the chain of commerce may raise legal challenges to our rights or illegally infringe on our rights, including through means that may be difficult to prevent or detect. In addition, because of the rapid pace of technological change, and the confidentiality of patent applications in some jurisdictions, competitors may be issued patents from applications that were unknown to us prior to issuance. These patents could reduce the value of our commercial or pipeline products or, to the extent they cover key technologies on which we have unknowingly relied, require that we seek to obtain licenses or cease using the technology, no matter how valuable to our business. We cannot assure you we would be able to obtain such a license on acceptable terms. The extent to which we succeed or fail in our efforts to protect our intellectual property will affect our costs, sales and other results of operations. Our ability to estimate growers’ future needs, and match our production and the level of product at our distributors to those needs, has a significant effect on our sales. Growers’ decisions are affected by market, economic and weather conditions that are not known in advance. Failure to provide distributors with enough inventory of our products will reduce our current sales. However, high product inventory levels at our distributors may reduce sales in future periods, as those distributor inventories are worked down. In addition, inadequate distributor liquidity could affect distributors’ ability to pay for our products and, therefore, affect our sales or our ability to collect on our receivables. Deficient railway transportation capacity in the Northwestern China may result in the increase of our transportation related costs and thus adversely affect our business. Our major production base is located at Linze County, Gansu Province, China. Seeds produced there are transported throughout China each year by means of railway, which is currently the most cost efficient way. With economic development and frequent flow of material, the North-West railway is obviously deficient in term of its transportation capability. As our volume of freight increases year by year, the seeds may have to be transported by other vehicles if the railway cannot guarantee the increasingly larger volume of freight. The production costs thus will grow accordingly with the increase of transportation costs, which will adversely affect our business. 14 There are difficulties in managing the storage system, which may result in damage of seeds in storage and operating losses. There is a high risk for seed storage, due to difficulty in management of moisture, temperature, humidity of storage condition, any failure of which may result in damage of seeds in store and operating losses. Seasonal Sales changes of our main products result in cyclical changes of cash flow and operating activities, which may cause difficulties in our capital chain and have a material and adverse effect on our business operations. The sales season of our main products lasts from September to June of the following year, and we essentially basically do not have any sales revenue from July to August, which results in cyclical changes of our cash flow and operating activities. From July to August in each year, our cash flow will be very limited, so that any failure in utilizing capital during this period may cause difficulties in our capital chain, and therefore may have a material and adverse effect on our business operations. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud or restatement of previously reported financial results, and investor confidence and the market price of our shares may be adversely impacted. We will become subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006, which requires us set out a management report containing an assessment on our internal controls over financial reporting in our annual report. It also requires an independent registered public accounting firm attest to and report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we cannot implement the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our independent auditors may not be able to provide a written attestation as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission. It could also result in the loss of investor confidence in us, in particular the reliability of financial statements, which in turn could harm the our business and negatively affect the market price of our shares. Furthermore, we may be required to incur significant costs for compliance with Section 404, and thereby increase our costs relative to our revenues and decreasing our operating margins. We have limited business insurance coverage in China. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. In particular, PRC insurance companies do not offer extensive business insurance products. As a result, we do not have any business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. Risks relating to organization of our business and our structure Three of the PRC Operating Companies will be controlled subsidiaries through stock consignment agreements rather than by direct ownership of shares, the terms of which may have to be enforced, which would require us to incur extra costs, create uncertainty as to ownership of the operating businesses involved and the possible loss of rights. Under PRC law, foreign entities are not currently permitted to own more than 49% of a seed production company. In order to address those restrictions, We, a non-Chinese entity that cannot directly own the shares of three of the PRC Operating Companies, will instead hold the right to control such shares in all respects, including voting, dividends, nomination of directors, and corporate management, through stock consignment agreements executed by the owners of the stock of these companies. When the shares can be transferred, they will be transferred to us for no additional consideration. There is the risk, however, that a consigning stockholder will not fulfill its obligations under the stock consignment agreement. In that event, we may need to resort to PRC courts to have our rights under the agreements enforced. Such enforcement will cause us to incur legal expenses. In addition, while a case is pending there will be uncertainty regarding our rights as to the PRC Operating Companies involved. In addition, a PRC court may decide not to enforce the agreements in part or at all. To the extent these agreements are neither observed nor enforced as intended, the PRC Operating Companies will not be controlled by us as intended, which will affect our value and restrict our ability to obtain the income and other rights of ownership associated with the consigned stock. It may also prevent the consolidation of our financial statements with the PRC Operating Companies, which would reduce the reported earnings of the consolidated companies. The uncertainty of ownership may also affect the market value of the company. 15 Whether or not a consignment agreement is terminated depends on the consensus of our board and the consignees, the result of which termination would be a possible loss of some rights or assets held by us without receiving fair value in return. The consignment agreements relating to our control of the stock of three of our PRC Operating Companies (not including Origin Biotechnology) may be terminated after three years upon mutual agreement between us and the consignees. Three of the consignees, Messrs. Han, Yang and Yuan, also serve as our officers and/or directors. These three persons own, in the aggregate, 8,619,350 shares of our common stock, or about 37% of our issued and outstanding common stock. Holding such amount of stock will allow them to control or greatly influence the selection of directors and matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. One of the things they could vote to do is terminate the consignment agreements. There are corporate protections in place to protect our interests, such as an independent board of directors, an audit committee of independent directors that must approve insider transactions, a code of ethics requiring fair dealing with the Company, and the British Virgin Islands statutory provision that a disposition of more than 50% of the assets of a company must be approved by a majority of the stockholders. Moreover, if consigned stock is transferred to us as provided in the agreements when the restrictions under PRC law are lifted, that stock will thereafter not be subject to the consignment agreements, and the termination of the consignment agreements would then have no effect as to ownership of that stock. There are also legal protections for minority stockholders under PRC law. However, if the consignment agreements should be terminated, then we would lose our rights with respect to the consigned stock and profits of the issuing corporation. Such a loss would impair the value of the corporation and would reduce our ability to generate revenue. The technical services agreements between Beijing Origin State Harvest Biotechnology Limited and the other three Operating Companies may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities for transfer pricing adjustments. We also could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that our technical service agreements between Beijing Origin State Harvest Biotechnology Limited, or Origin Biotechnology, and the other three Operating Companies were not entered into based on arm’s length negotiations. If the PRC tax authorities determine that these agreements were not entered into on an arm’s length basis, they may adjust our income and expenses for PRC tax purposes in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, or deductions recorded by the three PRC Operating Companies, which could adversely affect us by: · increasing the three PRC Operating Companies’ tax liability without reducing Origin Biotechnology’s tax liability, which could further result in late payment fees and other penalties to our PRC operating companies for under-paid taxes; or · limiting Origin Biotechnology’s ability to maintain preferential tax treatments and government financial incentives, which, if the transfer pricing adjustment is significant, could result in Origin Biotechnology failing to qualify for those preferential tax treatments and government financial incentives. As a result, any transfer pricing adjustment could have a material and adverse impact upon our financial condition. There are government regulations that limit or prohibit foreign investment in the PRC, which may restrict our growth. Although there is a general restriction on foreign investment in the seed industry in the PRC, our corporate structure enables us to receive foreign investment, those restrictions notwithstanding. Our continued ability to receive foreign investment may be important to our ability to continue to expand our business rapidly and to manage that expansion effectively. There is no way to be certain that a change in the regulations allowing us to receive foreign investment will not occur, which could disrupt our plan to expand our business. 16 Risks relating to the PRC Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC, including its policy of reforming its economic system, could have a material adverse effect on the growth of private businesses in the PRC such as ours. Since the late 1970’s, the PRC has been reforming its economic system and changing from a planned economy based on governmental dictates and priorities to one that uses market forces to influence deployment of economic resources, labor and capital and to determine business endeavors. It is impossible to predict whether or not the government will continue to encourage economic liberalization and further release its control over the economy and encourage private enterprise. We also cannot predict the timing or extent of future economic reforms that may be proposed. Any reimposition of planned economy regulation or similar kinds of restrictions could reduce the freedom of private businesses to operate in a profitable manner, restrict inflows of capital or stifle investor willingness to participate in the PRC economy. To the extent we need additional capital, any restrictions on foreign ownership, foreign investment and repatriation of profits will hamper our ability to find capital outside of the PRC. The economy of China has been experiencing unprecedented growth, leading to some inflation. If the government tries to control inflation by traditional means of monetary policy or returns to planned economic techniques, our business will suffer a reduction in sales growth and expansion opportunities. The rapid growth of the PRC economy has historically resulted in high levels of inflation. If the government tries to control inflation, it may have an adverse effect on the business climate and growth of private enterprise in the PRC. An economic slow down could have an adverse effect on our sales and may increase costs. If inflation is allowed to proceed unchecked, our costs would likely increase, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to increase our prices to an extent that would offset the increase in our expenses. A return to profit repatriation controls may limit our ability to pay dividends, expand business and reduce the attractiveness of investing in PRC business opportunities. PRC law allows enterprises owned by foreign investors to remit their profits, dividends and bonuses earned in the PRC to other countries, and the remittance does not require prior approval by the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. SAFE regulations require extensive documentation and reporting, some of which is burdensome and slows payments. If there is a return to payment restrictions and reporting, the ability of a PRC company to attract investors will be reduced. Also, current investors may not be able to obtain the benefits of the profits of the business generated in the PRC for other reasons. Relevant PRC laws and regulations permit payment of dividends only from retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. It is possible that the PRC tax authorities may require changes in determining income of the company that would limit its ability to pay dividends and make other distributions. PRC law requires companies to set aside a portion of net income to fund certain reserves, which amounts are not distributable as dividends. These rules and possible changes could restrict our PRC Operating Companies from repatriating funds to State Harvest and ultimately to us and our stockholders as dividends. Any fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign currency exchange losses. Because our earnings and cash from operations are denominated in Renminbi, fluctuations in exchange rates between U.S. dollars and Renminbi will affect our balance sheet and earnings per share in U.S. dollars. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. The People’s Bank of China sets and publishes daily a base exchange rate. Until July 21, 2005, the People’s Bank of China set this rate with reference primarily to the supply and demand of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar in the market during the prior day; beginning on July 21, 2005, the People’s Bank of China has set this rate with reference primarily to the supply and demand of Renminbi against a basket of currencies in the market during the prior day, and the People’s Bank of China also takes into account other factors such as the general conditions existing in the international foreign exchange markets. The PRC government may further adjust the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies, and may further amend its policy of using a fixed-rate regime to govern foreign currency transactions, although the PRC government has not committed itself to take any such action currently. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue which will be exchanged into U.S. dollars, the value of any U.S. dollar denominated investments we make in the future and any earnings on such investments. 17 Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. Substantially all our revenues and expenses are denominated in Renminbi. We may need to convert a portion of our revenues into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations, including, among others, payment of dividends declared, if any, in respect of our ordinary shares. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, our PRC subsidiary is able to pay dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not take measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of PRC governmental authorities, including the SAFE. If our PRC Operating Companies borrow foreign currency loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with the SAFE, and if we finance our PRC subsidiary by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities including the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterparts. These limitations could affect the ability of our PRC subsidiary to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. Recent PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our overseas and cross border investment activity, and a failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. SAFE recently promulgated regulations that require registration with local SAFE offices in connection with direct or indirect offshore investment by PRC residents, including PRC individual residents and PRC corporate entities. These regulations apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents and also apply to our prior and future offshore acquisitions. In particular, the SAFE regulations require PRC Residents to file with competent SAFE offices information about offshore companies in which they have directly or indirectly invested and to make follow-up filings in connection with certain material transactions involving such offshore companies, such as increases or decreases in investment amount, transfers or exchanges of shares, mergers or divisions, long-term equity or debt investments, or external guarantees, or other material events that do not involve return investment. The SAFE regulations retroactively require registration by March 31, 2006 of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in offshore companies. If a PRC resident with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. Our major shareholders who are PRC residents, or whose shares are beneficially owned by PRC residents, have completed foreign exchange registration with the local foreign exchange bureau according to these SAFE regulations. As a result of the newness of the regulations and uncertainty concerning the reconciliation of the new regulations with other approval requirements, it remains unclear how the regulations, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. We are committed to complying and to ensuring that our shareholders who are subject to the regulations comply with the relevant rules. However, we cannot assure you that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by the regulations or other related legislation. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to receive any required approvals or make any required registrations may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross border investment activities, limit our PRC subsidiary to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, as a result of which our business operations and our ability to distribute dividend to you could be materially and adversely affected. 18 If certain exemptions within the PRC regarding withholding taxes are removed, we may be required to deduct Chinese corporate withholding taxes from any dividends that are paid to us by the PRC Operating Companies which will reduce the return on investment. Under current PRC tax laws, regulations and rulings, companies are exempt from withholding taxes with respect to dividends paid to stockholders of PRC companies outside the PRC. If the foregoing exemption is eliminated, we may be required to withhold such taxes, which will reduce our revenues as a parent company and the amount of retained earnings that may be distributed to our stockholders. The PRC legal system has inherent uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to you. Nearly all of our assets and all of our operations are in the PRC. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but are not binding on subsequent cases and have limited precedential value. Since 1979, the PRC legislative bodies have promulgated laws and regulations dealing with such economic matters as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. The laws in the PRC differ from the laws in the United States and may afford less protection to our stockholders. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in the PRC based on United States judgments against us, our subsidiaries, our officers and directors and experts named in the annual report. We are incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and our PRC Operating Companies are formed under PRC law. Substantially all of our assets are located in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and executive officers reside within the PRC, and substantially all of the assets of these persons are located within the PRC. It may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside the PRC upon our directors, or executive officers and experts named in the annual report, including effecting service of process with respect to matters arising under United States federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. The PRC does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States and many other countries. As a result, recognition and enforcement in the PRC of judgments of a court in the United States and many other jurisdictions in relation to any matter, including securities laws, may be difficult or impossible. Furthermore, an original action may be brought in the PRC against our assets and our subsidiaries, our directors and executive officers and experts named in the annual report only if the actions are not required to be arbitrated by PRC law and only if the facts alleged in the complaint give rise to a cause of action under PRC law. In connection with any such original action, a PRC court may award civil liability, including monetary damages. The recurrence of SARS in China, the potential outbreak of avian flue in China, or similar adverse public health developments, and concerns over the spread of these diseases in China and elsewhere may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. From December 2002 to June 2003, China and certain other countries experienced an outbreak of a new and highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia now known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. On July 5, 2003, the World Health Organization declared that the SARS outbreak had been contained. Since September 2003, however, a number of isolated new cases of SARS have been reported, most recently in central China in April 2004. During May and June of 2003, many businesses in China were closed by the PRC government to prevent transmission of SARS. Recently, concerns have been raised with respect to the spread of avian flu in various regions in China. Any recurrence of the SARS outbreak, outbreak of avian flu, or the development of a similar health hazard in China, may adversely affect our business and operating results. For instance, a recurrence of SARS, outbreak of avian flu or any other epidemic may lead to health or other government regulations requiring temporary closure of our business, or the businesses of our suppliers or customers, which will severely disrupt our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 19 Risks relating to our shares There will be a substantial number of shares of common stock available for sale in the future which may increase volumes of common stock available and lead to a decline in the market price of the common stock. The initial purchase price for the acquisition of State Harvest and its subsidiaries included 10,000,000 shares of common stock. These shares were not registered, and a substantial portion of them are held by insiders; therefore they are restricted. Commencing on November 8, 2006, one year after the consummation of the acquisition, these shares will become eligible for resale in the public market under SEC Rule 144 with limitations, and after two years some of these shares may become eligible for resale in the public market under SEC Rule 144(k). As a result, the number of shares available for sale will likely increase over time, which tends to reduce the market price of a stock. If certain financial or financing objectives are achieved, the former State Harvest stockholders will be entitled to receive additional shares of our stock as contingent consideration for the acquisition of their stock, which would result in dilution and might have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Under the stock purchase agreement among Chardan, State Harvest and all the shareholders of the State Harvest, the former State Harvest stockholders are entitled to receive additional common stock if certain financial performance or financing targets are achieved. There is no obligation to register the stock after issuance. However, after being held for the appropriate periods, the common stock will be eligible for resale under Rule 144. If the additional stock is earned, it will significantly increase the number of shares of common stock outstanding. The issuance of this additional stock will have a dilutive effect on the stock already outstanding and may cause a reduction in the trading price of our common stock in the public market. Voting control by executive officers, directors and other of our affiliates may limit investors’ ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval. Three of our executive officers and directors, Messrs. Han, Yang and Yuan own about 37% of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares. These three major shareholders may maintain significant control over the outcome of some corporate transactions or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors and the approval of other business transactions. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent stockholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their shares of our common stock. In addition, if our major shareholders chose to dispose of a material portion of our ordinary shares they hold, the prevailing market price of our securities may decline. Certain provisions in our organizational documents may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit your opportunity to sell your shares at a premium Our memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us. Under those provisions, the board of directors has the power to issue preferred shares with such rights attaching to them as they decide and that this power could be used in a manner that would delay, defer of prevent a change of control of the Company. These provisions could have the effect of depriving you of an opportunity to sell your shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to acquire control of us in a tender offer or similar transactions. As a result of the merger of Chardan with and into Origin, a British Virgin Islands company, and the issuance of shares in the acquisition of State Harvest, we qualify as a foreign private issuer and as a result are subject to reduced requirements with respect to the reporting of financial statements and other material events to our stockholders and the SEC. As a foreign private issuer, we are obligated to file an annual report with audited financial statements and 6-K reports at such times as we release information to the public either voluntarily or pursuant to the laws of the British Virgin Islands or the PRC. Therefore, the regularity of financial and other information will be less than would be applicable to a domestic United States registered company under the rules and regulations of the SEC. Investors may not receive information on a timely basis, therefore increasing their risk of investment. 20 ITEM 