Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a number of significant risks and other factors relating to our structure and investment objectives. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will achieve our investment objectives. You should consider carefully the following information before making an investment in our securities. Risks Related to the Economy The current state of the economy and the capital markets increases the possibility of adverse effects on our financial position and results of operations. Continued economic adversity could impair our portfolio companies’ financial positions and operating results and affect the industries in which we invest, which could, in turn, harm our operating results. Continued adversity in the capital markets could impact our ability to raise capital and reduce our volume of new investments. The United States is beginning to recover from the recession that largely began in late 2007. Despite signs of economic improvement and stabilization in both the equity and debt markets, however, conditions within the global credit markets generally continue to experience dislocation and stress. As a result, we do not know if adverse conditions will again intensify, and we are unable to gauge the full extent to which the disruptions will affect us. The longer these uncertain conditions persist, the greater the probability that these factors could continue to increase our costs of, and significantly limit our access to, debt and equity capital and, thus, have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results. Many of the companies in which we have made or will make investments are also susceptible to these unstable economic conditions, which may affect the ability of one or more of our portfolio companies to repay our loans or engage in a liquidity event, such as a sale, recapitalization or initial public offering. These unstable economic conditions could also disproportionately impact some of the industries in which we invest, causing us to be more vulnerable to losses in our portfolio, which could cause the number of our non-performing assets to increase and the fair market value of our portfolio to decrease. The unstable economic conditions may also decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans as well as the value of our equity investments which would decrease our ability to borrow under our line of credit or raise equity capital, thereby further reducing our ability to make new investments. The unstable economic conditions have affected the availability of credit generally and we have seen a reduction in committed funding under our line of credit from $125.0 million to $50.0 million and the withdrawal of Deutsche Bank AG as a committed lender. Moreover, during the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, we were forced to sell 29 of the 32 senior syndicated loans that were held in our portfolio of investments at March 31, 2009 in order to repay amounts outstanding under our Prior Credit Facility. The loans, in aggregate, had a cost value of approximately $104.2 million, or 29.9% of the cost value of our total investments, and an aggregate fair market value of approximately $69.8 million, or 22.2% of the fair market value of our total investments, at March 31, 2009. As a result of these sales, we received approximately $69.2 million in net cash proceeds and recorded a realized loss of approximately $34.6 million. Our current line of credit limits our distributions to stockholders, and, as a result, beginning in fiscal year 2010, we decreased our monthly cash distribution rate by 50.0% as compared to the prior year period in an effort to more closely align our distributions to our net investment income. We do not know when market conditions will fully stabilize, if adverse conditions will intensify or the full extent to which the disruptions will continue to affect us. Also, it is possible that persistent instability of the financial markets could have other unforeseen material effects on our business. 16 Table of Contents We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results based on the impact of inflation in the United States. The majority of our portfolio companies are in industries that are directly impacted by inflation, such as manufacturing and consumer goods and services. Our portfolio companies may not be able to pass on to customers increases in their costs of production which could greatly affect their operating results, impacting their ability to repay our loans. In addition, any projected future decreases in our portfolio companies’ operating results due to inflation could adversely impact the fair value of those investments. Any decreases in the fair value of our investments could result in future unrealized losses and therefore reduce our net assets resulting from operations. Risks Related to Our External Management We are dependent upon our key management personnel and the key management personnel of our Adviser, particularly David Gladstone, George Stelljes III, Terry Lee Brubaker and David Dullum, and on the continued operations of our Adviser, for our future success. We have no employees. Our chief executive officer, president and chief investment officer, chief operating officer and chief financial officer, and the employees of our Adviser, do not spend all of their time managing our activities and our investment portfolio. We are particularly dependent upon David Gladstone, George Stelljes III, Terry Lee Brubaker and David Dullum in this regard. Our executive officers and the employees of our Adviser allocate some, and in some cases a material portion, of their time to businesses and activities that are not related to our business. We have no separate facilities and are completely reliant on our Adviser, which has significant discretion as to the implementation and execution of our business strategies and risk management practices. We are subject to the risk of discontinuation of our Adviser’s operations or termination of the Advisory Agreement and the risk that, upon such event, no suitable replacement will be found. We believe that our success depends to a significant extent upon our Adviser and that discontinuation of its operations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objectives. Our incentive fee may induce our Adviser to make certain investments, including speculative investments. The management compensation structure that has been implemented under the Advisory Agreement may cause our Adviser to invest in high risk investments or take other risks. In addition to its management fee, our Adviser is entitled under the Advisory Agreement to receive incentive compensation based in part upon our achievement of specified levels of income. In evaluating investments and other management strategies, the opportunity to earn incentive compensation based on net income may lead our Adviser to place undue emphasis on the maximization of net income at the expense of other criteria, such as preservation of capital, maintaining sufficient liquidity, or management of credit risk or market risk, in order to achieve higher incentive compensation. Investments with higher yield potential are generally riskier or more speculative. This could result in increased risk to the value of our investment portfolio. We may be obligated to pay our Adviser incentive compensation even if we incur a loss. The Advisory Agreement entitles our Adviser to incentive compensation for each fiscal quarter in an amount equal to a percentage of the excess of our investment income for that quarter (before deducting incentive compensation, net operating losses and certain other items) above a threshold return for that quarter. When calculating our incentive compensation, our pre-incentive fee net investment income excludes realized and unrealized capital losses that we may incur in the fiscal quarter, even if such capital losses result in a net loss on our statement of operations for that quarter. Thus, we may be required to pay our Adviser incentive compensation for a fiscal quarter even if there is a decline in the value of our portfolio or we incur a net loss for that quarter. For additional information on incentive compensation under the Advisory Agreement with our Adviser, see “Business—Investment Advisory and Management Agreement.” For the quarter ended December 31, 2009, based on the Advisory Agreement, our Adviser was entitled to an incentive fee of $588 even though we incurred a loss of $4.4 million for the quarter resulting primarily from a decline in the value of our portfolio. The Adviser’s board of directors subsequently irrevocably waived and credited $102 of the incentive fee, resulting in a net incentive fee for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 of $486. Our Adviser’s failure to identify and invest in securities that meet our investment criteria or perform its responsibilities under the Advisory Agreement may adversely affect our ability for future growth. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives will depend on our ability to grow, which in turn will depend on our Adviser’s ability to identify and invest in securities that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis will be largely a function of our Adviser’s structuring of the investment process, its ability to provide competent and efficient services to us, and our access to financing on acceptable terms. The senior management team of our Adviser has substantial responsibilities under the Advisory Agreement. In order to grow, our Adviser will need to hire, train supervise and manage new employees successfully. Any failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents There are significant potential conflicts of interest which could impact our investment returns. Our executive officers and directors, and the officers and directors of our Adviser, serve or may serve as officers, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business as we do or of investment funds managed by our affiliates. Accordingly, they may have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. For example, Mr. Gladstone, our chairman and chief executive officer, is the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of our Adviser, Gladstone Capital and Gladstone Commercial and the sole stockholder of Gladstone Land. In addition, Mr. Brubaker, our co-vice chairman, chief operating officer and secretary is the vice chairman, chief operating officer and secretary of our Adviser, Gladstone Capital and Gladstone Commercial. Mr. Stelljes, our co-vice chairman and chief investment officer, is also the president and chief investment officer of our Adviser, Gladstone Capital and Gladstone Commercial. Mr. Dullum, our president and a director, is a senior managing director of our Adviser and a director of Gladstone Capital and Gladstone Commercial. Moreover, our Adviser may establish or sponsor other investment vehicles which from time to time may have potentially overlapping investment objectives with those of ours and accordingly may invest in, whether principally or secondarily, asset classes similar to those we target. For example, our Adviser recently filed a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a proposed initial public offering of common stock of Gladstone Lending Corporation, a proposed fund that would primarily invest in first and second lien term loans. While our Adviser generally has broad authority to make investments on behalf of the investment vehicles that it advises, our Adviser has adopted investment allocation procedures to address these potential conflicts and intends to direct investment opportunities to the Gladstone affiliate with the investment strategy that most closely fits the investment opportunity. Nevertheless, the management of our Adviser may face conflicts in the allocation of investment opportunities to other entities managed by our Adviser. As a result, it is possible that we may not be given the opportunity to participate in certain investments made by other members of our Adviser and its affiliated companies or investment funds managed by investment managers affiliated with our Adviser. In certain circumstances, we may make investments in a portfolio company in which one of our affiliates has or will have an investment, subject to satisfaction of any regulatory restrictions and, where required, to the prior approval of our Board of Directors. As of March 31, 2010, our Board of Directors has approved the following types of co-investment transactions: · Our affiliate, Gladstone Commercial, may lease property to portfolio companies that we do not control under certain circumstances. We may pursue such transactions only if (i) the portfolio company is not controlled by us or any of our affiliates, (ii) the portfolio company satisfies the tenant underwriting criteria of Gladstone Commercial, and (iii) the transaction is approved by a majority of our independent directors and a majority of the independent directors of Gladstone Commercial. We expect that any such negotiations between Gladstone Commercial and our portfolio companies would result in lease terms consistent with the terms that the portfolio companies would be likely to receive were they not portfolio companies of ours. · We may invest simultaneously with our affiliate Gladstone Capital in senior syndicated loans whereby neither we nor any affiliate has the ability to dictate the terms of the loans. · Additionally, pursuant to an exemptive order granted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, our Adviser may sponsor a private investment fund to co-invest with us and Gladstone Capital in accordance with the terms and conditions of the order. Certain of our officers who are also officers of our Adviser may from time to time serve as directors of certain of our portfolio companies. If an officer serves in such capacity with one of our portfolio companies, such officer will owe fiduciary duties to all stockholders of the portfolio company, which duties may from time to time conflict with the interests of our stockholders. In the course of our investing activities, we will pay management and incentive fees to our Adviser and will reimburse our Administrator for certain expenses it incurs. As a result, investors in our common stock will invest on a “gross” basis and receive distributions on a “net” basis after expenses, resulting in, among other things, a lower rate of return than one might achieve through our investors themselves making direct investments. As a result of this arrangement, there may be times when the management team of our Adviser has interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict. Our Adviser is not obligated to provide a waiver of the base management fee, which could negatively impact our earnings and our ability to maintain our current level of distributions to our stockholders. The Advisory Agreement provides for a base management fee based on our gross assets. Since our 2008 fiscal year, our Board of Directors has accepted on a quarterly basis voluntary, unconditional and irrevocable waivers to reduce the annual 2.0% base management fee on senior syndicated loan participations to 0.5% to the extent that proceeds resulting from borrowings were used to purchase such syndicated loan participations, and any waived fees may not be recouped by our Adviser in the future. However, our Adviser is not required to issue these or other waivers of fees under the Advisory Agreement, and to the extent our investment portfolio grows in the future, we expect these fees will increase. If our Adviser does not issue these waivers in future quarters, it could negatively impact our earnings and may compromise our ability to maintain our current level of distributions to our stockholders, which could have a material adverse impact on our stock price. 18 Table of Contents Our business model is dependent upon developing and sustaining strong referral relationships with investment bankers, business brokers and other intermediaries. We are dependent upon informal relationships with investment bankers, business brokers and traditional lending institutions to provide us with deal flow. If we fail to maintain our relationship with such funds or institutions, or if we fail to establish strong referral relationships with other funds, we will not be able to grow our portfolio of loans and fully execute our business plan. Risks Related to Our External Financing In recent years, creditors have significantly curtailed their lending to business development companies, including us. Because of the limited amount of committed funding under our line of credit, we will have limited ability fund new investments if we are unable to expand the facility. On April 13, 2010, through Business Investment, we entered into a third amended and restated credit agreement providing for a $50.0 million revolving line of credit (the “Credit Facility”) arranged by Branch Banking and Trust Company (“BB&T”) as administrative agent. Key Equipment Finance Company Inc. also joined the Credit Facility as a committed lender. Committed funding under the Credit Facility was reduced from the $125.0 million under our Prior Credit Facility and Deutsche Bank AG, which was a committed lender under the Prior Credit Facility, elected not to participate in the Credit Facility and withdrew its commitment. The Credit Facility may be expanded up to $125.0 million through the addition of other committed lenders to the facility. However, if additional lenders are unwilling to join the facility on its terms, we will be unable to expand the facility and thus will continue to have limited availability to finance new investments under our line of credit. The Credit Facility matures on April 13, 2012, and if the facility is not renewed or extended by this date, all principal and interest will be due and payable within one year of maturity. Between the maturity date and April 13, 2013, our lenders have the right to apply all interest income to amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility. As of May 21, 2010 we had $37.6 million of borrowing capacity under the Credit Facility. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to renew, extend or replace the Credit Facility upon its maturity in 2012 on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Our ability to expand the Credit Facility, and to obtain replacement financing at the time of its maturity, will be constrained by then-current economic conditions affecting the credit markets. In the event that we are not able to expand the Credit Facility, or to renew, extend or refinance the Credit Facility at the time of its maturity, this could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and ability to fund new investments, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and our ability to qualify as a RIC under the Code. Our business plan is dependent upon external financing, which is constrained by the limitations of the 1940 Act. Our business requires a substantial amount of cash to operate and grow. We may acquire such additional capital from the following sources: · Senior Securities. We may issue debt securities, other evidences of indebtedness (including borrowings under our line of credit) and possibly preferred stock, up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act currently permits us, as a business development company, to issue debt securities, and preferred stock, which we refer to collectively as senior securities, in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, is at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. As a result of issuing senior securities, we will be exposed to the risks associated with leverage. Although borrowing money for investments increases the potential for gain, it also increases the risk of a loss. A decrease in the value of our investments will have a greater impact on the value of our common stock to the extent that we have borrowed money to make investments. There is a possibility that the costs of borrowing could exceed the income we receive on the investments we make with such borrowed funds. In addition, our ability to pay distributions or incur additional indebtedness would be restricted if asset coverage is not at least twice our indebtedness. If the value of our assets declines, we might be unable to satisfy that test. If this happens, we may be required to liquidate a portion of our loan portfolio and repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when a sale, to the extent possible given the limited market for many of our investments, may be disadvantageous. Furthermore, any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness will not be available for distributions to our stockholders. · Common Stock. Because we are constrained in our ability to issue debt for the reasons given above, we are dependent on the issuance of equity as a financing source. If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at the time of the issuance would decrease and our common stock may experience dilution. In addition, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock. In addition, under the 1940 Act, we will generally not be able to issue additional shares of our common stock at a price below net asset value per share to purchasers, other than to our existing stockholders, through a rights offering without first obtaining the approval of our stockholders and our independent directors. If we were to sell shares of our common stock below our then current net asset value per share, such sales would result in an immediate dilution to the net asset value per share. This dilution would occur as a result of the sale of shares at a price below the then current net asset value per share of our common stock and a proportionately greater decrease in a stockholder’s interest in our earnings and assets and voting interest in us than the increase in our assets resulting from such issuance. For example, if we sell an additional 10% of our common stock at a 5% discount from net asset value, a stockholder who does not participate in that offering for its proportionate interest will suffer net asset value dilution of up to 0.5% 19 Table of Contents or $5 per $1,000 of net asset value. This imposes constraints on our ability to raise capital when our common stock is trading at below net asset value, as it has for the last year. A change in interest rates may adversely affect our profitability and our hedging strategy may expose us to additional risks. We anticipate using a combination of equity and long-term and short-term borrowings to finance our investment activities. As a result, a portion of our income will depend upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we loan these funds. Higher interest rates on our borrowings will decrease the overall return on our portfolio. Ultimately, we expect approximately 80% of the loans in our portfolio to be at variable rates determined on the basis of a LIBOR rate and approximately 20% to be at fixed rates. As of May 21, 2010, our portfolio had approximately 13.6% of the total of the loan cost value at variable rates, approximately 48.6% of the total loan cost value at variable rates with floors and approximately 37.8% of the total loan portfolio cost basis at fixed rates. To date, we hold two interest rate cap agreements. While hedging activities may insulate us against adverse fluctuations in interest rates, they may also limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio. Adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates or any future hedging transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to receive payments pursuant to our interest rate cap agreement is linked to the ability of the counter-party to that agreement to make the required payments. To the extent that the counter-party to the agreement is unable to pay pursuant to the terms of the agreement, we may lose the hedging protection of the interest rate cap agreement. In addition to regulatory limitations on our ability to raise capital, our line of credit contains various covenants which, if not complied with, could accelerate our repayment obligations under the facility, thereby materially and adversely affecting our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions. We will have a continuing need for capital to finance our loans. In order to maintain RIC status, we will be required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our ordinary income and short-term capital gains on an annual basis. Accordingly, such earnings will not be available to fund additional loans. Therefore, we are party to the Credit Facility, which provides us with a revolving credit line facility of $50.0 million, of which $37.6 million was available for borrowings as of May 21, 2010. The Credit Facility permits us to fund additional loans and investments as long as we are within the conditions set out in the credit agreement. Current market conditions have forced us to write down the value of a portion of our assets as required by the 1940 Act and fair value accounting rules. These are not realized losses, but constitute adjustment in asset values for purposes of financial reporting and for collateral value for the Credit Facility. As assets are marked down in value, the amount we can borrow on the Credit Facility decreases. As a result of the Credit Facility, we are subject to certain limitations on the type of loan investments we make, including restrictions on geographic concentrations, sector concentrations, loan size, dividend payout, payment frequency and status, and average life. The credit agreement also requires us to comply with other financial and operational covenants, which require us to, among other things, maintain certain financial ratios, including asset and interest coverage and a minimum net worth. As of March 31, 2010, we were in compliance with these covenants; however, our continued compliance with these covenants depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. In particular, depreciation in the valuation of our assets, which valuation is subject to changing market conditions which remain very volatile, affects our ability to comply with these covenants. During the year ended March 31, 2010, net unrealized appreciation on our investments was $14.3 million, which reflected the reversal of $35.7 million in unrealized depreciation resulting from our realized losses. Excluding reversals, we had $21.4 million in unrealized depreciation for the year ended March 31, 2010. During the year ended March 31, 2009, net unrealized depreciation on our investments was $19.8 million. Given the continued instability in the capital markets, the cumulative unrealized depreciation in our portfolio may increase in future periods and threaten our ability to comply with the covenants under the Credit Facility. Accordingly, there are no assurances that we will continue to comply with these covenants. Under the Credit Facility, we are also required to maintain our status as a BDC under the 1940 Act and as a RIC under the Code. Because of recent changes in our asset portfolio, due to significant sales of Non-Control/Non-Affiliate investments, there is a significant possibility that we may not meet the asset diversification threshold under the Code’s rules applicable to a RIC as of our next quarterly testing date, June 30, 2010. Although this failure alone, in our current situation, will not cause us to lose our RIC status, it will be jeopardized if we make any new investments, including additional investments in our portfolio companies (such as advances under our outstanding lines of credit) our RIC status. For more information on our current RIC status, see “Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations — Regulated Investment Company Status.” Our failure to satisfy these covenants could result in foreclosure by our lenders, which would accelerate our repayment obligations under the facility and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. 20 Table of Contents Any inability to renew, extend or replace our line of credit on terms favorable to us, or at all, could adversely impact our liquidity and ability to fund new investments or maintain distributions to our stockholders. Availability under the Credit Facility will terminate on April 13, 2012 and if the facility is not renewed or extended by such date, all principal and interest will be due and payable on April 13, 2013, one year after the date of maturity. Between the maturity date and April 13, 2013, our lenders have the right to apply all interest income to amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility. As of May 21, 2010, there was approximately $11.1 million of borrowings outstanding on the Credit Facility. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to renew, extend or replace the Credit Facility on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. Our ability to obtain replacement financing will be constrained by current economic conditions affecting the credit markets. Consequently, any renewal, extension or refinancing of the Credit Facility will likely result in significantly higher interest rates and related charges and may impose significant restrictions on the use of borrowed funds with regard to our ability to fund investments or maintain distributions to stockholders. If we are unable to secure replacement financing, we may be forced to sell certain assets on disadvantageous terms, which may result in realized losses and such realized losses could materially exceed the amount of any unrealized depreciation on these assets as of our most recent balance sheet date, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition to selling assets, or as an alternative, we may issue equity in order to repay amounts outstanding under the line of credit. Based on the recent trading prices of our stock, such an equity offering may have a substantial dilutive impact on our existing stockholders’ interest in our earnings and assets and voting interest in us. Risks Related to Our Investments We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A large number of entities compete with us and make the types of investments that we seek to make in small and mid-sized companies. We compete with public and private buyout funds, commercial and investment banks, commercial financing companies, and, to the extent they provide an alternative form of financing, hedge funds. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which would allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a business development company. The competitive pressures we face could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. We do not seek to compete based on the interest rates we offer, and we believe that some of our competitors may make loans with interest rates that will be comparable to or lower than the rates we offer. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms, and structure. However, if we match our competitors’ pricing, terms, and structure, we may experience decreased net interest income and increased risk of credit loss. Our investments in small and medium-sized portfolio companies are extremely risky and could cause you to lose all or a part of your investment. Investments in small and medium-sized portfolio companies are subject to a number of significant risks including the following: · Small and medium-sized businesses are likely to have greater exposure to economic downturns than larger businesses. Our portfolio companies may have fewer resources than larger businesses, and thus the current recession, and any further economic downturns or recessions are more likely to have a material adverse effect on them. If one of our portfolio companies is adversely impacted by a recession, its ability to repay our loan or engage in a liquidity event, such as a sale, recapitalization or initial public offering would be diminished. Moreover, in light of our current near-term strategy of preserving capital, our inability to make additional investments in our portfolio companies at a time when they need capital may increase their exposure to the risks of the current recession and future economic downturns. · Small and medium-sized businesses may have limited financial resources and may not be able to repay the loans we make to them. Our strategy includes providing financing to portfolio companies that typically is not readily available to them. While we believe that this provides an attractive opportunity for us to generate profits, this may make it difficult for the portfolio companies to repay their loans to us upon maturity. A borrower’s ability to repay its loan may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including the failure to meet its business plan, a downturn in its industry or negative economic conditions. A deterioration in a borrower’s financial condition and prospects usually will be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing on any guarantees we may have obtained from the borrower’s management. Although we will sometimes seek to be the senior, secured lender to a borrower, in most of our loans we expect to be subordinated to a senior lender, and our interest in any collateral would, accordingly, likely be subordinate to another lender’s security interest. · Small and medium-sized businesses typically have narrower product lines and smaller market shares than large businesses. Because our target portfolio companies are smaller businesses, they will tend to be more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns. In addition, our portfolio companies 21 Table of Contents may face intense competition, including competition from companies with greater financial resources, more extensive development, manufacturing, marketing and other capabilities and a larger number of qualified managerial and technical personnel. · There is generally little or no publicly available information about these businesses. Because we seek to invest in privately owned businesses, there is generally little or no publicly available operating and financial information about our potential portfolio companies. As a result, we rely on our officers, our Adviser and its employees and consultants to perform due diligence investigations of these portfolio companies, their operations and their prospects. We may not learn all of the material information we need to know regarding these businesses through our investigations. · Small and medium-sized businesses generally have less predictable operating results. We expect that our portfolio companies may have significant variations in their operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, to finance expansion or to maintain their competitive position, may otherwise have a weak financial position or may be adversely affected by changes in the business cycle. Our portfolio companies may not meet net income, cash flow and other coverage tests typically imposed by their senior lenders. A borrower’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by senior lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, foreclosure on its senior credit facility, which could additionally trigger cross-defaults in other agreements. If this were to occur, it is possible that the borrower’s ability to repay our loan would be jeopardized. · Small and medium-sized businesses are more likely to be dependent on one or two persons. Typically, the success of a small or medium-sized business also depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons. The death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our borrower and, in turn, on us. · Small and medium-sized businesses may have limited operating histories. While we intend to target stable companies with proven track records, we may make loans to new companies that meet our other investment criteria. Portfolio companies with limited operating histories will be exposed to all of the operating risks that new businesses face and may be particularly susceptible to, among other risks, market downturns, competitive pressures and the departure of key executive officers. Because the loans we make and equity securities we receive when we make loans are not publicly traded, there is uncertainty regarding the value of our privately held securities that could adversely affect our determination of our net asset value. Our portfolio investments are, and we expect will continue to be, in the form of securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. Our Board of Directors has established an investment valuation policy and consistently applied valuation procedures used to determine the fair value of these securities quarterly. These procedures for the determination of value of many of our debt securities rely on the opinions of value submitted to us by SPSE or the use of internally developed discounted cash flow (“DCF”) methodologies or indicative bid price (“IBP”) offered by the respective originating syndication agent’s trading desk, or secondary desk, specifically for our syndicated loans, or internal methodologies based on the total enterprise value (“TEV”) of the issuer used for certain of our equity investments. SPSE will only evaluate the debt portion of our investments for which we specifically request evaluation, and SPSE may decline to make requested evaluations for any reason in its sole discretion. However, to date, SPSE has accepted each of our requests for evaluation. Our use of these fair value methods is inherently subjective and is based on estimates and assumptions of each security. In the event that we are required to sell a security, we may ultimately sell for an amount materially less than the estimated fair value calculated by SPSE, or utilizing the TEV, IBP or the DCF methodology. During April and May of 2009, we completed the sale of 29 of the 32 senior syndicated loans that were held in our portfolio of investments at March 31, 2009 to various investors in the syndicated loan market. As a result of these sales, we received approximately $69.2 million in net cash proceeds, which was approximately $34.6 million less than the cost value of such investments recorded as of December 31, 2008. Our procedures also include provisions whereby our Adviser will establish the fair value of any equity securities we may hold where SPSE or third-party agent banks are unable to provide evaluations. The types of factors that may be considered in determining the fair value of our debt and equity securities include some or all of the following: · the nature and realizable value of any collateral; · the portfolio company’s earnings and cash flows and its ability to make payments on its obligations; · the markets in which the portfolio company does business; · the comparison to publicly traded companies; and · discounted cash flow and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are not susceptible to precise 22 Table of Contents determination, may fluctuate over short periods of time, and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ from the values that might have actually resulted had a readily available market for these securities been available. A portion of our assets are, and will continue to be, comprised of equity securities that are valued based on internal assessment using our own valuation methods approved by our Board of Directors, without the input of SPSE or any other third-party evaluator. We believe that our equity valuation methods reflect those regularly used as standards by other professionals in our industry who value equity securities. However, determination of fair value for securities that are not publicly traded, whether or not we use the recommendations of an independent third-party evaluator, necessarily involves the exercise of subjective judgment. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such securities. The lack of liquidity of our privately held investments may adversely affect our business. We will generally make investments in private companies whose securities are not traded in any public market. Substantially all of the investments we presently hold and the investments we expect to acquire in the future are, and will be, subject to legal and other restrictions on resale and will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to quickly obtain cash equal to the value at which we record our investments if the need arises. This could cause us to miss important investment opportunities. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may record substantial realized losses upon liquidation. In addition, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we, our Adviser, or our respective officers, employees or affiliates have material non-public information regarding such portfolio company. Due to the uncertainty inherent in valuing these securities, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that could be obtained if a ready market for these securities existed. Our net asset value could be materially affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments are materially different from the values that we ultimately realize upon our disposal of such securities. Our financial results could be negatively affected if a significant portfolio investment fails to perform as expected. Our total investment in companies may be significant individually or in the aggregate. As a result, if a significant investment in one or more companies fails to perform as expected, our financial results could be more negatively affected and the magnitude of the loss could be more significant than if we had made smaller investments in more companies. This risk is heightened as a result of our sale of the majority of senior syndicated loans in the quarter ended June 30, 2009. As a result of these sales and other exits, the total number of portfolio companies in which we hold investments decreased from 46 at March 31, 2009 to 16 at March 31, 2010. Our five largest investments represent 62.5% of the fair value of our total portfolio at March 31, 2010, compared to 48.7% at March 31, 2009. Additionally, they represent 53.0% of our total revenues for the year ended March 31, 2010, compared to 39.7% for the year ended March 31, 2009. Any disposition of a significant investment in one or more companies may negatively impact our net investment income and limit our ability to pay distributions. When we are a debt or minority equity investor in a portfolio company, which we expect will generally be the case, we may not be in a position to control the entity, and its management may make decisions that could decrease the value of our investment. We anticipate that most of our investments will continue to be either debt or minority equity investments in our portfolio companies. Therefore, we are and will remain subject to risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the shareholders and management of such company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our best interests. As a result, a portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings. In addition, we will generally not be in a position to control any portfolio company by investing in its debt securities. We typically invest in transactions involving acquisitions, buyouts and recapitalizations of companies, which will subject us to the risks associated with change in control transactions. Our strategy includes making debt and equity investments in companies in connection with acquisitions, buyouts and recapitalizations, which subjects us to the risks associated with change in control transactions. Change in control transactions often present a number of uncertainties. Companies undergoing change in control transactions often face challenges retaining key employees and maintaining relationships with customers and suppliers. While we hope to avoid many of these difficulties by participating in transactions where the management team is retained and by conducting thorough due diligence in advance of our decision to invest, if our portfolio companies experience one or more of these problems, we may not realize the value that we expect in connection with our investments which would likely harm our operating results and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents Prepayments of our investments by our portfolio companies could adversely impact our results of operations and reduce our return on equity. In addition to risks associated with delays in investing our capital, we are also subject to the risk that investments that we make in our portfolio companies may be repaid prior to maturity. We will first use any proceeds from prepayments to repay any borrowings outstanding on our line of credit. In the event that funds remain after repayment of our outstanding borrowings, then we will generally reinvest these proceeds in government securities, pending their future investment in new debt and/or equity securities. These government securities will typically have substantially lower yields than the debt securities being prepaid and we could experience significant delays in reinvesting these amounts. As a result, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our portfolio companies elects to prepay amounts owed to us. Additionally, prepayments could negatively impact our return on equity, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Higher taxation of our portfolio companies may impact our quarterly and annual operating results. The adverse effect of current unstable economic conditions on federal, state, and municipality revenues may induce these government entities to raise various taxes to make up for lost revenues. Additional taxation may have an adverse affect on our portfolio companies’ earnings and reduce their ability to repay our loans to them, thus affecting our quarterly and annual operating results. Our portfolio is concentrated in a limited number of companies and industries, which subjects us to an increased risk of significant loss if any one of these companies does not repay us or if the industries experience downturns. As of May 21, 2010, we had investments in 15 portfolio companies, of which there were three investments, A. Stucki Holding Corp., Chase II Holdings Corp. and Acme Cryogenics, Inc., that comprised approximately $84.0 million or 38.7% of our total investment portfolio, at cost. A consequence of a limited number of investments is that the aggregate returns we realize may be substantially adversely affected by the unfavorable performance of a small number of such loans or a substantial write-down of any one investment. Beyond our regulatory and income tax diversification requirements, we do not have fixed guidelines for industry concentration and our investments could potentially be concentrated in relatively few industries. In addition, while we do not intend to invest 25% or more of our total assets in a particular industry or group of industries at the time of investment, it is possible that as the values of our portfolio companies change, one industry or a group of industries may comprise in excess of 25% of the value of our total assets. As of May 21, 2010, 30.9% of our total assets were invested in machinery companies, and 21.6% of our total assets were invested in diversified conglomerate manufacturing companies. As a result, a downturn in an industry in which we have invested a significant portion of our total assets could have a materially adverse effect on us. Our investments are typically long term and will require several years to realize liquidation events. Since we generally make five to seven year term loans and hold our loans and related warrants or other equity positions until the loans mature, you should not expect realization events, if any, to occur over the near term. In addition, we expect that any warrants or other equity positions that we receive when we make loans may require several years to appreciate in value and we cannot give any assurance that such appreciation will occur. The disposition of our investments may result in contingent liabilities. Currently, all of our investments involve private securities. In connection with the disposition of an investment in private securities, we may be required to make representations about the business and financial affairs of the underlying portfolio company typical of those made in connection with the sale of a business. We may also be required to indemnify the purchasers of such investment to the extent that any such representations turn out to be inaccurate or with respect to certain potential liabilities. These arrangements may result in contingent liabilities that ultimately yield funding obligations that must be satisfied through our return of certain distributions previously made to us. There may be circumstances where our debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or we could be subject to lender liability claims. Even though we have structured some of our investments as senior loans, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might re-characterize our debt investments and subordinate all, or a portion, of our claims to that of other creditors. Holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investments typically would be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distributions. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use to repay its obligation to us. We may also be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by us with respect to a borrower’s business or in instances in which we exercised control over the borrower. It is possible that we could become subject to a lender’s liability claim, including as a result of actions taken in rendering significant managerial assistance. 24 Table of Contents Portfolio company litigation could result in additional costs and the diversion of management time and resources. In the course of providing significant managerial assistance to certain of our portfolio companies, we sometimes serve as directors on the boards of such companies. To the extent that litigation arises out of our investments in these companies, we may be named as a defendant in such litigation, which could result in additional costs and the diversion of management time and resources. We may not realize gains from our equity investments and other yield enhancements. When we make a subordinated loan, we may receive warrants to purchase stock issued by the borrower or other yield enhancements, such as success fees. Our goal is to ultimately dispose of these equity interests and realize gains upon our disposition of such interests. We expect that, over time, the gains we realize on these warrants and other yield enhancements will offset any losses we experience on loan defaults. However, any warrants we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value and any other yield enhancements, such as success fees, may not be realized. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests or other yield enhancements and any gains we may recognize might not be sufficient to offset losses we experience on our loan portfolio. Any unrealized depreciation we experience on our investment portfolio may be an indication of future realized losses, which could reduce our income available for distribution. As a business development company we are required to carry our investments at market value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at fair value as determined in good faith by or under the direction of our Board of Directors. Decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments will be recorded as unrealized depreciation. Since our inception, we have, at times, incurred a cumulative net unrealized depreciation of our portfolio. Any unrealized depreciation in our investment portfolio could result in realized losses in the future and ultimately in reductions of our income available for distribution to stockholders in future periods. Risks Related to Our Regulation and Structure We currently do not meet the 50% threshold of the asset diversification test applicable to RICs under the Code. If we make any additional investment in the future, including advances under outstanding lines of credit to our portfolio companies, and remain below this threshold as of June 30, 2010, or any subsequent quarter end, we would lose our RIC status unless we are able to cure such failure within 30 days of the quarter end. In order to maintain RIC status under the Code, in addition to other requirements, as of the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must meet the asset diversification test, which requires that at least 50% of the value of our assets consist of cash, cash items, U.S. government securities, the securities of other RICs and other securities to the extent such other securities of any one issuer do not represent more than 5% of our total assets or more than 10% of the voting securities of such issuer. As a result of changes in the value of our assets during April and May 2009, due to the Syndicated Loan Sales, we fell below the 50% threshold. At March 31, 2010, the fourth quarterly measurement date following the Syndicated Loan Sales, we satisfied the 50% threshold through the purchase of short-term qualified securities, which was funded primarily through a short-term loan agreement. Subsequent to the March 31st measurement date, the short-term qualified securities matured, and we repaid the short-term loan, at which time we again fell below the 50% threshold. Until the composition of our assets is above the required 50% threshold, we will continue to seek to deploy similar purchases of qualified securities using short-term loans that would allow us to satisfy the asset diversification test, thereby allowing us to make new or additional investments. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to enter into such a transaction on reasonable terms, if at all. Failure to meet this threshold alone does not result in loss of our RIC status in our current situation. In circumstances where the failure to meet the 50% threshold as of a quarterly measurement date is the result of fluctuations in the value of assets, including in our case as a result of the sale of assets, we are still deemed under the rules to have satisfied the asset diversification test and, therefore, maintain our RIC status, as long as we have not made any new investments, including additional investments in our portfolio companies (such as advances under outstanding lines of credit), since the time that we fell below the 50% threshold. Thus, while we currently qualify as a RIC despite our current inability to meet the 50% threshold and potential inability to do so in the future, if we make any new or additional investments before regaining compliance with the asset diversification test, our RIC status will be threatened. Because, in most circumstances, we are contractually required to advance funds on outstanding lines of credit upon the request of our portfolio companies, we may have a limited ability to avoid adding to existing investments in a manner that would cause us to fail the asset diversification test as of June 30, 2010 or as of subsequent quarterly measurement dates. If we were to make a new or additional investment before regaining compliance with the 50% threshold, and we did not regain compliance prior to the next quarterly measurement date following such investment, we would have thirty days to “cure” our failure to meet the 50% threshold to avoid our loss of RIC status. Potential cures for failure of the asset diversification test include raising additional equity or debt capital as we have done, or changing the composition of our assets, which could include full or partial divestitures of investments, such that we would once again meet or exceed the 50% threshold. Our ability to implement any of these cures would be subject to market conditions and a number of risks and uncertainties that would be, in part, beyond our control. Accordingly, we can not guarantee you that we would be successful in curing any failure of the asset diversification test, which would subject us to corporate level tax. For additional information about the consequences of failing to satisfy the RIC qualification, see “—We will be subject to corporate level tax if we are unable to satisfy Internal Revenue Code requirements for RIC qualification.” 25 Table of Contents We will be subject to corporate-level tax if we are unable to satisfy Code requirements for RIC qualification. To maintain our qualification as a RIC, we must meet income source, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. The annual distribution requirement is satisfied if we distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and short-term capital gains to our stockholders on an annual basis. Because we use leverage, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and could, under certain circumstances, be restricted from making distributions necessary to qualify as a RIC. Warrants we receive with respect to debt investments will create “original issue discount,” which we must recognize as ordinary income, increasing the amounts we are required to distribute to maintain RIC status. Because such warrants will not produce distributable cash for us at the same time as we are required to make distributions in respect of the related original issue discount, we will need to use cash from other sources to satisfy such distribution requirements. The asset diversification requirements must be met at the end of each calendar quarter. If we fail to meet these tests, we may need to quickly dispose of certain investments to prevent the loss of RIC status. Since most of our investments will be illiquid, such dispositions, if even possible, may not be made at prices advantageous to us and, in fact, may result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason and become fully subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution, and the actual amount distributed. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us and our shares. For additional information regarding asset coverage ratio and RIC requirements, see “Business—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—Regulated Investment Company Status.” From time to time, some of our debt investments may include success fees that would generate payments to us if the business is ultimately sold. Because the satisfaction of these success fees, and the ultimate payment of these fees, is uncertain, to date we have not recognized any of these success fees as income, either for financial accounting or tax purposes, until the time that the success fees have actually been paid. We have recently sought a determination from the IRS that it agrees with our tax treatment. If the IRS were to disagree with this approach, we would be required to accrue these amounts as investment company taxable income, including an immediate accrual of amounts related to success fees that were not accrued in prior periods. As a result, we would be required to distribute such amounts to our stockholders in order to maintain RIC status. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations, or changes in the interpretation thereof, and any failure by us to comply with laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business. We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation by laws at the local, state and federal levels. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Accordingly, any change in these laws or regulations, or their interpretation, or any failure by us or our portfolio companies to comply with these laws or regulations may adversely affect our business. For additional information regarding the regulations to which we are subject, see “Business—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—Regulated Investment Company Status” and “Business—Regulation as a Business Development Company.” Provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could restrict a change in control and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. We are subject to provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years unless the holder’s acquisition of our stock was either approved in advance by our Board of Directors or ratified by the Board of Directors and stockholders owning two-thirds of our outstanding stock not owned by the acquiring holder. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. We have also adopted other measures that may make it difficult for a third party to obtain control of us, including provisions of our certificate of incorporation classifying our Board of Directors in three classes serving staggered three-year terms, and provisions of our certificate of incorporation authorizing our Board of Directors to induce the issuance of additional shares of our stock. These provisions, as well as other provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, may delay, defer, or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results due to a number of factors, including, among others, variations in our investment income, the interest rates payable on the debt securities we acquire, the default rates on such securities, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the level of our expenses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets, and general economic conditions, including the impacts of inflation. The majority of our portfolio companies are in industries that are directly impacted by inflation, such as manufacturing and consumer goods and services. Our portfolio companies may not be able to pass on to customers increases in their costs of production 26 Table of Contents which could greatly affect their operating results, impacting their ability to repay our loans. In addition, any projected future decreases in our portfolio companies’ operating results due to inflation could adversely impact the fair value of those investments. Any decreases in the fair value of our investments could result in future realized and unrealized losses and therefore reduce our net assets resulting from operations. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. There is a risk that you may not receive distributions. Our current intention is to distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and short-term capital gains to our stockholders on a quarterly basis by paying monthly distributions. We expect to retain net realized long-term capital gains to supplement our equity capital and support the growth of our portfolio, although our Board of Directors may determine in certain cases to distribute these gains. In addition, our line of credit restricts the amount of distributions we are permitted to make. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results or maintain a tax status that will allow or require any specified level of cash distributions. Distributions by us have and may in the future include a return of capital. Our Board of Directors declares monthly distributions based on estimates of net investment income for each fiscal year, which may differ, and in the past have differed, from actual results. Because our distributions are based on estimates of net investment income that may differ from actual results, future distributions payable to our stockholders may also include a return of capital. Moreover, to the extent that we distribute amounts that exceed our accumulated earnings and profits, these distributions constitute a return of capital. A return of capital represents a return of a stockholder’s original investment in shares of our stock and should not be confused with a distribution from earnings and profits. Although return of capital distributions may not be taxable, such distributions may increase an investor’s tax liability for capital gains upon the sale of our shares by reducing the investor’s tax basis for such shares. Such returns of capital reduce our asset base and also adversely impact our ability to raise debt capital as a result of the leverage restrictions under the 1940 Act, which could have a material adverse impact on our ability to make new investments. The market price of our shares may fluctuate significantly. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. Due to the extreme volatility and disruption that have affected the capital and credit markets for over a year, we have experienced greater than usual stock price volatility. The market price and marketability of our shares may from time to time be significantly affected by numerous factors, including many over which we have no control and that may not be directly related to us. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: · general economic trends and other external factors; · price and volume fluctuations in the stock market from time to time, which are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies; · significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of shares of RICs, business development companies or other companies in our sector, which is not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; · changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs or business development companies; · loss of business development company status; · loss of RIC status; · changes in our earnings or variations in our operating results; · changes in the value of our portfolio of investments; · any shortfall in our revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; · departure of key personnel; · operating performance of companies comparable to us; · short-selling pressure with respect to our shares or business development companies generally; · the announcement of proposed, or completed, offerings of our securities, including a rights offering; and · loss of a major funding source. Fluctuations in the trading prices of our shares may adversely affect the liquidity of the trading market for our shares and, if we seek to raise capital through future equity financings, our ability to raise such equity capital. 27 Table of Contents The issuance of subscription rights to our existing stockholders may dilute the ownership and voting powers by existing stockholders in our common stock, dilute the net asset value of their shares and have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. In April 2008 we completed an offering of transferable rights to subscribe for additional shares of our common stock, or subscription rights. We determined to raise equity in this manner primarily because of the capital raising constraints applicable to us under the 1940 Act when our stock is trading below its net asset value per share, as it was at the time of the offering. In the event that we again issue subscription rights to our existing stockholders, there is a significant possibility that the rights offering will dilute the ownership interest and voting power of stockholders who do not fully exercise their subscription rights. Stockholders who do not fully exercise their subscription rights should expect that they will, upon completion of the rights offering, own a smaller proportional interest in the Company than would otherwise be the case if they fully exercised their subscription rights. In addition, because the subscription price of the rights offering is likely to be less than our most recently determined net asset value per share, our stockholders are likely to experience an immediate dilution of the per share net asset value of their shares as a result of the offer. As a result of these factors, any future rights offerings of our common stock, or our announcement of our intention to conduct a rights offering, could have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. Shares of closed-end investment companies frequently trade at a discount from net asset value. Shares of closed-end investment companies frequently trade at a discount from net asset value. Since our inception, our common stock has at times traded above net asset value, and at times traded below net asset value. During the past year, our common stock has traded consistently, and at times significantly, below net asset value. Subsequent to March 31, 2010, our stock has traded at discounts of up to 40.4% of our net asset value as of March 31, 2010. This characteristic of shares of closed-end investment companies is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share will decline. As with any stock, the price of our shares will fluctuate with market conditions and other factors. If shares are sold, the price received may be more or less than the original investment. Whether investors will realize gains or losses upon the sale of our shares will not depend directly upon our net asset value, but will depend upon the market price of the shares at the time of sale. Since the market price of our shares will be affected by such factors as the relative demand for and supply of the shares in the market, general market and economic conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict whether the shares will trade at, below or above our net asset value. Under the 1940 Act, we are generally not able to issue additional shares of our common stock at a price below net asset value per share to purchasers other than our existing stockholders through a rights offering without first obtaining the approval of our stockholders and our independent directors. Additionally, at times when our stock is trading below its net asset value per share, our dividend yield may exceed the weighted average returns that we would expect to realize on new investments that would be made with the proceeds from the sale of such stock, making it unlikely that we would determine to issue additional shares in such circumstances. Thus, for as long as our common stock trades below net asset value we will be subject to significant constraints on our ability to raise capital through the issuance of common stock. Additionally, an extended period of time in which we are unable to raise capital may restrict our ability to grow and adversely impact our ability to increase or maintain our distributions. Stockholders may incur dilution if we sell shares of our common stock in one or more offerings at prices below the then current net asset value per share of our common stock. At our most recent annual meeting, our stockholders approved a proposal designed to allow us to access the capital markets in a way that absent stockholder approval, we are generally unable to due to restrictions applicable to business development companies under the 1940 Act. Specifically, our stockholders approved a proposal that authorizes us to sell shares of our common stock below the then current net asset value per share of our common stock in one or more offerings for a period of one year. At the upcoming annual stockholders meeting scheduled for August 5, 2010, our stockholders will be asked to vote in favor of this proposal for another year. During the past year, our common stock has traded consistently, and at times significantly, below net asset value. Any decision to sell shares of our common stock below the then current net asset value per share of our common stock would be subject to the determination by our Board of Directors that such issuance is in our and our stockholders’ best interests. If we were to sell shares of our common stock below net asset value per share, such sales would result in an immediate dilution to the net asset value per share. This dilution would occur as a result of the sale of shares at a price below the then current net asset value per share of our common stock and a proportionately greater decrease in a stockholder’s interest in our earnings and assets and voting interest in us than the increase in our assets resulting from such issuance. The greater the difference between the sale price and the net asset value per share at the time of the offering, the more significant the dilutive impact would be. Because the number of shares of common stock that could be so issued and the timing of any issuance is not currently known, the actual dilutive effect, if any, cannot be currently predicted. However, if, for example, we sold an additional 10% of our common stock at a 5% discount from net asset value, a stockholder who did not participate in that offering for its proportionate interest would suffer net asset value dilution of up to 0.5% or $5 per $1,000 of net asset value. 28 Table of Contents Other Risks We could face losses and potential liability if intrusion, viruses or similar disruptions to our technology jeopardize our confidential information, whether through breach of our network security or otherwise. Maintaining our network security is of critical importance because our systems store highly confidential financial models and portfolio company information. Although we have implemented, and will continue to implement, security measures, our technology platform is and will continue to be vulnerable to intrusion, computer viruses or similar disruptive problems caused by transmission from unauthorized users. The misappropriation of proprietary information could expose us to a risk of loss or litigation. Terrorist attacks, acts of war, or national disasters may affect any market for our common stock, impact the businesses in which we invest, and harm our business, operating results, and financial conditions. Terrorist acts, acts of war, or national disasters have created, and continue to create, economic and political uncertainties and have contributed to global economic instability. Future terrorist activities, military or security operations, or national disasters could further weaken the domestic/global economies and create additional uncertainties, which may negatively impact the businesses in which we invest directly or indirectly and, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Losses from terrorist attacks and national disasters are generally uninsurable. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 