Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves significant risks, including the following: Company risks Capitalization and Commercial Viability. If our exploration programs are successful, additional funds will be required for the development of an economic ore body and to place it in commercial production. The only sources of future funds presently available to us is the sale of equity capital, or the offering by us of an interest in our properties to be earned by another party or parties carrying out further exploration or development thereof. There are a number of risks that may cause us to be unable to obtain adequate financing in the future or that the terms of such financing would be favorable. The most important of those risks is that we do not succeed in finding evidence that our exploration properties contain economic quantities of diamonds which is strong enough to satisfy potential investors. The other important risk relating to obtaining financing is that financial markets may not be interested in investing in diamond exploration at the time we need the money to advance our exploration programs. Failure to obtain such additional financing will result in the delay or indefinite postponement of further exploration and development of our properties and will result in us losing some of our properties which would cause us to go out of business. We have a limited operating history and have losses which we expect to continue into the future. As a result, we may have to suspend or cease operations. We were incorporated in February 2004 and we have limited operations, but have not realized any revenues since inception. We have no operating history upon which an evaluation of our future success or failure can be made. Our net loss from inception to June 30, 2005 is $939,341. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability and positive cash flow is dependent upon · our ability to locate, explore and develop a profitable mineral property; · our ability to generate revenues; and · our ability to reduce exploration costs. Based upon current plans, we expect to incur operating losses in future periods. We have not generated any revenues from our operations and we don’t anticipate any in the foreseeable future. This will happen because there are expenses associated with the research and exploration of our mineral properties. We may not be successful in generating revenues in the future. Failure to generate revenues will cause us to go out of business. Our plan of operation is limited to finding an ore body. As such we have no plans for revenue generation. Accordingly, you should not expect any revenues from operations. Our plan of operation and the funds we raised from our public offering were used for exploration of our properties to determine if there is an ore body beneath the surface. Exploration does not contemplate removal of the ore. We have no plans or funds for ore removal. Accordingly, we will not generate any revenues as a result of your investment. Because the probability of an individual prospect ever having reserves is extremely remote any funds spent on exploration will probably be lost. The probability of an individual prospect ever having reserves is extremely remote. In all probability the properties do not contain any reserves. As such, any funds spent on exploration will probably be lost which will result in a loss of your investment. We have no known mineral reserves. We have no known mineral reserves. Without mineral reserves, we have nothing to economically remove. If we have nothing to economically remove, we cannot generate income and if we cannot generate income we will have to cease operation which will result in the loss of your investment. Because we do not carry insurance and exploration operations are subject to risks, if we are successfully sued and a judgment is rendered against us, we may have to cease operations. Exploration operations generally involve a high degree of risk. Hazards such as unusual or unexpected formations and other conditions are involved. We may become subject to liability for pollution, cave-ins or hazards against which we cannot insure or against which we may elect not to insure. The payment of such liabilities may have a material adverse effect on our financial position. We are not insured against any environmental risks. Insurance against environmental risks, including potential liability for pollution or other hazards as a result of the disposal of waste products occurring from exploration and production, has not been generally available to companies within the industry. We will evaluate the cost and coverage of the insurance against certain environmental risks that is available to determine if it would be appropriate to obtain such insurance. Without such insurance, and if we becomes subject to environmental liabilities, the payment of such liabilities would reduce or eliminate our available funds or could exceed the funds we have to pay such liabilities and result in bankruptcy. Should we be unable to fund fully the remedial cost of an environmental problem, we might be required to enter into interim compliance measures pending completion of the required remedy. If we do not have title to our properties, we may not own anything which will result in the loss of your investment. While we have performed our own due diligence with respect to title to our properties, this can not be construed as a guarantee of title. The properties may be subject to prior unregistered agreements or transfers or native land claims and title may be affected by undetected defects. We are small and do not have much capital and must limit our exploration. Because we are small and do not have much capital, we must limit our exploration. Because we may have to limit our exploration, we may not find any minerals, even though our properties may contain mineralized material. Without any minerals we cannot generate revenues and you will lose your investment. Our key management have other outside business activities and will only be devoting part of their time to our operations. Because Messrs. Lipsett, Cavey, Crowhurst and Chan, our officers and directors, have other outside business activities and will only be devoting part of their time to our operations, our operations may be sporadic and occur at times which are convenient to Messrs. Lipsett, Cavey, Crowhurst and Chan. As a result, exploration of our properties may be periodically interrupted or suspended. We may not have access to all of the supplies and materials for our exploration activities which could cause us to delay or suspend operations. Competition and unforeseen limited sources of supplies in the industry could result in occasional spot shortages of supplies, such as dynamite, and certain equipment such as bulldozers and excavators that we might need to conduct exploration. We have not attempted to locate or negotiate with any suppliers of products, equipment or materials. Our exploration efforts will be continued on the receipt of further funding. Once further funding is obtained we will attempt to locate products, equipment and materials. If we cannot find the products and equipment we need we will have to suspend our exploration plans until we do find the products and equipment we need. Our operations may be adversely affected by potential conflicts of interest. Certain of our directors serve as directors of other junior mining companies, and therefore it is possible that a conflict may arise between their duties as a director our company and their duties as a director or officer of such the other junior mining companies. Should such a conflict arise, our operations could be adversely affected as a result of the diversion of corporate opportunities to one or more of the junior mining companies. Investment risks Because our securities are subject to penny stock rules, you may have difficulty reselling your shares. Our shares as penny stocks are covered by Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 which imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker/dealers who sell our securities including the delivery of a standardized disclosure document; disclosure and confirmation of quotation prices; disclosure of compensation the broker/dealer receives; and, furnishing monthly account statements. For sales of our securities, the broker/dealer must make a special suitability determination and receive from its customer a written agreement prior to making a sale. The imposition of the foregoing additional sales practices could adversely affect our shareholder’s ability to dispose of their stock. Because all of our assets and our officers and directors are located outside the United States of America, it may be difficult for an investor to enforce within the United States any judgments obtained against us or any of our officers and directors. All of our assets are located outside of the United States and we do not currently maintain a permanent place of business within the United States. In addition, our directors and officers are nationals and/or residents of countries other than the United States, and all or a substantial portion of such persons' assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for an investor to effect service of process or enforce within the United States any judgments obtained against us or our officers or directors, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Canada and other jurisdictions would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us or our directors and officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of t he securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in Canada or other jurisdictions against us or our directors and officers predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. We may become a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. Since PFIC status will be determined by us on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our income and assets from time to time (as further discussed below), we cannot assure you that we will not be considered a PFIC for any taxable year. Such a characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor. In particular, absent an election described below, a U.S. investor would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at ordinary income tax rates, plus a possible interest charge, in respect of gain derived from a disposition of our shares, as well as certain distributions by us. In addition, a step-up in the tax basis of our shares would not be available upon the death of an individual shareholder. For this reason, if we are treated as a PFIC for any taxable year and you are a U.S. investor, you may desire to make an election to treat us as a "qualified elect ing fund" with respect to your shares (a "QEF election"), in which case you will be required to take into account a pro-rata share of our earnings and net capital gain for each year, regardless of whether we make any distributions to you. As an alternative to the QEF election, a U.S. investor may be able to make an election to "mark-to-market" our shares each taxable year and recognize ordinary income pursuant to such election based upon increases in the value of our shares. We will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes if 50% or more of our assets, including goodwill (based on an annual quarterly average), are passive assets, or 75% or more of our annual gross income is derived from passive assets. The calculation of goodwill will be based, in part, on the then market value of our common shares, which is subject to change. We may issue additional shares of common stock in public offerings or private placements so your ownership interest in us may be diluted. Because we may issue shares of common stock in public offerings or private placements in order to raise capital for our operations, your ownership interest may be diluted which results in your percentage of ownership in us decreasing. Because our directors are involved in other junior mining companies there may be occasions where directors have a conflict of interest. Because our directors are involved in other junior mining companies there may be occasions where our directors have a conflict of interest regarding the selection of which mining company will be chosen to develop a new mineral property. There could also be a situation arise where we enter into a transaction with another company which has one or more directors in common with us which would create a conflict of interest. 