Item 1A Risk Factors Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2 Properties Item 3 Legal Proceedings Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6 Selected Financial Data Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A Controls and Procedures Item 9B Other Information PART III Item 10 Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11 Executive Compensation Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules SIGNATURES FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS All statements contained herein, other than historical facts, may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of theSecurities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements may relate to, among other things, future events or our future performance or financial condition. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “might,” “believe,” “will,” “provided,” “anticipate,” “future,” “could,” “growth,” “plan,” “intend,” “expect,” “should,” “would,” “if,” “seek,” “possible,” “potential,” “likely” or the negative of such terms or comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, among others: (1) our future operating results as we are a company with a limited operating history; (2) the loss of one or more of our executive officers, in particular, David Gladstone, Terry Lee Brubaker, or George Stelljes, III; (3) the impact of the investments that we make and the ability of these investments to achieve their objectives; (4) our contractual relationships with third parties; (5) the adequacy of our cash resources and working capital; (6) our ability to obtain future financing, if at all; and (7) those factors listed under the caption “Risk Factors” of the Company’s prospectus dated June 22, 2005, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 23, 2005. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which are made pursuant to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and, as such, speak only as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, after the date of this Form 10-K. PART I Item 1. Business Gladstone Investment Corporation We were incorporated under the General Corporation Laws of the State of Delaware on February 18, 2005. On June 22, 2005 we completed an initial public offering and commenced operations. We were primarily established for the purpose of investing in subordinated loans, mezzanine debt, preferred stock and warrants to purchase common stock of small and medium-sized companies in connection with buyouts and other recapitalizations. We may also invest in senior secured loans and common stock and, from time to time, we may also invest in senior and subordinated syndicated loans. Our investment objective is to generate both current income and capital gains through these debt and equity instruments. We operate as a closed-end, non-diversified management investment company and have elected to be treated as a business development company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 as amended, which we refer to in this annual report as the 1940 Act. Our primary investment focuses are situations involving buyouts and recapitalizations of small and mid-sized companies with established management teams. We expect that our investments will generally range between $10 million and $30 million each, although this investment size may vary proportionately as the size of our capital base changes. We intend to invest either by ourselves or jointly with other buyout funds, depending on the opportunity. If we are participating in an investment with one or more co-investors, then our investment is likely to be smaller than if we were to be investing alone. Our Adviser Our affiliate Gladstone Management Corporation (the “Adviser” or “GMC”) is our investment adviser and is led by a management team which has extensive experience in our lines of business. GMC is controlled by David Gladstone, our chairman and chief executive officer. Mr. Gladstone is also the chairman and chief executive officer of our Adviser. Terry Lee Brubaker, our vice chairman, chief operating officer and director, is a member of the Board of Directors of GMC and its vice chairman and chief operating officer. George Stelljes III, our president, chief investment officer and director, is a member of the Board of Directors of GMC and its president and chief investment officer. Harry Brill, our chief financial officer, is the chief financial officer of GMC. GMC also provides investment advisory and administrative services to our affiliates Gladstone Commercial Corporation, a publicly traded real estate investment trust; Gladstone Capital Corporation, a publicly traded registered investment company; and Gladstone Land Corporation, an agricultural real estate company owned by Mr. Gladstone. We refer to GMC and our other affiliates managed by GMC in this annual report as the Gladstone Companies. All of our directors and executive officers serve as either directors or executive officers, or both, of Gladstone Commercial Corporation and Gladstone Capital Corporation. In the future, GMC may provide investment advisory and administrative services to other funds, both public and private, of which it is the sponsor. 1 We have been externally managed by GMC pursuant to an investment advisory and management agreement since our inception. GMC was organized as a corporation under the laws of the State of Delaware on July 2, 2002, and is a registered investment adviser under the 1940 Act. GMC is headquartered in McLean, Virginia, a suburb of Washington, DC, and has offices in New York, New York, Chicago, Illinois, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Morristown, New Jersey, Lexington, Kentucky and Dallas, Texas. Our Investment Strategy We seek to achieve returns from current income and capital gains from junior subordinated and mezzanine debt, as well as preferred stock and warrants to purchase common stock, representing controlling investments that we make in connection with buyouts and recapitalizations of small and mid-sized companies. We expect that our target portfolio over time will include mostly subordinated loans, mezzanine debt, preferred stock, and warrants to buy common stock. Structurally, subordinated loans and mezzanine loans usually rank lower in priority of payment to senior debt, such as senior bank debt, and may be unsecured. However, subordinated debt and mezzanine loans rank senior to common and preferred equity in a borrower’s capital structure. Typically, subordinated debt and mezzanine loans have elements of both debt and equity instruments, offering the returns in the form of interest payments associated with senior debt, while providing lenders an opportunity to participate in the capital appreciation of a borrower, if any, through an equity interest. This equity interest typically takes the form of warrants. Due to its higher risk profile and often less restrictive covenants as compared to senior debt, mezzanine debt generally earns a higher return than senior secured debt. The warrants associated with mezzanine loans are typically detachable, which allows lenders to receive repayment of their principal on an agreed amortization schedule while retaining their equity interest in the borrower. Mezzanine debt also may include a “put” feature, which permits the holder to sell its equity interest back to the borrower at a price determined through an agreed upon formula. We believe that mezzanine loans offer an attractive investment opportunity based upon their historic returns and resilience during economic downturns. Investment Process Overview of Investment and Approval Process To originate investments, our Adviser’s investment professionals use an extensive referral network comprised of venture capitalists, leveraged buyout funds, investment bankers, attorneys, accountants, commercial bankers and business brokers. Our Adviser’s investment professionals review information received from these and other sources in search of potential financing opportunities. If a potential opportunity matches our investment objectives, the investment professionals will seek an initial screening of the opportunity from our Adviser’s investment committee, which is composed of Messrs. Gladstone, Brubaker and Stelljes. If the prospective portfolio company passes this initial screening, the investment professionals will conduct a due diligence investigation of the prospective portfolio company. Upon completion of the due diligence investigation, the investment professionals create a detailed profile summarizing the prospective portfolio company’s historical financial statements, industry and management team and analyzing its conformity to our general investment criteria. The investment professionals then present this profile to the investment committee, which must unanimously approve each investment. Further, each financing is reviewed by the members of our Board of Directors, a majority of whom are not “interested persons” as defined in Section 2(a)(19) of the 1940 Act. Prospective portfolio company characteristics We have identified certain characteristics that we believe are important in identifying and investing in prospective portfolio companies. The criteria listed below provide general guidelines for our investment decisions, although not all of these criteria may be met by each portfolio company. • Value-and-Income Orientation and Positive Cash Flow. Our investment philosophy places a premium on fundamental analysis from an investor’s perspective and has a distinct value-and-income orientation. In seeking value, we focus on companies in which we can invest at relatively low multiples of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA (which is a measure of operating cash flow), and that have positive operating cash flow at the time of investment. In seeking income, we seek to invest in companies that generate relatively high and stable cash flow to provide some assurance that they will be able to service their debt and pay any required dividends on preferred stock. Typically, we do not expect to invest in start-up companies or companies having speculative business plans. • Experienced Management. We generally require that our portfolio companies have experienced management teams. We also require the portfolio companies to have in place proper incentives to induce management to succeed and to act in concert with our interests as investors, including having significant equity or other interests in the financial performance of their companies. 2 • Strong Competitive Position in an Industry. We seek to invest in target companies that have developed strong market positions within their respective markets and that we believe are well-positioned to capitalize on growth opportunities. We seek companies that demonstrate significant competitive advantages versus their competitors, which we believe will help to protect their market positions and profitability. • Exit Strategy. We seek to invest in companies that we believe will provide a stable stream of cash flow that is sufficient to repay the loans we make to them and to reinvest in their respective businesses. We expect that such internally generated cash flow, which will allow our portfolio companies to pay interest on, and repay the principal of, our investments, will be a key means by which we exit from our investments over time. In addition, we will also seek to invest in companies whose business models and expected future cash flows offer attractive possibilities for capital appreciation on any equity interests we retain. These capital appreciation possibilities include strategic acquisitions by other industry participants or financial buyers, initial public offerings of common stock, or other capital market transactions. • Liquidation Value of Assets. The prospective liquidation value of the assets, if any, collateralizing loans in which we invest will be an important factor in our investment analysis. We will emphasize both tangible assets, such as accounts receivable, inventory, equipment, and real estate and intangible assets, such as intellectual property, customer lists, networks, and databases, although the relative weight we place on these asset classes will vary by company and industry. Extensive Due Diligence Our Adviser conducts what we believe are extensive due diligence investigations of our prospective portfolio companies and investment opportunities. Our due diligence investigation of a prospective portfolio company may begin with a review of publicly available information, and generally includes some or all of the following: • a review of the prospective portfolio company’s historical and projected financial information; • visits to the prospective portfolio company’s business site(s); • interviews with the prospective portfolio company’s management, employees, customers and vendors; • review of all loan documents; • background checks on the prospective portfolio company’s management team; and • research on the prospective portfolio company’s products, services or particular industry. Upon completion of a due diligence investigation and a decision to proceed with an investment in a buyout or other recapitalization, GMC’s investment professionals who have primary responsibility for the investment present the investment opportunity to GMC’s investment committee, which consists of Messrs. Gladstone, Brubaker and Stelljes. The investment committee determines whether to pursue the potential investment. Additional due diligence of a potential investment may be conducted on our behalf by attorneys and independent accountants prior to the closing of the investment, as well as other outside advisers, as appropriate. We also rely on the long-term relationships that our Adviser’s professionals have with venture capitalists, leveraged buyout funds, investment bankers, commercial bankers and business brokers, and on the extensive direct experiences of our executive officers and managing directors in providing debt and equity capital to small and medium-sized private businesses. Investment Structure Once we have determined that a prospective acquisition, buyout or recapitalization meets our standards and investment criteria, we work with the management of that company and other capital providers to structure the transaction in a way that provides us the greatest opportunity to maximize our return on the investment, while providing appropriate incentives to management of the company. Subordinated Debt and Mezzanine Debt. We anticipate that over time, the majority of the capital that we invest will be in the form of subordinated or mezzanine debt. Most of our mezzanine loans will be unsecured loans while most of the subordinated loans will be collateralized by a subordinated lien on some or all of the assets of the borrower. We will seek to structure most of our mezzanine and subordinated loans with variable interest rates; however it is possible that some will have fixed rates. In either event, we will attempt to structure the loans at relatively high rates of interest that will provide us with significant current interest income. We expect our subordinated and mezzanine loans to typically have maturities of five to ten years and to provide for interest-only payments in the early years, with amortization of principal deferred to the later years of the mezzanine loans. In some cases, we may enter into loans that, by their terms, convert into equity or additional debt securities or defer payments of interest for the first few years after our investment. 3 We will generally target a current return of 10% to 14% for our subordinated and mezzanine loan investments before giving effect to any warrants that we receive in connection with these loans. We cannot give any assurance that our returns will approximate these estimates. Our subordinated and mezzanine debt investments may include equity features, such as warrants or options to buy a significant common stock ownership interest in the portfolio company or success fees if the business is sold. If a portfolio company appreciates in value, we may achieve additional investment returns from any equity interests we hold. If we are a minority interest holder, we may structure the warrants to provide provisions protecting our rights as a minority-interest holder such as the right to sell the warrants back to the company upon the occurrence of specified events. In many cases, we will also obtain registration rights in connection with these equity interests, which may include demand and co- registration rights. Senior Secured Debt. We also anticipate providing senior secured acquisition financing for some portfolio companies. We expect these senior secured loans to have terms of three to ten years, and they may provide for deferred interest payments in the first few years of the term of the loan. We generally will obtain security interests in the assets of our portfolio companies that will serve as collateral in support of the repayment of these senior loans. This collateral will usually take the form of first priority liens on the assets of the portfolio company. We expect that the interest rate on our senior secured loans will be variable rates ranging between 2% and 5% over the London Interbank Offer Rate, or LIBOR. We will generally provide this type of financing when there is a time constraint in closing an investment and would expect to be repaid as soon as practical by either selling our interest in such debt or by having a bank or other senior lender provide financing to pay off our senior loan. Common and Preferred Stock. We may also acquire common or preferred stock in connection with a buyout or recapitalization. With respect to preferred or common stock investments, we expect to target an investment return substantially higher than our investments in senior or subordinated loans. However, we can offer no assurance that we can achieve such a return with respect to any investment or our portfolio as a whole. The features of the preferred stock we receive will vary by transaction, but may include priority dividend rights, superior voting rights, redemption rights, liquidation preferences and other provisions intended to protect our interests. Generally speaking, common stock does not have any current income and its value is realized if at all, upon the sale of the business or following the company’s initial public offering. Risk Management. We will seek to limit the downside risk of our investments by: • making investments with an expected total return on our investments (including both interest and potential equity appreciation) that we believe compensates us for the credit risk of the investment; • seeking collateral or superior positions in the portfolio company’s capital structure where possible; • incorporating put rights and call protection into the investment structure where possible; and • negotiating covenants in connection with our investments that afford our portfolio companies as much flexibility as possible in managing their businesses, consistent with the preservation of our capital. We expect to hold most of our investments in subordinated debt and mezzanine debt until maturity or repayment, but will sell our investments earlier if a liquidity event takes place, such as the sale or recapitalization of a portfolio company or, in the case of an equity investment in a company, its initial public offering. Occasionally, we may sell some or all of our subordinated debt, mezzanine debt or equity interests in a portfolio company to a third party, such as an existing investor in the company, through a privately negotiated transaction. As described above, we may also provide senior debt in addition to junior debt and equity in connection with an acquisition. In such circumstances, we would not expect to hold our senior debt for more than one year. Finally, we may attempt to securitize some of the debt securities in our portfolio and if we do so, these loans would be transferred to a securitization vehicle and generallywould be held by the securitization vehicle until maturity. Temporary Investments Pending investment in the debt of private companies, we invest our otherwise uninvested cash primarily in cash, cash items, government securities or high-quality debt securities maturing in one year or less from the time of investment, to which we refer collectively as temporary investments, so that at least 70% of our assets are “qualifying assets”, for purposes of the business development company provisions of the 1940 Act. For information regarding regulations to which we are subject and the definition of “qualifying assets,” see “Regulation.” 4 Competitive Advantages We believe that we have the following competitive advantages over other companies that provide capital to small and mid-sized companies in connection with buyout and recapitalization transactions: Management Expertise David Gladstone, our chairman and chief executive officer, is also the chairman and chief executive officer of GMC, Gladstone Capital and Gladstone Commercial and has been involved in all aspects of the Gladstone Companies’ investment activities, including serving as a member of GMC’s investment committee. Terry Lee Brubaker is our vice chairman and has substantial experience in acquisitions and operations of companies. George Stelljes III is our president and has extensive experience in leveraged finance. Messrs. Gladstone, Brubaker and Stelljes have principal management responsibility for GMC as its senior executive officers. These individuals dedicate a significant portion of their time to managing our investment portfolio. Our senior management has extensive experience providing capital to small and mid-sized companies and has worked together for more than 10 years. In addition, we have access to the resources and expertise of GMC’s investment professionals and supporting staff who possess a broad range of transactional, financial, managerial, and investment skills. We expect that GMC will continue to hire additional investment professionals in the future. As a result of the extensive investment experience of GMC, its executive officers and other investment professionals, GMC and its executive officers have developed a positive reputation in the capital markets. We believe that this reputation and experience, together with the experience of the executive officers of GMC in investing in debt and equity securities, and managing investments in companies, affords us a competitive advantage in identifying opportunities to invest in small and mid-sized companies. Increased access to investment opportunities developed through proprietary research capability and extensive network of contacts GMC seeks to identify potential investments both through active origination and due diligence and through its dialogue with numerous management teams, members of the financial community, and potential corporate partners with whom GMC’s investment professionals have had long-term relationships. We believe that GMC’s investment professionals have developed a broad network of contacts within the investment, commercial banking, private equity, and investment management communities, and that their reputation in investment management enables us to identify well-positioned prospective portfolio companies which provide attractive investment opportunities. Additionally, GMC expects to generate information from its professionals’ network of accountants, consultants, lawyers, and management teams of portfolio companies and other companies. Disciplined, value-and-income-oriented investment philosophy with a focus on preservation of capital In making its investment decisions, GMC focuses on the risk and reward profile of each prospective portfolio company, seeking to minimize the risk of capital loss without foregoing the potential for capital appreciation. We expect GMC to use the same value-and-income-oriented investment philosophy that its professionals use in the management of the other Gladstone Companies and to commit resources to management of downside exposure. GMC’s approach seeks to reduce risk in investments by using some or all of the following: • focusing on companies with good market positions, established management teams and good cash flow; • investing in businesses with experienced management teams; • engaging in extensive due diligence from the perspective of a long-term investor; • investing at low price-to-cash flow multiples; or • adopting flexible transaction structures by drawing on the experience of the investment professionals of GMC and its affiliates. Versatile transaction structuring We believe our management team’s broad expertise and its ability to draw upon many years of combined experience will enable GMC to identify, assess, and structure investments successfully across all levels of a company’s capital structure and manage potential risk and return at all stages of the economic cycle. We will not be subject to many of the regulatory limitations that govern traditional lending institutions such as banks. As a result, we expect to be flexible in selecting and structuring investments, adjusting investment criteria and transaction structures, and, in some cases, the types of securities in which we invest. We believe that this approach should enable GMC to identify attractive investment opportunities that will continue to generate current income and capital gain potential throughout the economic cycle, including during turbulent periods in the capital markets. One example of our flexibility is our ability to exchange our publicly-traded stock for the stock of an acquisition target in a tax-free reorganization under the Internal Revenue 5 Code. After completing an acquisition in such an exchange, we can restructure the capital of the small company to include senior and subordinated debt. Longer investment horizon with attractive publicly traded model Unlike private equity and venture capital funds that are typically organized as finite-life partnerships, we will not be subject to standard periodic capital return requirements. The partnership agreements of most private equity and venture capital funds typically provide that these funds may only invest investors’ capital once and must return all capital and realized gains to investors within a finite time period, often seven to ten years. These provisions often force private equity and venture capital funds to seek returns on their investments by causing their portfolio companies to pursue mergers, public equity offerings, or other liquidity events more quickly than might otherwise be optimal or desirable, potentially resulting in both a lower overall return to investors and an adverse impact on their portfolio companies. We believe that our flexibility to make investments with a long-term view and without the capital return requirements of traditional private investment vehicles provides us with the opportunity to achieve greater long-term returns on invested capital. Ongoing Relationships with and Monitoring of Portfolio Companies Monitoring Our Adviser’s investment professionals monitor the financial trends of each portfolio company on an ongoing basis to determine if each is meeting its respective business plans and to assess the appropriate course of action for each company. We monitor this information regarding the status and performance of each portfolio company, and use it to evaluate the overall performance of our portfolio. Our Adviser employs various methods of evaluating and monitoring the performance of our investments, which include some or all of the following: • Assessment of success in the portfolio company’s overall adherence to its business plan and compliance with covenants; • Attendance at and participation in meetings of the portfolio company’s Board of Directors; • Periodic contact, including formal update interviews with portfolio company management, and, if appropriate, the financial or strategic sponsor; • Comparison with other companies in the portfolio company’s industry; and • Review of monthly and quarterly financial statements and financial projections for portfolio companies. Managerial Assistance and Services As a business development company, we make available significant managerial assistance to our portfolio companies and provide other services to such portfolio companies. Neither we nor our Adviser receives fees in connection with managerial assistance, however, our Adviser may provide other services to our portfolio companies and may receive fees for other services it provides to a portfolio company and those fees would then be partially credited against the investment advisory fees that we pay to our Adviser. Valuation Process We carry our assets at fair value. A portion of our investment portfolio consists of securities for which a limited market does not exist and are not publicly traded. As of March 31, 2006, four of our investments were valued by Standard & Poor’s Loan Evaluations Service (“S&P). In fiscal 2007, to value these securities, we intend to provide loan portfolio data S&P for its independent review. S&P will provide an independent assessment of the loan portfolio data provided by us and will assess its own data to develop recommendations as to market values for these securities. Supported by our internal valuations and S&P estimates, our Board of Directors will vote to accept or not accept the analyses and values recommended by our management and S&P. If an event comes to the attention of our Board of Directors subsequent to the S&P valuation date, our Board of Directors may alter the S&P valuation in order to present a more accurate reflection of the fair value of an investment. Due to the uncertainty inherent in the valuation process for these securities, such estimates of fair value may differ significantly from the values that would have been obtained had a ready market for the securities existed, and the differences could be material. Additionally, changes in the market environment and other events that may occur over the life of the investments may cause the gains or losses ultimately realized on these investments to be different than the valuations currently assigned. Securities in our portfolio that are publicly traded, if any, are valued at the closing price of the exchange or securities market on which they are listed on the valuation date (to date there are no publicly traded securities in our portfolio). Securities in our portfolio which are not publicly traded on an exchange or securities market, but for which a limited 6 market exists, such as participations in syndicated loans, are valued at the indicative bid price offered by the syndication agent on the valuation date. A substantial portion of our assets will consist of securities carried at fair market value, as determined by our Board of Directors. Determination of fair market values for those securities and investments not valued by S&P involves subjective judgment not susceptible to substantiation by auditing procedures. Accordingly, under generally accepted accounting principles, the notes to our consolidated financial statements will refer to the uncertainty with respect to the possible effect of such valuations on our financial statements. The net asset value per share of our outstanding shares is determined quarterly, as soon as practicable after and as of the end of each calendar quarter, by dividing the value of total assets minus liabilities by the actual number of shares outstanding at the date as of which the determination is made. Investment Advisory and Management Agreement We have entered into an investment advisory and management agreement with GMC, which is controlled by our chairman and chief executive officer. In accordance with the investment advisory and management agreement, we will pay GMC a fee, as compensation for its services, consisting of a base management fee and an incentive fee. The base management fee is assessed at an annual rate of 2% computed on the basis of our gross invested assets, which are total assets less the cash proceeds and cash and cash equivalent investments from the proceeds of our initial public offering that are not invested in debt and equity securities of portfolio companies. Through March 31, 2006, the base management fee was computed and payable monthly. Subsequent to March 31, 2006, the base management fee will be computed and payable quarterly to GMC. Beginning in periods subsequent to June 30, 2006, the base management fee will be assessed at an annual rate of 2% computed on the basis of our gross assets, which are total assets, including investments made with proceeds of borrowings, less any uninvested cash or cash equivalents resulting from borrowings. This calculation was set to begin in periods after March 31, 2006, however, on April 11, 2006 our Board of Directors accepted a voluntary waiver from GMC that will allow the current calculation of the base management fee to be effective through June 30, 2006. GMC receives fees from our portfolio companies, such as investment banking fees, structuring fees or executive recruiting services fees, one half of these fees will be credited against the base management fee that we would otherwise be required to pay to GMC. The incentive fee consists of two parts: an income-based incentive fee and a capital gains incentive fee. The income-based incentive fee is calculated and payable quarterly in arrears based on our pre-incentive fee net investment income for the immediately preceding calendar quarter. For this purpose, “pre-incentive fee net investment income” means interest income, dividend income, and any other income, including any other fees (other than fees for providing managerial assistance) such as commitment, origination, structuring, diligence and consulting fees, and other fees that we receive from portfolio companies accrued during the calendar quarter, minus operating expenses for the quarter (including the base management fee, expenses payable under the administration agreement, operating expenses that we pay directly, and any interest expense and dividends paid on any issued and outstanding preferred stock, but excluding the incentive fee). Pre-incentive fee net investment income includes, in the case of investments with a deferred interest feature (such as securities issued with original issue discount, debt instruments with payment-in-kind interest, and zero coupon securities), accrued income that we have not yet received in cash. Thus, if we do not have sufficient liquid assets to pay this incentive fee or distributions to stockholders on such accrued income, we may be required to liquidate assets or borrow money in order to do so. Pre-incentive fee net investment income does not include any realized capital gains, realized capital losses, or unrealized capital appreciation or depreciation. Pre-incentive fee net investment income, expressed as a rate of return on the value of our net assets at the end of the immediately preceding calendar quarter, will be compared to a “hurdle rate” of 1.75% of our net assets per quarter (7% annualized). For this purpose, “net assets” means total assets less total liabilities and less preferred stock if any. Because the hurdle rate is fixed and has been based on current interest rates, if interest rates increase, it would become easier for investment income to exceed the hurdle rate and, as a result, more likely that GMC will receive an income-based incentive fee than if interest rates on our investments remained constant. On the other hand, if interest rates rise, there will be greater risk that small and medium-sized businesses cannot make payments, which risk may result in fewer opportunities to make safe investments. Our net investment income used to calculate this income-based portion of the incentive fee is also included in the amount of gross assets used to calculate the 2% base management fee. We will pay GMC an income-based incentive fee with respect to its pre-incentive fee net investment income in each calendar quarter as follows: • no incentive fee in any calendar quarter in which pre-incentive fee net investment income does not exceed the hurdle rate of 1.75% (7% annualized); 7 • 100% of pre-incentive fee net investment income with respect to that portion of such pre-incentive fee net investment income, if any, that exceeds the hurdle rate but is less than 125% of the hurdle rate (2.1875%) in any calendar quarter (8.75% annualized). This portion of the income-based incentive fee is referred to as the “catch-up.” The “catch-up” provision is intended to provide GMC with an incentive fee of 20% on all of pre-incentive fee net investment income up to 125% of the quarterly hurdle rate once the hurdle rate has been surpassed; and • 20% of the amount of pre-incentive fee net investment income, if any, that exceeds 125% of the quarterly hurdle rate of 2.1875% in any calendar quarter (8.75% annualized). The foregoing calculations will be appropriately pro rated for any period of less than three months and adjusted for any share issuances or repurchases made during the current quarter. The capital gains incentive fee will be determined and payable annually in arrears as of the end of each fiscal year (or upon termination of the investment advisory agreement, as of the termination date), commencing on March 31, 2006, and will equal 20.0% of the realized capital gains since inception through the end of the current fiscal year, if any, computed net of all realized capital losses, and unrealized capital depreciation since inception at the end of each fiscal year. In determining the capital gains incentive fee payable to GMC, we will calculate the cumulative aggregate realized capital gains and cumulative aggregate realized capital losses and depreciation since inception to the end of the current fiscal year with respect to each of the investments in the portfolio. For this purpose, cumulative aggregate realized capital gains, if any, will equal the sum of the differences between the net sales price of each investment, when sold, and the original cost of such investment since inception. Cumulative aggregate realized capital losses will equal the sum of the amounts by which the net sales price of each investment, when sold, is less than the original cost of such investment since inception. Aggregate unrealized capital depreciation will equal the sum of the difference, if negative, between the valuation of each investment as of the applicable calculation date and the original cost of such investment adjusted for any repayments of principal thereon. At the end of the applicable fiscal year, the amount of net capital gains (after losses and depreciation) that will serve as the basis for the calculation of the capital gains incentive fee will equal the cumulative aggregate realized capital gains less cumulative aggregate realized capital losses, less aggregate unrealized capital depreciation, with respect to the portfolio of investments. If this number is positive at the end of such fiscal year, then the capital gains incentive fee for such year will be equal to 20% of such amount, less the aggregate amount of any capital gains incentive fees paid in respect of the portfolio since inception. Because of the structure of the incentive fee, it is possible that we may have to pay an incentive fee in a quarter where we incurr a loss. For example, we receive pre-incentive fee net investment income in excess of the hurdle rate for a quarter, we will pay the applicable income incentive fee even if we have incurred a loss in that quarter due to realized or unrealized capital depreciation on investments. Administration Agreement We have entered into an administration agreement with Gladstone Administration, LLC (“Gladstone Administration”), a wholly owned subsidiary of GMC, which is controlled by our chairman and chief executive officer. Pursuant to the administration agreement, Gladstone Administration furnishes us with office facilities, equipment and clerical, bookkeeping and record keeping services at such facilities and performs, or oversees the performance of our required administrative services. Such required administrative services include, among other things, being responsible for the financial records which we are required to maintain and preparing reports to our stockholders and reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The administration agreement requires us to reimburse Gladstone Administration for the performance of its obligations under the administration agreement based upon our allocable portion of Gladstone Administration’s overhead, including, but not limited to, rent and our allocable portion of the salaries and benefits of our chief financial officer, chief compliance officer, controller and their respective staffs. Our allocable portion of expenses is derived by multiplying Gladstone Administration’s total expenses by the percentage of our average assets (the assets at the beginning and ending of each quarter) in comparison to the average assets of all companies managed by GMC. Currently, GMC manages us and our affiliates Gladstone Capital Corporation, Gladstone Commercial Corporation and Gladstone Land Corporation. License Agreement We have entered into a license agreement with GMC, pursuant to which GMC has granted us a non-exclusive license to use the name “Gladstone” and the “Diamond G” trademark. This license agreement requires us to pay GMC a royalty fee of $1 per quarter. The amount of the fee is negotiable on an annual basis by our compensation committee and approved by a majority of our independent directors. The license arrangement will terminate in the event that GMC is no longer our Adviser. 8 Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations Regulated Investment Company Status In order to maintain the qualification for treatment as a regulated investment company, or RIC, under Subchapter M of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the “Code”), we must distribute to our stockholders, for each taxable year, at least 90% of our investment company taxable income, which is generally our ordinary income plus short-term capital gains. We refer to this as the annual distribution requirement. We must also meet several additional requirements, including: • Income source requirements. At least 90% of our gross income for each taxable year must be from dividends, interest, payments with respect to securities loans, gains from sales or other dispositions of securities or other income derived with respect to our business of investing in securities, and • Asset diversification requirements. As of the close of each quarter of our taxable year: (1) at least 50% of the value of our assets must consist of cash, cash items, US government securities, the securities of other regulated investment companies and other securities to the extent that (a) we do not hold more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of an issuer of such other securities and (b) such other securities of any one issuer do not represent more than 5% of our total assets, and (2) no more than 25% of the value of our total assets may be invested in the securities of one issuer (other than US government securities or the securities of other regulated investment companies), or of two or more issuers that are controlled by us and are engaged in the same or similar or related trades or businesses. If we are unable to qualify for treatment as a RIC, we will be subject to tax on all of our taxable income at regular corporate rates. We would not be able to deduct distributions to stockholders, nor would we be required to make such distributions. Distributions would be taxable to our stockholders as ordinary dividend income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. Subject to certain limitations under the Code, corporate distributees would be eligible for the dividends received deduction. Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits would be treated first as a return of capital to the extent of the stockholder’s tax basis, and then as a gain realized from the sale or exchange of property. If we fail to meet the RIC requirements for more than two consecutive years and then seek to requalify as a RIC, we would be required to recognize a gain to the extent of any unrealized appreciation on our assets unless we make a special election to pay corporate-level tax on any such unrealized appreciation recognized during the succeeding 10-year period. Absent such special election, any gain we recognized would be deemed distributed to our stockholders as a taxable distribution. If we qualify as a RIC and distribute to stockholders each year in a timely manner at least 90% of our investment company taxable income, we will not be subject to federal income tax on the portion of our taxable income and gains we distribute to stockholders. We would, however, be subject to a 4% nondeductible federal excise tax if we do not distribute, actually or on a deemed basis, 98% of our income, including both ordinary income and capital gains. The excise tax would apply only to the amount by which 98% of our income exceeds the amount of income we distribute, actually or on a deemed basis, to stockholders. We will be subject to regular corporate income tax, currently at rates up to 35%, on any undistributed income, including both ordinary income and capital gains. We intend to retain some or all of our capital gains, but to designate the retained amount as a deemed distribution. In that case, among other consequences, we will pay tax on the retained amount, each stockholder will be required to include its share of the deemed distribution in income as if it had been actually distributed to the stockholder and the stockholder will be entitled to claim a credit or refund equal to its allocable share of the tax we pay on the retained capital gain. The amount of the deemed distribution net of such tax will be added to the stockholder’s cost basis for its common stock. Since we expect to pay tax on any retained capital gains at our regular corporate capital gain tax rate, and since that rate is in excess of the maximum rate currently payable by individuals on long-term capital gains, the amount of tax that individual stockholders will be treated as having paid will exceed the tax they owe on the capital gain dividend and such excess may be claimed as a credit or refund against the stockholder’s other tax obligations. A stockholder that is not subject to US federal income tax or tax on long-term capital gains would be required to file a US federal income tax return on the appropriate form in order to claim a refund for the taxes we paid. In order to utilize the deemed distribution approach, we must provide written notice to the stockholders prior to the expiration of 60 days after the close of the relevant tax year. We will also be subject to alternative minimum tax, but any tax preference items would be apportioned between us and our stockholders in the same proportion that dividends, other than capital gain dividends, paid to each stockholder bear to our taxable income determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction. If we acquire debt obligations that were originally issued at a discount, which would generally include loans we make that are 9 accompanied by warrants, that bear interest at rates that are not either fixed rates or certain qualified variable rates or that are not unconditionally payable at least annually over the life of the obligation, we will be required to include in taxable income each year a portion of the “original issue discount” that accrues over the life of the obligation. Such original issue discount will be included in our investment company taxable income even though we receive no cash corresponding to such discount amount. As a result, we may be required to make additional distributions corresponding to such original issue discount amounts in order to satisfy the annual distribution requirement and to continue to qualify as a RIC or to avoid the 4% excise tax. In this event, we may be required to sell temporary investments or other assets to meet the RIC distribution requirements. Through March 31, 2006, we incurred no original issue discount income. For any period during which we qualify for treatment as a RIC for federal income tax purposes, distributions to our stockholders attributable to our investment company taxable income generally will be taxable as ordinary income to stockholders to the extent of our current or accumulated earnings and profits. Any distributions in excess of our earnings and profits will first be treated as a return of capital to the extent of the stockholder’s adjusted basis in his or her shares of common stock and thereafter as gain from the sale of shares of our common stock. Distributions of our long-term capital gains, designated by us as such, will be taxable to stockholders as long-term capital gains regardless of the stockholder’s holding period for its common stock and whether the distributions are paid in cash or invested in additional common stock. Corporate stockholders are generally eligible for the 70% dividends received deduction with respect to ordinary income, but not to capital gains dividends to the extent such amount designated by us does not exceed the dividends received by us from domestic corporations. Any dividend declared by us in October, November or December of any calendar year, payable to stockholders of record on a specified date in such a month and actually paid during January of the following year, will be treated as if it were paid by us and received by the stockholders on December 31 of the previous year. In addition, we may elect to relate a dividend back to the prior taxable year if we (1) declare such dividend prior to the due date for filing our return for that taxable year, (2) make the election in that return, and (3) distribute the amount in the 12-month period following the close of the taxable year but not later than the first regular dividend payment following the declaration. Any such election will not alter the general rule that a stockholder will be treated as receiving a dividend in the taxable year in which the distribution is made, subject to the October, November, December rule described above. The “Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003” did not alter the nature of our dividends that we pay to stockholders as taxable ordinary income. Accordingly, our dividends paid are not eligible for the lower tax rate. Regulation as a Business Development Company We are a closed-end, non-diversified management investment company that has elected to be regulated as a business development company under Section 54 of the 1940 Act. As such, we are subject to regulation under the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act contains prohibitions and restrictions relating to transactions between business development companies and their affiliates, principal underwriters and affiliates of those affiliates or underwriters and requires that a majority of the directors be persons other than “interested persons,” as defined in the 1940 Act. In addition, the 1940 Act provides that we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or to withdraw our election as, a business development company unless approved by a majority of our outstanding voting securities. We intend to conduct our business so as to retain our status as a business development company. A business development company may use capital provided by public shareholders and from other sources to invest in long-term private investments in businesses. A business development company provides shareholders the ability to retain the liquidity of a publicly traded stock while sharing in the possible benefits, if any, of investing in primarily privately owned companies. In general, a business development company must have been organized and have its principal place of business in the United States and must be operated for the purpose of making investments in the types of securities described in (1) or (2) below. Qualifying Assets Under the 1940 Act, a business development company may not acquire any asset other than assets of the type listed in Section 55(a) of the 1940 Act, which are referred to as qualifying assets, unless, at the time the acquisition is made, qualifying assets represent at least 70% of the company’s total assets. The types of qualifying assets in which we may invest under the 1940 Act include, but are not limited to the following: (1) Securities purchased in transactions not involving any public offering from the issuer of such securities, which issuer is an eligible portfolio company. An eligible portfolio company is generally defined in the 1940 Act as any issuer which, first, is organized under the laws of, and has its principal place of business in, the United States. Second, the issuer must not be an investment company, other than a small business investment company wholly owned by the 10 business development company. Finally, the issuer may not have any class of publicly traded securities with respect to which a broker or dealer may extend margin credit. (2) Securities of any eligible portfolio company over which we exercise a controlling influence and for which an affiliate of ours serves as a director. (3) Securities received in exchange for or distributed on or with respect to securities described in (1) or (2) above, or pursuant to the exercise of options, warrants or rights relating to such securities. (4) Cash, cash items, government securities or high quality debt securities maturing in one year or less from the time of investment. Securities of public companies are generally not qualifying assets unless they were acquired in a distribution or in exchange for, or upon the exercise of, a right relating to securities that were qualifying assets. Asset Coverage We are permitted, under specified conditions, to issue multiple classes of indebtedness and one class of stock senior to our common stock if our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, is at least 200% immediately after each such issuance. In addition, while senior securities are outstanding, we must make provisions to prohibit any distribution to our stockholders or the repurchase of such securities or shares unless we meet the applicable asset coverage ratios at the time of the distribution or repurchase. We may also borrow amounts up to 5% of the value of our total assets for temporary purposes. The 1940 Act requires, among other things, that (1) immediately after issuance and before any dividend or distribution is made with respect to our common stock or before any purchase of common stock is made, the preferred stock, together with all other senior securities, must not exceed an amount equal to 50% of our total assets after deducting the amount of such dividend, distribution or purchase price, as the case may be, and (2) the holders of shares of preferred stock, if any are issued, must be entitled as a class to elect two directors at all times and to elect a majority of the directors if dividends on the preferred stock are in arrears by two years or more. Significant Managerial Assistance For portfolio securities to be qualifying assets for the 70% test described above, the business development company must either exercise a controlling influence over the issuer of the securities or must make available to the issuer of the securities significant managerial assistance. However, with respect to certain but not all such securities, where the business development company purchases such securities in conjunction with one or more other persons acting together, one of the other persons in the group may make available such managerial assistance, or the business development company may exercise such control jointly. Making available significant managerial assistance means, among other things, any arrangement whereby the business development company, through its directors, officers or employees, offers to provide, and, if accepted, does so provide, significant guidance and counsel concerning the management, operations or business objectives and policies of a portfolio company. Fundamental Investment Policies We seek to achieve a high level of current income and capital gains through investments in debt securities and preferred and common stock that we acquired in connection with buyout and other recapitalizations. The following restrictions, along with these investment objectives, are our only fundamental policies, which are policies that may not be changed without the approval of the holders of the majority of our outstanding voting securities, as defined in the 1940 Act. For a fuller explanation of the regulatory framework in which we operate, see “Business-Regulation as a Business Development Company.” The percentage restrictions set forth below, other than the restriction pertaining to the issuance of senior securities, as well as those contained elsewhere in this Form 10-K, apply at the time we effect a transaction, and a subsequent change in a percentage resulting from market fluctuations or any cause other than an action by us will not require us to dispose of portfolio securities or to take other action to satisfy the percentage restriction. We will at all times conduct our business so as to retain our status as a business development company. In order to retain that status, we may not acquire any assets (other than non-investment assets necessary and appropriate to our operations as a business development company) if, after giving effect to such acquisition, the value of our “qualifying assets” is less than 70% of the value of our total assets. We anticipate that the securities we seek to acquire (provided that we control or, through our officers or other participants in the financing transaction, make significant managerial assistance available to the issuers of these securities), as well as temporary investments, will generally be qualifying assets. We may invest up to 100% of our assets in securities acquired directly from issuers in privately negotiated transactions. With respect to 11 such securities, we may, for the purpose of public resale, be deemed an “underwriter” as that term is defined in the Securities Act. We may invest up to 20% of our assets in securities of a particular issuer. We may exceed this limitation in connection with bridge financings, although these bridge investments will never exceed 25% of our total assets at any time. We do not intend to concentrate our investments in any particular industry or group of industries. However, it is possible that, as the values of our portfolio companies change, one industry or a group of industries may comprise in excess of 25% of the value of our total assets. We will at all times endeavor to conduct our business so as to retain our status as a regulated investment company under the 1940 Act. In order to do so, we must meet income source, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. We may issue senior securities, such as debt or preferred stock, to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act for the purpose of making investments, to fund share repurchases, or for temporary emergency or other purposes. For a discussion of the risks associated with the resulting leverage, see “Business—Leverage” and “Risk Factors—Our business is dependent upon external financing which may expose us to the risks associated with leverage.” We will not (1) act as an underwriter of securities of other issuers (except to the extent that we may be deemed an “underwriter” of securities we purchase that must be registered under the Securities Act before they may be offered or sold to the public); (2) purchase or sell real estate or interests in real estate or real estate investment trusts (except that we may (a) purchase and sell real estate or interests in real estate in connection with the orderly liquidation of investments, (b) own the securities of companies or participate in a partnership or partnerships that are in the business of buying, selling or developing real estate, or (c) finance the purchase of real estate by our portfolio companies); (3) sell securities short (except with regard to managing the risks associated with publicly-traded securities issued by our portfolio companies); (4) purchase securities on margin (except to the extent that we may purchase securities with borrowed money); (5) write or buy put or call options (except (i) to the extent of warrants or conversion privileges in connection with our acquisition financing or other investments and rights to require the issuers of such investments or their affiliates to repurchase them under certain circumstances, (ii) with regard to managing risks associated with publicly-traded securities issued by our portfolio companies, or (iii) with regard to managing the risks associated with interest rate fluctuations); (6) engage in the purchase or sale of commodities or commodity contracts, including futures contracts (except where necessary in working out distressed loan or investment situations or in managing the risks associated with interest rate fluctuations); or (7) acquire more than 3% of the voting stock of, or invest more than 5% of our total assets in, any securities issued by any other investment company (except as they may be acquired as part of a merger, consolidation or acquisition of assets). That portion of our investments that is in securities issued by other investment companies may subject our stockholders to additional expenses. Code of Ethics We and our Adviser have each adopted a code of ethics and business conduct applicable to our officers, directors and all employees that comply with the guidelines set forth in Item 406 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Act. As required by the 1940 Act, this code establishes procedures for personal investments, restricts certain transactions by our personnel and requires the reporting of certain transactions and holdings by our personnel. A copy of this code is available for review, free of charge, at our website at www.gladstoneinvestment.com. We intend to provide disclosure of any amendments to or waivers of the provisions of this code by posting information regarding any such amendment or waiver to our website within four days of its effectiveness. Compliance Policies and Procedures We and our Adviser have adopted and implemented written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of the federal securities laws, and our Board of Directors is required to review these compliance policies and procedures annually to assess their adequacy and the effectiveness of their implementation. We have designated a chief compliance officer, Allyson Williams, who also serves as chief compliance officer for our Adviser. Staffing We do not currently have any employees and do not expect to have any employees in the foreseeable future. Currently, services necessary for our business are provided by individuals who are employees of GMC and Gladstone Administration pursuant to the terms of the investment advisory and management agreement and administration agreement. Each of our executive officers is an employee and executive officer of GMC or Gladstone Administration. No employee of GMC or Gladstone Administration will dedicate all of his or her time to us. However, we expect that 20-25 full time employees of GMC will spend substantial time on our matters during the calendar year 2007. We anticipated that the number of employees of GMC and Gladstone Administration who devote time to our matters will increase as we acquire more investments. 12 As of March 31, 2006, GMC and Gladstone Administration had 38 full-time employees. As of March 31, 2006 a break-down of GMC’s and Gladstone Administration’s 38 full-time employees by functional area is summarized in the table below: Number of Individuals Functional Area 4 Executive Management (Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Investment Officer and Chief Financial Officer) 24 Investment Management, Portfolio Management, and Due Diligence 10 Administration, Accounting, Compliance, Human Resources, Investor Relations and Treasury. Available Information: Copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments, if any, to those reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available free of charge through our website at www.gladstoneinvestment.com. A request for any of these reports may also be submitted to us by sending a written request addressed to Investor Relations Manager, Gladstone Investment Corporation, 1521 Westbranch Drive, Suite 200, McLean, VA 22102, or by calling our toll-free investor relations line at 1-866-366-5745. The public may read and copy materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a number of significant risks and other factors relating to our structure and investment objectives. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will achieve our investment objectives. You should consider carefully the following information before making an investment in our securities. We are a new company with limited operating history. We were incorporated in Delaware on February 18, 2005. We are subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business, including the risk that we will not achieve our investment objectives and that the value of your investment could decline substantially. We anticipate that it will take us up to two years to invest substantially all of the net proceeds of our initial public offering. During this period, we will invest in temporary investments, such as cash and cash equivalents, and then senior secured loans, all of which we expect will earn yields substantially lower than the interest income that we anticipate receiving with respect to investments in subordinated debt, mezzanine debt, preferred stock and other types of investments we may make. As a result, our dividends may be substantially lower than the dividends that we expect to pay when our portfolio is fully invested. We are dependent upon our key management personnel and the key management personnel of our Adviser for our future success, particularly David Gladstone, George Stelljes III and Terry Lee Brubaker. We are dependent on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of our senior management and other management members for the final selection, structuring, closing and monitoring of our investments. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of our senior management team, particularly David Gladstone, our chairman and chief executive officer, George Stelljes III, our president and chief investment officer, and Terry Lee Brubaker, our vice-chairman and chief operating officer. The departure of any of our executive officers or key employees from us or from our adviser, GMC, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our business strategy and to achieve our investment objectives. We are dependent on our Adviser’s continued operations and may not find a suitable replacement if our Adviser discontinues operations or terminates the investment advisory agreement. We have no employees. We expect that our chief executive officer, chief operating officer, chief investment officer and chief financial officer, and the employees of our Adviser, will not spend all of their time managing our activities and our investment portfolio. Our executive officers and the employees of our Adviser may allocate some, or a material portion, of their time to businesses and activities that are not related to our business. We have no separate facilities and are completely reliant on our Adviser, which has significant 13 discretion as to the implementation and execution of our business strategies and risk management practices. We are subject to the risk of discontinuation of our Adviser’s operations or termination of the investment advisory agreement and the risk that, upon such event, no suitable replacement will be found. We believe that our success depends to a significant extent upon our Adviser and that discontinuation of its operations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objectives. Our financial condition and results of operation will depend on our ability to manage future growth effectively. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives will depend on our ability to grow, which in turn will depend on GMC’s ability to identify, invest in, and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis will largely be a function of GMC’s structuring of the investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us, and our access to financing on acceptable terms. The executive officers of GMC will have substantial responsibilities under the investment advisory and management agreement, as well as in connection with their roles as officers of Gladstone Commercial Corporation, Gladstone Capital Corporation, GMC and other entities managed by our Adviser (“the Gladstone Companies”). They may also be called upon to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. These demands on their time may distract them or slow the rate at which they are able to invest our assets. In order for us to grow, GMC will need to hire, train, supervise, and manage new investment professionals and supporting employees. However, we can offer no assurance that GMC will be able to find and/or hire new investment professionals or supporting employees or that any such employees will contribute to the work of GMC. Any failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not invest the proceeds of our initial offering in a timely manner, our returns to stockholders will be significantly lower. We have estimated that it may take us up to two years to invest all the cash proceeds from our initial offering in the types of investments we intend to make. We can give no assurance that we will be successful in meeting that estimate. To the extent that it takes us longer to invest the cash proceeds from our initial public offering, the returns to stockholders are likely to be less than if we invested the proceeds over the time period we have allotted. If our primary investments are deemed not to be qualifying assets, we could lose our status as a business development company or be precluded from investing according to our current business plan. If we are to maintain our status as a business development company, we must not acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, at the time of and after giving effect to each such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. If we acquire mezzanine loans or dividend-paying equity securities from an issuer that has outstanding marginable securities at the time we make an investment, these acquired assets cannot be treated as qualifying assets. See “Regulation as a Business Development Company — Qualifying Assets.” This results from the definition of “eligible portfolio company” under the 1940 Act, which in part looks to whether a company has outstanding marginable securities. Amendments promulgated in 1998 by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to Regulation T under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, expanded the definition of marginable security to include any non-equity security. These amendments have raised questions as to whether a private company that has outstanding debt securities would qualify as an eligible portfolio company. We believe that the junior debt and equity instruments that we expect to make should constitute qualifying assets because the privately held companies in which we invest will generally not, at the time of our investment, have outstanding marginable securities. Until the questions raised by the amendments to Regulation T have been clarified through SEC rulemaking or addressed by legislative, administrative, or judicial action, we intend to treat as qualifying assets only those loans that are not investment grade, do not have a public secondary market, and are issued by a private issuer that does not have outstanding a class of margin-eligible securities at the time of our investment. Likewise, we will treat equity securities issued by a portfolio company as qualifying assets only if such securities are issued by a private company that has no marginable securities outstanding at the time we purchase such securities. To date, we do not believe that either the SEC or its staff has taken any position with respect to our analysis of the issues discussed above, and neither the SEC nor its staff has indicated that it concurs with our analysis. We intend to adjust our investment focus as needed to comply with and/or take advantage of any future administrative position, judicial decision or legislative action. The SEC has recently proposed amendments to the rules concerning business development companies that would clarify that, among other things, companies that do not have a class of securities listed on an exchange or NASDAQ would be considered eligible portfolio companies. 14 Further, separate and similar legislation, entitled the “Increased Capital Access for Growing Businesses Act,” has been introduced in both the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate. If passed in current form, the legislation would strike the 1940 Act language that ties the definition of eligible portfolio company to whether a company has outstanding marginable securities. In lieu of this language, the legislation would provide that, among other things, companies that do not have a class of securities listed on a national securities exchange would be considered eligible portfolio companies. The legislation introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives, H.R. 436, was passed unanimously and referred to the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs in April 2005. The U.S. Senate bill, S. 1396, was introduced and referred to the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs in July 2005. There can be no guarantee that this legislation will be passed and become effective without substantial amendment, if it becomes effective at all. Unless and until the proposed rules or legislation described above are adopted or passed , if there were a court ruling or regulatory decision that conflicted with our interpretations, we could lose our status as a business development company or be precluded from investing in the manner described in this prospectus. This in turn could cause us to lose our status as a RIC. Any of these results would have a material adverse effect on our ability to invest in the manner described in this prospectus, on our operating results, financial condition and ability to pay dividends, and on the value of our common stock. See “—Regulations governing our operation as a business development company will affect our ability to and the way in which we raise additional capital.” Such a ruling or decision also may require us to dispose of investments that we made based on our interpretation of Regulation T. Such dispositions could have a material adverse effect on our stockholders. We may need to dispose of such investments quickly, which would make it difficult to dispose of such investments on favorable terms. In addition, because these types of investments will generally be illiquid, we may have difficulty finding a buyer and, even if we do find a buyer, we may have to sell the investments at a substantial loss. See “Risk Factors—The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business.” Our Adviser’s failure to identify and invest in securities that meet our investment criteria or perform its responsibilities under the investment advisory agreement may adversely affect our ability for future growth. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives will depend on our ability to grow, which in turn will depend on our Adviser’s ability to identify and invest in securities that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis will be largely a function of our Adviser’s structuring of the investment process, its ability to provide competent and efficient services to us, and our access to financing on acceptable terms. The senior management team of our Adviser has substantial responsibilities under the investment advisory agreement. In order to grow, our Adviser will need to hire, train supervise and manage new employees successfully. Any failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A number of entities will compete with us for investments in small and mid-sized companies. We will compete with public and private buyout funds, commercial and investment banks, commercial financing companies, and, to the extent they provide an alternative form of financing, hedge funds. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which would allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a business development company. The competitive pressures we face could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. We will not seek to compete primarily based on the interest rates we will offer, and we believe that some of our competitors may make loans with interest rates that will be comparable to or lower than the rates we offer. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms, and structure. If we match our competitors’ pricing, terms, and structure, we may experience decreased net interest income and increased risk of credit loss. 15 Regulations governing our operation as a business development company will affect our ability to and the way in which we raise additional capital. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities,” up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Senior securities are defined by the 1940 Act to include bonds, debentures, notes or similar obligations or instruments that are securities and evidence indebtedness and stock of a class having priority over any other class as to distribution of assets or payment of dividends. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we will be permitted, as a business development company, to issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. We are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock or warrants, options, or rights to acquire our common stock at a price below the current net asset value of the common stock if our Board of Directors determines that such sale is in our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders, and our stockholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price which, in the determination of our Board of Directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). In addition to issuing securities to raise capital as described above, we may in the future seek to securitize certain of our assets to generate cash for funding new investments. Securitization involves our creating a wholly-owned subsidiary and contributing a pool of loans to the subsidiary, which then would deposit the loans to a single purpose trust. The trust would then typically sell a class of investment grade interests to the public, and we would retain a residual portion of the equity in the securitized pool of loans. The declaration of trust for the securitization entity would typically provide for preferential distributions of interest, principal and liquidation proceeds to the holders other than the holder of the residual equity. Accordingly, in a securitization transaction, the residual equity that we would retain would typically bear greater risk than if we held all the loans comprising the securitized pool in their entirety. An inability to successfully securitize our loan portfolio could limit our ability to grow our business, fully execute our business strategy, and decrease our earnings, if any. Moreover, the successful securitization of our loan portfolio might expose us to losses as the residual loans in which we do not sell interests will tend to be those that are riskier and more apt to generate losses. If we issue senior securities, including debt, we will be exposed to additional risks, including the typical risks associated with leverage. We will be exposed to increased risk of loss if we incur debt to make investments. If we do incur debt, a decrease in the value of our investments would have a greater negative impact on the value of our common stock than if we did not use debt. Our ability to pay dividends would be restricted if our asset coverage ratio was not at least 200%, and any amounts that we would use to service our indebtedness would not be available for dividends to our common stockholders. It is likely that any senior debt securities we issue will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. We, and indirectly our stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. Any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock. We will be exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates. General interest rate fluctuations may have a substantial negative impact on our investments and investment opportunities and, accordingly, may have a material adverse effect on investment objectives and our rate of return on invested capital. In addition, an increase in interest rates would make it more expensive to use debt to finance our investments. Many of our portfolio investments will be recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors based on recommendations by Standard & Poor’s Evaluation Service, who recommends values using its own methodology; this may result in uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. A large percentage of our portfolio investments will be in the form of securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. Our Board of Directors will determine the fair 16 value of these securities quarterly, and will use the recommendations of Standard & Poor’s’ Evaluation Service (“S&P”) to determine the value of many of our debt securities. The types of factors that may be considered in determining the fair value of our investments include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s earnings and cash flows and its ability to make payments on its obligations, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to publicly traded companies, discounted cash flow, and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time, and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that might have resulted from a readily available market for these securities. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such securities. At this time S&P will only evaluate the debt portion of our investments, and our Board of Directors will establish the fair value of the equity securities we may hold without the evaluation of S&P. Because the loans we make and equity securities we receive when we make loans are not publicly traded, there will be uncertainty regarding the value of our privately held securities that could adversely affect our determination of our net asset value. We expect that very few, if any, of our portfolio loans or equity securities, at least initially, will be publicly traded or have a readily determinable market value. We value these securities based on a determination of their fair value, based on recommendations provided by S&P and management and approved by our Board of Directors. Due to the uncertainty inherent in valuing these securities, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would exist if a ready market for these securities existed. Our net asset value could be materially affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments are materially different from the values that we ultimately realize on our disposal of such securities. The lack of liquidity of our privately held investments may adversely affect our business. We will generally make investments in private companies whose securities are not traded in any public market. Substantially all of these securities will be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale and will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize substantial book losses upon liquidation. In addition, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we, GMC, or our respective officers, employees or affiliates have material non-public information regarding such portfolio company. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including the interest rates payable on the debt securities we acquire, the default rates on such securities, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets, and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. There are significant potential conflicts of interest which could impact our investment returns. Our executive officers and directors, and the officers and directors of our investment adviser, GMC, serve or may serve as officers, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business as we do or of investment funds managed by our affiliates. Accordingly, they may have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. For example, Mr. Gladstone, our chairman and chief executive officer, is the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of GMC, Gladstone Capital and Gladstone Commercial. In addition, Mr. Brubaker, our vice chairman and secretary is either the vice-chairman or president, chief operating officer and secretary of GMC, Gladstone Capital and Gladstone Commercial. Moreover, GMC may establish or sponsor other investment vehicles which from time to time may have potentially overlapping investment objectives with those of the Company and accordingly may invest in, whether principally or secondarily, asset classes similar to those targeted by the Company. While GMC generally has broad authority to make investments on behalf of the investment vehicles that it advises, GMC has adopted investment allocation procedures to address these potential conflicts and intends to direct investment opportunities to the our Gladstone affiliate with the investment strategy that most closely fits the investment opportunity. Nevertheless, the management of GMC may face conflicts in the allocation of investment opportunities to other entities managed by GMC. As a result, it is possible that we may not be given the opportunity to participate in certain investments made by other members of the Gladstone Group or investment funds managed by investment managers affiliated with GMC. 17 While we will not invest in any portfolio company in which any of our affiliates currently has an investment, our affiliate, Gladstone Commercial, may purchase property from or lease property to portfolio companies that we do not control under certain circumstances. We may pursue such transactions only if (i) the portfolio company is not controlled by us or any of our affiliates, (ii) the portfolio company satisfies the tenant underwriting criteria or owns real estate that meets the lease underwriting criteria of Gladstone Commercial, and (iii) the transaction is approved by a majority of our independent directors and a majority of the independent directors of Gladstone Commercial. We expect that any such negotiations between Gladstone Commercial and our portfolio companies would result in lease terms consistent with the terms that the portfolio companies would be likely to receive were they not portfolio companies of ours. However, if Gladstone Commercial provides a lease to a current or prospective portfolio company of ours, it is likely that there will be a conflict of interest in connection with such a transaction. There is a risk that, for Gladstone Commercial to provide a lease to a portfolio company, there could be situations where we enter into a transaction that is riskier than we would customarily make in order to enable Gladstone Commercial, or another affiliate, to provide the lease portion of the financing; this carries a greater risk of default. If any of these risks were to materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate cash flow to make distributions to stockholders. Certain of our officers, who are also officers of GMC, may from time to time serve as directors of certain of our portfolio companies. If an officer serves in such capacity with one of our portfolio companies, such officer will owe fiduciary duties to all shareholders of the portfolio company, which duties may from time to time conflict with the interests of our stockholders. In the course of our investing activities, we will pay management and incentive fees to GMC and will reimburse Gladstone Administration for certain expenses it incurs. As a result, investors in our common stock will invest on a “gross” basis and receive distributions on a “net” basis after expenses, resulting in, among other things, a lower rate of return than one might achieve through our investors themselves making direct investments. As a result of this arrangement, there may be times when the management team of GMC has interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict. GMC will receive a quarterly incentive fee based, in part, on our pre-incentive fee net investment income, if any, for the immediately preceding calendar quarter. This income-based portion of the incentive fee is subject to a quarterly hurdle rate before providing an income incentive fee return to GMC. Because the hurdle rate is fixed and is based in relation to current interest rates, which are currently relatively low on a historical basis, if interest rates rise, it would become easier for our investment income to exceed the hurdle rate and, as a result, more likely that GMC will receive an income-based incentive fee than if interest rates on our investments remained constant or decreased. Subject to the receipt of any requisite stockholder approval under the 1940 Act, our Board of Directors may readjust the hurdle rate by amending the investment advisory and management agreement. We have entered into a license agreement with GMC, pursuant to which GMC has agreed to grant us a non-exclusive license to use the name “Gladstone” and the Diamond G logo. Under the license agreement, we will have the right to use the “Gladstone” name and the Diamond G logo as long as GMC remains our investment adviser. We will typically invest in transactions involving acquisitions, buyouts and recapitalizations of companies, which will subject us to the risks associated with change in control transactions. Our strategy includes making debt and equity investments in companies in connection with acquisitions, buyouts and recapitalizations, which will subject us to the risks associated with change in control transactions. Change in control transactions often present a number of uncertainties. Companies undergoing change in control transactions often face challenges retaining key employees, maintaining relationships with customers and suppliers. While we hope to avoid many of these difficulties by participating in transactions where the management team is retained and by conducting thorough due diligence in advance of our decision to invest, if our portfolio companies experience one or more of these problems, we may not realize the value that we expect in connection with our investments which would likely harm our operating results and financial condition We may not realize gains from our equity investments. When we invest in mezzanine or senior secured loans, we may acquire warrants or other equity securities as well. In addition we may invest in preferred and common stock. Our goal is ultimately to dispose of such equity interests and realize gains upon our disposition of such interests. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. 18 Our investments in prospective portfolio companies may be risky, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Investing in small and mid-sized companies involves a number of significant risks, including: • these companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us collecting on any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment; • these companies typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; • these companies are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; and • these companies generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion, or maintain their competitive positions. In addition, our executive officers, directors, and GMC may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in these portfolio companies. Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results. Many of our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to make interest or principal payments on our loans during these periods. Therefore, our under-performing assets are likely to increase and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease during these periods. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and could harm our operating results. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, acceleration of the maturity of its senior and other loans and foreclosure on its assets pledged as collateral for such loans, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, if one of our portfolio companies were to be forced to seek bankruptcy protection, even though we may have structured our interest as senior debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might re-characterize our debt holdings and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to those of other creditors. An investment strategy focused primarily on privately-held companies presents certain challenges, including the lack of available information about these companies. We invest primarily in privately-held companies. Generally, little public information exists about these companies, and we will be required to rely on the ability of GMC’s investment professionals to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments. Also, privately-held companies frequently have less diverse product lines and smaller market presence than larger competitors. These factors could affect our investment returns. Our portfolio companies are likely to have debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. We invest primarily in subordinated debt, mezzanine debt and preferred equity securities issued by our portfolio companies in connection with buyouts or recapitalizations of these companies. Portfolio companies undergoing these types of transactions usually will have other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt securities in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the debt securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization, or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution with respect to our investment. After repaying its senior creditors, our portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt securities in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization, or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. In addition, we may not be in a position to control any portfolio company by investing in its debt securities. 19 Therefore, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the management of such company, as representatives of the holders of their equity securities, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as debt investors. Our incentive fee may induce GMC to make certain investments, including speculative investments. The incentive fee payable by us to GMC may create an incentive for GMC to make investments on our behalf that are more speculative than GMC would make in the absence of such compensation arrangement. The way in which the incentive fee payable to GMC is determined, which is calculated as a percentage of the return on invested capital, may encourage GMC to use leverage to increase the return on our investments. Under certain circumstances, the use of leverage carries with it the risk of our default on our debt obligations, which could result in premature sale or liquidation of our assets and otherwise adversely affect the holders of our common stock. In addition, GMC receives the incentive fee based, in part, upon net capital gains realized on our investments. Unlike the portion of the incentive fee based on income, there is no hurdle rate applicable to the portion of the incentive fee based on net capital gains. As a result, GMC may have a tendency to invest more in investments that are likely to result in capital gains as compared to income producing securities. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during economic downturns. Moreover, once an incentive fee on capital gains has been paid to GMC, it is not subject to being returned in the event we realize capital losses in the future. The incentive fee payable by us to GMC also may create an incentive for GMC to invest on our behalf in instruments, such as zero coupon bonds, that may be higher yielding but may have a deferred interest feature. Under these investments, we would accrue the interest over the life of the investment but would not receive the cash income from the investment until the end of the term. The income-based portion of our net investment that is used to calculate the income portion of our investment fee, however, includes accrued interest. For example, accrued interest, if any, on our investments in any zero coupon bonds will be included in the calculation of our incentive fee, even though we will not receive any cash interest payments in respect of payment on any such bonds until their maturity dates. Thus, a portion of this incentive fee would be based on income that we have not yet received in cash. Our investments in securities of companies with foreign operations may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in investments in companies primarily based in the U.S. Our investment strategy does not contemplate potential investments in debt or equity securities of foreign companies, however, some of our portfolio companies may have operations outside the United States. Investing in companies with a significant presence outside the U.S. may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in companies whose operations are primarily conducted in the U.S. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers, and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards, and greater price volatility. Although most of our investments will be U.S. dollar-denominated, we may make investments denominated in foreign currencies, most likely Canadian dollars, that would subject us to the risk that the value of the foreign currency will change in relation to the U.S. dollar. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation, and political developments. We may employ hedging techniques to minimize these risks, but we can offer no assurance that such strategies will be effective. Our hedging activities may not fully protect us from adverse changes in exchange rates or interest rates. If we engage in hedging transactions, we may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions. We may utilize instruments such as forward contracts, currency options and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions from changes in currency exchange rates and market interest rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against a situation of an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. 20 The success of our hedging transactions will depend on our ability to correctly predict movements in currency exchange and interest rates. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce currency exchange rate and interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates or interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. In addition, it may not be possible to hedge fully or perfectly against currency fluctuations affecting the value of securities denominated in non- U.S. currencies because the value of those securities is likely to fluctuate as a result of factors not related to currency fluctuations. At March 31, 2006, we were not engaged in any hedging activities. We will be subject to corporate level tax if we are unable to satisfy Internal Revenue Code requirements for RIC qualification. To maintain our qualification as a RIC, we must meet income source, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. The annual distribution requirement is satisfied if we distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and short-term capital gains to our stockholders on an annual basis. Because we use leverage, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and could, under certain circumstances, be restricted from making distributions necessary to qualify as a RIC. Warrants we receive with respect to debt investments will create “original issue discount,” which we must recognize as ordinary income, increasing the amounts we are required to distribute to maintain RIC status. Because such warrants will not produce distributable cash for us at the same time as we are required to make distributions in respect of the related original issue discount, we will need to use cash from other sources to satisfy such distribution requirements. The asset diversification requirements must be met at the end of each calendar quarter. If we fail to meet these tests, we may need to quickly dispose of certain investments to prevent the loss of RIC status. Since most of our investments will be illiquid, such dispositions, if even possible, may not be made at prices advantageous to us and, in fact, may result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason and become fully subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution, and the actual amount distributed. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us and our shares. For additional information regarding asset coverage ratio and RIC requirements, see “Business—Leverage” and “Business—Material U.S. Federal Tax Considerations—Regulated Investment Company Status.” There is a risk that you may not receive dividends or that our dividends may not grow over time. Our current intention is to distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and short-term capital gains to our stockholders on a quarterly basis. We expect to retain net realized long-term capital gains to supplement our equity capital and support the growth of our portfolio, although our Board of Directors may determine in certain cases to distribute these gains. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results or maintain a tax status that will allow or require any specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. The market price of our shares may fluctuate significantly. The market price and marketability of our shares may from time to time be significantly affected by numerous factors, including many over which we have no control and that may not be directly related to us. These factors include the following: • price and volume fluctuations in the stock market from time to time, which are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of shares of RICs, business development companies or other companies in our sector, which is not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; • changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs or business development companies; • loss of BDC status; • loss of RIC status; • changes in our earnings or variations in our operating results; • changes in the value of our portfolio of investments; • any shortfall in our revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; • departure of key personnel; 21 • operating performance of companies comparable to us; • short-selling pressure with respect to our shares or business development companies generally; • general economic trends and other external factors; and • loss of a major funding source. Fluctuations in the trading prices of our shares may adversely affect the liquidity of the trading market for our shares and, if we seek to raise capital through future equity financings, our ability to raise such equity capital. Shares of closed-end investment companies frequently trade at a discount from net asset value. Shares of closed-end investment companies frequently trade at a discount from net asset value. This characteristic of shares of closed-end investment companies is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share will decline. Although shares of our common stock have historically traded at a premium to net asset value, there can be no guarantee that they will continue to do so. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 