D. Risk Factors The following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate to the securities market and ownership of our common stock. If any of the circumstances or events described below actually arises or occurs, our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends in the future could be materially adversely affected. In any such case, the market price of our common shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Industry Specific Risk Factors Charter rates for product tankers and container vessels have declined significantly and may decrease in the future, which may adversely affect our earnings. The product tanker and container vessel sectors are cyclical with volatility in charter hire rates and industry profitability. The degree of charter hire rate volatility among different types of product tankers and container vessels has varied widely and after reaching historical highs in mid-2008, charter hire rates for product tankers and container vessels have declined significantly from historically high levels. If the shipping industry is depressed in the future when our charters expire, our revenues, earnings and available cash flow may be adversely affected. In addition, a decline in charter hire rates likely will cause the value of our vessels to decline. Four of our period charters (one container vessel and three product tankers) are scheduled to expire during 2009. In addition, three of our product tankers are currently in the spot market. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully charter our vessels in the future or renew our existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to operate our business profitably or meet our obligations. Our ability to re-charter our vessels on the expiration or termination of our current charters, the charter rates payable under any replacement charters and vessel values will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the product tanker and container vessel markets at that time, changes in the supply and demand for vessel capacity and changes in the supply and demand for oil and oil products and container transportation. The factors affecting the supply and demand for product tankers and container vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable. The nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. The factors that influence the demand for vessel capacity include: · demand for oil and oil products; · supply of oil and oil products; · regional availability of refining capacity; · the globalization of manufacturing; · global and regional economic and political conditions; · developments in international trade; · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances over which cargoes are transported; · environmental and other regulatory developments; · currency exchange rates; and · weather. The factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: · the number of newbuilding deliveries; 4 · the scrapping rate of older vessels; · the price of steel and vessel equipment; · changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful lives of vessels; · the number of vessels that are out of service; and · port or canal congestion. If the number of new vessels delivered exceeds the number of vessels being scrapped and lost, vessel capacity will increase. If the supply of vessel capacity increases but the demand for vessel capacity does not increase correspondingly, charter rates and vessel values could materially decline. Please see the information contained in the table of vessel information under "Item 4 – Information on the Company – Business Overview – Our Fleet." The period charter expiration dates for all our vessels are detailed in the table under "Charter Expiration," except for the three product tankers that are currently employed in the spot market. Please see the information contained in "Item 5 – Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Operating Results – Important Factors to Consider When Evaluating our Historical and Future Results of Operations." The downturns in the product tanker and container vessel charter markets may have an adverse effect on our earnings, affect compliance with our loan covenants and our ability to pay dividends if reinstated in the future. Charter rates for product tankers have declined sharply since the end of 2008. For example, the Baltic Clean Tankers Index (BCTI), a measure of international clean tanker routes and a selection of basket and individual time charter equivalents (TCEs), dropped from 839 points before the end of 2008 to 372 points as at March 31, 2009. According to industry sources, the average spot market rate for an MR tanker transporting 38,000 tonnes of gasoline to the US reached a low of W62.5, or $604 per day, on April 2009, compared to a high of $20,000 reached during 2008. The decline in charter rates in the product tanker market has resulted in a commensurate decline in our tanker vessel values affecting our cash flows, liquidity and compliance with the covenants contained in our loan agreements. Container vessel charter rates have also declined sharply since the end of 2008. Charter rates and vessel values in the container sector continued to be placed under downward pressure from the decline in freight rates resulting from the decrease in the transportation of cargoes by container vessels. The Howe Robinson Containership Index (HRCI), a measure of international container vessel charter rates, dropped from 498 points before the end of 2008 to 379 points as at March 31, 2009. The container market remains under the pressures of a slowdown in trade activities and reduced demand for cargo traffic. While the charter rates for bulk carriers declined substantially in the second half of 2008, the fall has stabilized and recovered moderately in 2009. We are currently in breach of certain of our financial covenants contained in our fully-revolving credit facility. Please see "Item 5. Operating Financial Review and Prospects — B. Liquidity and Capital Resources — Indebtedness." In September 2008, our board of directors determined, after careful consideration of various factors, to suspend the payment of cash dividends in order to preserve capital and to allow management to focus on improving the Company's long-term strength and operational results. If the current low charter rates in the product tanker and container markets continue through any significant period in 2009 and 2010, when time charters for our seven vessels that are employed on time charter expire and we are consequently exposed to then-prevailing charter rates, our earnings may be adversely affected. If these trends continue, in order to remain viable, we may have to extend the period in which we suspend dividend payments and/or sell vessels in our fleet. In addition, the Company's impairment analysis as of December 31, 2008 resulted in an impairment loss of $(30,075) and is reflected in the accompanying 2008 Consolidated Statements of Operations. However, the current assumptions used and the estimates made are highly subjective, and could be negatively impacted by further significant deterioration in charter rates or vessel utilization over the remaining life of the vessels which could require the Company to record a material impairment charge in future periods. No impairment loss was recorded in the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007. A further economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could exacerbate the effect of recent slowdowns in the economies of the United States and the European Union and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We anticipate that a significant number of the port calls made by our vessels will continue to involve the loading or discharging of commodities in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, negative changes in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, particularly in China, may exacerbate the effect of recent slowdowns in the economies of the United States and the European Union and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. In recent years, China has been one of the world's fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, which has had a significant impact on shipping demand. This rate of growth declined significantly in the second half of 2008 and it is likely that China and other countries in the Asia Pacific region will continue to experience slowed or even negative economic growth in the near future. Moreover, the current economic slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union and other Asian countries may further adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. China has recently announced a $586.0 billion stimulus package aimed in part at increasing investment and consumer spending and maintaining export growth in response to the recent slowdown in its economic growth. Our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, will likely be materially and adversely affected by a further economic downturn in any of these countries. 5 Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the government to regulate its economy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) in such respects as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation and balance of payments position. Prior to 1978, the Chinese economy was a planned economy. Since 1978, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy. Annual and five year State Plans are adopted by the Chinese government in connection with the development of the economy. Although state-owned enterprises still account for a substantial portion of the Chinese industrial output, in general, the Chinese government is reducing the level of direct control that it exercises over the economy through State Plans and other measures. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a "market economy" and enterprise reform. Limited price reforms were undertaken, with the result that prices for certain commodities are principally determined by market forces. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition based upon the outcome of such experiments. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue a policy of economic reform, the level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws, regulations or export and import restrictions, all of which could, adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The value of our vessels may fluctuate, which may adversely affect our liquidity. Vessel values can fluctuate substantially over time due to a number of different factors, including: · general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; · competition from other shipping companies; · the types and sizes of available vessels; · the availability of other modes of transportation; · increases in the supply of vessel capacity; · the cost of newbuildings; · prevailing charter rates; and · the cost of retrofitting or modifying second hand vessels as a result of charterer requirements, technological advances in vessel design or equipment, changes in applicable environmental or other regulations or standards, or otherwise. In addition, as vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. Due to the cyclical nature of the product tanker and container vessel markets, if for any reason we sell vessels at a time when prices have fallen, we could incur a loss and our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends in the future could be adversely affected. An over-supply of tanker capacity may lead to reductions in charter hire rates and profitability. The market supply of tankers is affected by a number of factors such as demand for energy resources, oil, and petroleum products, waiting days in ports, as well as strong overall economic growth in parts of the world economy including Asia. Furthermore, the extension of refinery capacity in India and the Middle East up to 2011 is expected to exceed the immediate consumption in these areas, and an increase in exports of refined oil products is expected as a result. Factors that tend to decrease tanker supply include the conversion of tankers to non-tanker purposes and the phasing out of single-hull tankers due to legislation and environmental concerns. We believe that the current order book represents a significant percentage of the existing fleet. An over-supply of tanker capacity may result in a reduction of charter hire rates. If a reduction in charter rates occurs, upon the expiration or termination of our vessels' current charters, we may only be able to recharter our vessels at reduced or unprofitable rates or we may not be able to charter these vessels at all, which could lead to a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 6 An over-supply of container vessel capacity may lead to further reductions in charter hire rates and profitability. The market supply of container vessels has been increasing, and the carrying capacity (measured in TEUs) on order is at an historic high. This has led to an over-supply of container vessel capacity, resulting in a reduction of charter hire rates and a decrease in the value of our container vessels. The reduction in rates may, under certain circumstances, affect the ability of our customers who charter our container vessels to make charter hire payments to us. This and other factors affecting the supply and demand for container vessels and the supply and demand for products shipped in containers are outside our control and the nature, timing and degree of changes in the industry may affect the ability of our charterers to make charter hire payments to us. Disruptions in world financial markets and the resulting governmental action in the United States and in other parts of the world could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could cause the market price of our common stock to further decline. The United States and other parts of the world are exhibiting deteriorating economic trends and have been in a recession. For example, the credit markets in the United States have experienced significant contraction, deleveraging and reduced liquidity, and the United States federal government and state governments have implemented and are considering a broad variety of governmental action and/or new regulation of the financial markets. Securities and futures markets and the credit markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The Commission, other regulators, self-regulatory organizations and exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies, and may effect changes in law or interpretations of existing laws. Recently, a number of financial institutions have experienced serious financial difficulties and, in some cases, have entered bankruptcy proceedings or are in regulatory enforcement actions. The uncertainty surrounding the future of the credit markets in the United States and the rest of the world has resulted in reduced access to credit worldwide. As of June 25, 2009, we had total outstanding indebtedness of $223.7 million. We face risks attendant to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates, and instability in the banking and securities markets around the world, among other factors. Major market disruptions and the current adverse changes in market conditions and regulatory climate in the United States and worldwide may adversely affect our business or impair our ability to borrow amounts under our fully revolving credit facility or any future financial arrangements. We cannot predict how long the current market conditions will last. However, these recent and developing economic and governmental factors, together with the concurrent decline in charter rates and vessel values, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, have caused the trading price of our common shares on the Nasdaq Global Market to decline and could cause the price of our common shares to continue to decline. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Throughout 2008 the frequency of piracy incidents has increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia, with drybulk vessels and tankers particularly vulnerable to such attacks. For example, in April 2009, the Maersk Alabama, a cargo vessel not affiliated with us, was captured by pirates off the coast of Somalia and was released following military action by the U.S. Navy. In November 2008, the Sirius Star, a tanker vessel not affiliated with us, was also captured by pirates in the Indian Ocean while carrying crude oil estimated to be worth $100 million, and was released in January 2009 upon a ransom payment of $3 million. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized as "war risk" zones by insurers, as the Gulf of Aden temporarily was in May 2008, or Joint War Committee (JWC) "war and strikes" listed areas, premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including due to employing onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, any detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability, of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to reinstate the payment of dividends. Fuel, or bunker prices, may adversely affect profits. While we generally do not bear the cost of fuel, or bunkers, under our time charters, fuel is a significant factor in negotiating charter rates. As a result, an increase in the price of fuel beyond our expectations may adversely affect our profitability at the time of charter negotiation or when our vessels trade in the spot market. Fuel is also a significant, if not the largest, expense in our shipping operations when vessels are under voyage charter. Increases in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Further, fuel may become much more expensive in the future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. 7 We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the form of international conventions and treaties, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of our vessels. These requirements include, but are not limited to, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships of 1975, the International Maritime Organization, or IMO, International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution of 1973, the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966, the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, the U.S. Clean Air Act, the U.S. Clean Water Act and the U.S. Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards, where applicable, may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes and may affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels. We may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including, but not limited to, costs relating to air emissions, the management of ballast waters, maintenance and inspection, elimination of tin-based paint, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of our ability to address pollution incidents. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Under OPA, for example, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. An oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties, criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages under other federal, state and local laws, as well as third-party damages. We are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. Although we have arranged insurance to cover certain environmental risks, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be sufficient to cover all such risks or that any claims will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We are subject to international safety regulations and the failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to increased liability, may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the IMO International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or ISM Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive "Safety Management System" that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. As of the date of this report, each of our vessels is ISM code-certified. Our vessels may suffer damage due to the inherent operational risks of the seaborne transportation industry and we may experience unexpected drydocking costs, which may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our vessels and their cargoes will be at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather, business interruptions caused by mechanical failures, grounding, fire, explosions and collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. These hazards may result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, delay or rerouting. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and may be substantial. We may have to pay drydocking costs that our insurance does not cover in full. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. In addition, space at drydocking facilities is sometimes limited and not all drydocking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable drydocking facility or our vessels may be forced to travel to a drydocking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels' positions. The loss of earnings while these vessels are forced to wait for space or to steam to more distant drydocking facilities would decrease our earnings. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover our losses that may result from our operations due to the inherent operational risks of the seaborne transportation industry. We carry insurance to protect us against most of the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of our business, including marine hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes pollution risks, crew insurance and war risk insurance. However, we may not be adequately insured to cover losses from our operational risks, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, our insurers may refuse to pay particular claims and our insurance may be voidable by the insurers if we take, or fail to take, certain action, such as failing to maintain certification of our vessels with applicable maritime regulatory organizations. Any significant uninsured or under-insured loss or liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates in the future during adverse insurance market conditions. 8 As a result of the September 11, 2001 attacks, the U.S. response to the attacks and related concern regarding terrorism, insurers have increased premiums and reduced or restricted coverage for losses caused by terrorist acts generally. Accordingly, premiums payable for terrorist coverage have increased substantially and the level of terrorist coverage has been significantly reduced. In addition, while we carry loss of hire insurance to cover 100% of our fleet, we may not be able to maintain this level of coverage. Accordingly, any loss of a vessel or extended vessel off-hire, due to an accident or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders in the future. Because we obtain some of our insurance through protection and indemnity associations, we may also be subject to calls in amounts based not only on our own claim records, but also the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations. We may be subject to calls in amounts based not only on our claim records but also the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive insurance coverage for tort liability, including pollution-related liability. Our payment of these calls could result in significant expense to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the "sister ship" theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel that is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert "sister ship" liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. Increased inspection procedures, tighter import and export controls and new security regulations could increase costs and cause disruption of our container shipping business. International container shipping is subject to additional security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin, destination and trans-shipment points. These security procedures can result in cargo seizure, delays in the loading, offloading, trans-shipment, or delivery of containers and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against exporters or importers and, in some cases, carriers. Since the events of September 11 2001, U.S. authorities have significantly increased the levels of inspection for all imported containers. Government investment in non-intrusive container scanning technology has grown, and there is interest in electronic monitoring technology, including so-called "e-seals" and "smart" containers that would enable remote, centralized monitoring of containers during shipment to identify tampering with or opening of the containers, along with potentially measuring other characteristics such as temperature, air pressure, motion, chemicals, biological agents and radiation. It is unclear what changes, if any, to the existing security procedures will ultimately be proposed or implemented, or how any such changes will affect the container shipping industry. These changes have the potential to impose additional financial and legal obligations on carriers and, in certain cases, to render the shipment of certain types of goods by container uneconomical or impractical. These additional costs could reduce the volume of goods shipped in containers, resulting in a decreased demand for container vessels. In addition, it is unclear what financial costs any new security procedures might create for container vessel owners and operators. Any additional costs or a decrease in container volumes could have an adverse impact on our customers that charter container vessels from us and, under certain circumstances, may affect their ability to make charter hire payments to us under the terms of our charters. Labor interruptions could disrupt our business. Our vessels are manned by masters, officers and crews that are employed by third parties. If not resolved in a timely and cost-effective manner, industrial action or other labor unrest could prevent or hinder our operations from being carried out as we expect and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends in the future. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which would interrupt our business. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting or attaching a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our business or require us to pay large sums of money to have the arrest lifted, which would have a negative effect on our cash flows. 9 Maritime claimants could attach our assets under United States Supplemental Admiralty Rule B ("Rule B"), which could interrupt our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. It is possible that we could be sued and the plaintiff could use Rule B to attach our assets located in the United States. Rule B provides that where a defendant is not "found" for jurisdictional purposes within the United States federal district in which a Rule B action is commenced, a plaintiff with a valid maritime claim can, ex parte, attach or garnish the defendant's tangible or intangible property located in such federal district. Certain United States' courts have broadly defined what constitutes a maritime claim and this exposes defendants to a greater risk of attachment. Under Rule B, the property sought to be attached must be in the possession of the garnishee (such as a bank) and recently certain United States' courts have held that this can include Electronic Funds Transfers, or EFTs, passing through an intermediary money center bank (a substantial number of which are in the Southern District of New York), on their way to or from overseas financial institutions. We currently maintain an office in Greenwich, Connecticut. Although this may provide a defense to a Rule B attachment, it is still possible that our assets could be attached by a plaintiff pursuant to Rule B while passing through the United States. In particular, we frequently transact business in United States Dollars and attachments of EFTs passing through New York may unexpectedly freeze funds transfers to or from us. Attachments of our assets under Rule B could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. According to rulings by certain United States' courts, it may be possible to prevent Rule B attachments in the Southern District of New York by registering with the Secretary of State of New York as a foreign corporation licensed to do business in the State of New York and appointing an agent for service of process in the Southern District. However, after consideration, we have decided not to pursue such course of action. We may decide in the future to both register with the New York Secretary of State as a foreign corporation licensed to do business in New York and appoint an agent for service of process in the Southern District of New York and this may add certain costs to our operations. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency without adequate compensation. A government could requisition or seize our vessels. Under requisition for title, a government takes control of a vessel and becomes its owner. Under requisition for hire, a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes its charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate our vessels worldwide and, as a result, our vessels are exposed to international risks that could reduce revenue or increase expenses. The international shipping industry is an inherently risky business involving global operations. Our vessels are at risk of damage or loss because of events such as mechanical failure, collision, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, cargo loss and bad weather. In addition, changing economic, regulatory and political conditions in some countries, including political and military conflicts, have from time to time resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways, piracy, terrorism, labor strikes and boycotts. These sorts of events could interfere with shipping routes and result in market disruptions that may reduce our revenue or increase our expenses. Terrorist attacks and international hostilities can affect the seaborne transportation industry, which could adversely affect our business. We conduct most of our operations outside of the United States, and our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected by changing economic, political and government conditions in the countries and regions where our vessels are employed or registered. Moreover, we operate in a sector of the economy that is likely to be adversely impacted by the effects of political instability, terrorist or other attacks, war or international hostilities. Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, in London on July 7, 2005 and in Mumbai on November 26, 2008 and the continuing response of the United States and others to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, continue to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The continuing presence of United States and other armed forces in Iraq and Afghanistan may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenues and costs. Terrorist attacks on vessels, such as the October 2002 attack on the M.V. Limburg, a very large crude carrier not related to us, may in the future also negatively affect our operations and financial condition and directly impact our vessels or our customers. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility and turmoil in the financial markets in the United States and globally. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and costs. 10 Company Specific Risk Factors We are in breach of certain financial covenants contained in our fully-revolving credit facility, and if we are not successful in obtaining a waiver and amendment to our credit facility, our lenders may declare an event of default and accelerate our outstanding indebtedness, which would impair our ability to continue to conduct our business. Our credit agreement requires us to adhere to certain financial covenants as of the end of each fiscal quarter, including the following: · the aggregate fair market value of our vessels ("Security Value") must be no less than 140% of the aggregate outstanding loans under the fully revolving credit facility ("Security Requirement"); · our shareholders' equity as a percentage of our total assets, adjusting the book value of our fleet to its market value, must be no less than 35%; · minimum liquidity consisting of free cash and cash equivalents plus any undrawn element of the $5.0 million portion of the credit facility available for general corporate purposes, which must be no less than the aggregate of 5% of interest bearing debt and 5% of the $5.0 million portion of the credit facility available for general corporate purposes; · our current liabilities, excluding deferred revenue, derivative financial instruments and voluntary and mandatory prepayments, may not exceed our current assets, excluding derivative financial instruments and the value of any ship committed for sale; and · the ratio of EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) to interest expense must be no less than 3.00 to 1.00 on a trailing four quarter basis. In addition, pursuant to the Fifth Supplemental Agreement to the facility entered into in June 2008, we were required to reduce the outstanding borrowings under the facility from $284.8 million to $200.0 million, by disposal of vessels, by August 31, 2008. We subsequently sold three of our vessels for net proceeds of $59.6 million. In addition, we expect to receive net proceeds of $2.3 million from the sale of the Ocean Hope, which we expect to deliver to its new owners between June 29 and July 15, 2009. We are currently not in compliance with the requirements of the Fifth Supplemental Agreement. Specifically, the amended interest coverage financial covenant ratio was not met during the year ended December 31, 2008 and we failed to reduce the outstanding borrowings to $200 million. In addition, as of December 31, 2008, we were in breach of our equity ratio financial covenant as defined in the credit agreement. The lenders gave notices to us on October 27, 2008, December 24, 2008, February 6, 2009 and April 3, 2009 stating that certain events of default have occurred and continue to occur. The lenders advise that it is not their immediate intention to take enforcement action but they reserve their rights to do so. As of December 31, 2008, and as of the date of this report, we continue to be in breach of the following covenants: · An equity ratio of not less than 35%; · An interest coverage ratio (as defined in the facility agreement) of not less than 3.00 to 1.00; · The reduction of the outstanding borrowings to $200 million in accordance with the Fifth Supplemental Agreement; and · A working capital, including the amount of $223.7 million of debt reflected as current, of not less than zero. Our credit agreement also requires the Group's two principal beneficial equity holders to maintain a beneficial ownership of no less than 10% each in the issued stock of the Company. Moreover, the credit agreement also prevents us from declaring dividends if any event of default, as defined in the credit agreement, occurs or would result from such declaration. In September 2008, our board of directors determined to suspend the payment of cash dividends in order to preserve capital and to allow management to focus on improving the Company's long-term strength and operating results. Each of the following constitutes an event of default under the credit agreement: · the failure to pay principal, interest, fees, expenses or other amounts when due; · breach of certain financial covenants, including those which require Magnus Carriers, a related party, to maintain a minimum cash balance; · the failure of any representation or warranty to be materially correct; · the occurrence of a material adverse change (as defined in the credit agreement); 11 · the failure of the security documents or guarantees to be effective; · judgments against us or any of our subsidiaries in excess of certain amounts; · bankruptcy or insolvency events; and · the failure of our principal beneficial equity holders to maintain their investment in us. Furthermore, due to the current financial turmoil that has significantly affected the industry and our vessels' values, our lenders notified us on April 9, 2009 that the Security Value of our vessels was less than the Security Requirement. We are currently in discussions with our lenders about the applicability of the valuations that formed the basis for the lenders notification. A violation of our financial covenants constitutes an event of default under our credit facility, which would, unless waived by our lenders, provide our lenders with the right to require us to refrain from declaring and paying dividends and borrowing additional funds under the credit facility, post additional collateral, enhance our equity and liquidity, increase our interest payments, pay down our indebtedness to a level where we are in compliance with our loan covenants, sell vessels in our fleet, reclassify our indebtedness as current liabilities and accelerate our indebtedness and foreclose their liens on our vessels, which would impair our ability to continue to conduct our business. A total of $223.7 million of indebtedness has been reclassified as current liabilities in our audited consolidated balance sheet for the year ended December 31, 2008, included in this report. If current market conditions continue, we do not expect that we will be able to meet all financial covenants of our credit facility in the foreseeable future in the absence of further agreement with our lenders. We are currently in discussions with our lenders to restructure our facility including amendments to certain financial covenants, although we cannot assure you that we will be successful reaching an agreement with our lenders. In addition, in connection with any waiver and/or amendment to our credit facility, our lenders may impose additional operating and financial restrictions on us and/or modify the terms of our credit facility. These restrictions may limit our ability to, among other things, pay dividends in the future, make capital expenditures and/or incur additional indebtedness, including through the issuance of guarantees. In addition, our lenders may require the payment of additional fees, require prepayment of a portion of our indebtedness to them, accelerate the amortization schedule for our indebtedness and increase the interest rates they charge us on our outstanding indebtedness. If our indebtedness is accelerated, it would be very difficult in the current financing environment for us to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing and we could lose our vessels if our lenders foreclose their liens. On June 24, 2009, we signed a non-binding letter of intent (LOI) with Grandunion, a company controlled by Michael Zolotas and Nicholas Fistes, that contemplates, among other things, the acquisition of three Capesize drybulk carriers with an approximate net asset value of $36.0 million in exchange for 15,977,778 newly issued shares of Aries Maritime and a change of control of our board of directors. Please see “Item 4.A. History and Development of the Company – Recent Developments” for further information concerning the LOI. The market value of our vessels have declined and may further decrease, which could lead to a default under our fully revolving credit facility, the loss of our vessels and/or we may incur a loss if we sell vessels following a decline in their market value. The fair market values of our vessels have generally experienced high volatility and have recently declined significantly. Our fully revolving credit facility requires us to meet certain financial covenants. For instance, if the market value of our fleet declines below 140% of the aggregate outstanding principal balance of our borrowings under our fully revolving credit facility, we will not be in compliance with certain provisions of our credit facility and our lenders may declare an event of default unless we are able to pledge additional collateral or repay our outstanding borrowings. As of May 11, 2009, our lenders have notified us that we are currently in breach of the minimum security requirement contained in our fully revolving credit facility as a result of the decline in the fair market value of our vessels based on valuations which we believe are not valid based on the lack of liquidity in the vessel sale and purchase market as noted in the various disclaimers contained in the valuations obtained by our lenders. We are currently in discussions with our lenders regarding the alleged breach; however there can be no assurance regarding the outcome of our discussions. Our lenders have notified us that we are in breach of various other covenants contained in our loan agreement and we may be unable to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing. Please read "Item 5 – Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Indebtedness" for information concerning the breach of loan covenants contained in our fully revolving credit facility. In addition, if we sell one or more of our vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our consolidated financial statements, the sale may be less than the vessel's carrying value on our consolidated financial statements, resulting in a loss and a reduction in earnings. Furthermore, if vessel values fall significantly we may have to record an impairment adjustment in our consolidated financial statements which could adversely affect our financial results. We pay interest under our fully revolving credit facility at a rate of LIBOR plus a margin of 1.75%. If the market value of our vessels further declines, we may pay a higher margin under the terms of our fully revolving credit facility. You should read "Item 5 – Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Indebtedness" for additional information concerning our fully revolving credit facility. 12 The fair market value of our vessels, which have experienced high volatility and have recently declined significantly, may fall further from their currently depressed levels, and we may have to record a further impairment adjustment to our financial statements, which would adversely affect financial results. If the fair market value of our vessels, deteriorates significantly from their currently depressed levels, we may have to record a further impairment adjustment to our financial statements, which would adversely affect our financial results and further hinder our ability to raise capital. In addition, as discussed below, our independent registered public accounting firm has issued its opinion with an explanatory paragraph in connection with our audited financial statements included in this report that expresses substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our incurrence of a net loss during the years ended and December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, our net working capital deficit and our inability to adhere to certain financial covenants under our fully revolving credit facility raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. During the years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, we incurred losses of $39.8 million and $8.7 million, respectively. As at December 31, 2008, we reported a working capital deficit of $231.7 million, which includes $223.7 million of debt reflected as current, and have not met certain of our financial covenants under our fully revolving credit facility. As a result, it is likely that we may continue to not meet the covenants of our credit facility for the foreseeable future and in the absence of our lenders' consent, our outstanding indebtedness would be immediately due. We have plans in place to improve our performance and financial strength. These plans mainly relate to the reduction of vessel operating expenses and potential sales of one or more vessels to strengthen our financial position in addition to plans for enhancing our equity capital. Therefore, our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on our ability to achieve the sale of the vessels and to continue to improve our performance, which includes achieving profitable operations in the future, and the continued support of our lenders. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued their opinion with an explanatory paragraph in connection with our consolidated financial statements included in this report that expresses substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result from the outcome of our inability to continue as a going concern. However, there is a material uncertainty related to events or conditions which raises substantial doubt on our ability to continue as a going concern and, therefore, we may be unable to realize our assets and discharge our liabilities in the normal course of business. Although we believe that the actions presently being taken to further implement our business plan, to sell one or more vessels and generate revenues, will provide the opportunity for us to continue as a going concern, there can be no assurances to that effect. On June 24, 2009, we signed a non-binding letter of intent (LOI) with Grandunion, a company controlled by Michael Zolotas and Nicholas Fistes, that contemplates, among other things, the acquisition of three Capesize drybulk carriers with an approximate net asset value of $36.0 million in exchange for 15,977,778 newly issued shares of Aries Maritime and a change of control of our board of directors. Please see “Item 4.A. History and Development of the Company – Recent Developments” for further information concerning the LOI. Servicing our debt will substantially limit our funds available for other purposes, such as vessel acquisitions and the payment of dividends, if any, in the future. We are currently in default of certain financial covenants contained in our credit facility as explained above and in 'Item 5: Operating and Financial Review and Prospects', including the requirement to reduce the amount outstanding to $200 million by the sale of vessels by August 31, 2008, and we are under negotiation with our lenders about obtaining relevant debt waivers and restructuring our existing credit facility. We may be unable to restructure or refinance our existing credit facility on terms that are favorable to us or at all. A large part of our cash from operations may be required to pay principal and interest on our debt. Our debt service payments will reduce our funds available for other purposes, including those that may be in the best interests of our shareholders. We cannot assure you that our future cash flows will be adequate to fund future vessel acquisitions or to pay dividends. For fiscal year 2008, we were dependent upon three significant charterers for the majority of our revenues and we will need to find new employment for these vessels in the currently depressed charter market, which may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We have historically derived a significant part of our revenue from a small number of charterers. During 2008, approximately 55% of our revenue was derived from three charterers, Stena Group, Deiulemar Compagnia di Navigazione S.p.A and CMA CGM S.A. One of our charter agreements with Deiulemar Compagnia di Navigazione S.p.A. expired in June 2009 and the other is set to expire later in 2009 and we will need to seek new employment for these two vessels in the currently depressed charter market. The loss of charterers upon whom we have historically been dependent may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Further, after the sales of three vessels in April and June 2008, we now operate a fleet of 12 vessels. Assuming that we sell one or more additional vessels in order to reduce our outstanding balance under our credit facility, we will operate a smaller fleet. As the size of our fleet decreases, we will become increasingly dependent upon a limited number of charterers for our revenues. Our charterers may terminate or default on their charters, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Our charters may terminate earlier than the dates indicated in the section "Our Fleet" in "Item 4 – Information on the Company." The terms of our charters vary as to which events or occurrences will cause a charter to terminate or give the charterer the option to terminate the charter, but these generally include a total or constructive total loss of the related vessel, the requisition for hire of the related vessel or the failure of the related vessel to meet specified performance criteria. In addition, the ability of each of our charterers to perform its obligations under a charter will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control. These factors may include general economic conditions, the condition of a specific shipping market sector, the charter rates received for specific types of vessels and various operating expenses. The costs and delays associated with the default by a charterer of a vessel may be considerable and may adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 13 We cannot predict whether our charterers will, upon the expiration of their charters, recharter our vessels on favorable terms or at all. If our charterers decide not to recharter our vessels, we may not be able to recharter them on terms similar to the terms of our current charters. In the future, we may also employ our vessels on the spot charter market, which is subject to greater rate fluctuation than the time charter market. The time charters for six of our vessels currently provide for charter rates that are above current market rates. If we receive lower charter rates under replacement charters or are unable to recharter all of our vessels, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, in depressed market conditions, our charterers may no longer need a vessel that is currently under charter or may be able to obtain a comparable vessel at lower rates. As a result, charterers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing charter parties or avoid their obligations under those contracts. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our ability to obtain additional debt financing may depend on the performance of our then existing charters and the creditworthiness of our charterers. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional capital resources that we will require to purchase additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining that capital. Our inability to obtain additional financing or our ability to obtain additional financing at higher than anticipated costs may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may negatively impact the effectiveness of our management and our results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team. We have entered into employment contracts with our Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey Owen Parry and our Chief Financial Officer, Ioannis Makris. Our success will depend upon our ability to retain key members of our management team and to hire new members as may be necessary. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining replacement personnel could have a similar effect. We do not maintain "key man" life insurance on any of our officers. Our board of directors has determined to suspend the payment of cash dividends in order to preserve capital and to allow management to focus on improving our operating results, and until conditions improve in the international shipping industry and credit markets, it is unlikely that we will reinstate the payment of dividends. On September 12, 2008, our board of directors determined to suspend payment of our quarterly dividend, effective immediately. The decision followed our new management's strategic review of our business and reflected our focus on improving our long-term strength and operational results. We will make dividend payments to our shareholders only if our board of directors, acting in its sole discretion, determines that such payments would be in our best interest and in compliance with relevant legal and contractual requirements. The principal business factors that our board of directors expects to consider when determining the timing and amount of dividend payments will be our earnings, financial condition and cash requirements at the time. Currently, the principal contractual and legal restrictions on our ability to make dividend payments are those contained in our fully revolving credit facility agreement and those created by Bermuda law. Our credit agreement prohibits us from paying a dividend if an event of default under the credit agreement is continuing or would result from the payment of the dividend. Our credit agreement further requires us to maintain financial ratios and minimum liquidity and working capital amounts. Our obligations pursuant to these and other terms of our fully revolving credit facility could prevent us from making dividend payments under certain circumstances. In March 2008, pursuant to the condition imposed by our lenders in connection with the relaxation of the interest coverage ratio under our credit facility, our board of directors suspended the payment of quarterly dividends commencing with the dividend in respect of the fourth quarter of 2007. The Company resumed payment of dividends with a dividend of $0.10 per share in respect of the first quarter of 2008. In September 2008, our board of directors suspended the payment of quarterly dividends commencing with the dividend in respect of the second quarter of 2008. Under Bermuda law, we may not declare or pay dividends if there are reasonable grounds for believing that (1) we are, or would after the payment be, unable to pay our liabilities as they become due or (2) the realizable value of our assets would thereby be less than the sum of our liabilities, our issued share capital (the total par value of all outstanding shares) and share premium accounts (the aggregate amount paid for the subscription for our shares in excess of the aggregate par value of such shares). Consequently, events beyond our control, such as a reduction in the realizable value of our assets, could cause us to be unable to make dividend payments. 14 We may incur other expenses or liabilities that would reduce or eliminate the cash available for distribution as dividends in the future. We may also enter into new agreements or new legal provisions may be adopted that will restrict our ability to pay dividends in the future. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to reinstate the payment of dividends. We are dependent in part upon third party managers for the management of our vessels. Currently, International Tanker Management Limited, or ITM, based in Dubai, performs technical management of five of our vessels, Ernst Jacob Ship Management GmbH performs technical management of the Chinook and AMT Management Ltd., or AMT Management, our wholly-owned subsidiary, performs technical management for our three container vessels and the Nordanvind. Currently, AMT Management performs the commercial management for all of our vessels. The Stena Compass and the Stena Compassion are employed under a bareboat charter. In addition, we are generally required to obtain approval from our lenders to change our ship managers. The loss of services of one or more of our managers or the failure of one or more of our managers to perform their obligations under the respective management agreements could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Although we may have rights against ITM and/or Ernst Jacob if they default on their obligations to us, our shareholders will not directly share that recourse. The ability of our ship managers to continue providing services for our benefit will depend in part on their own financial strength. Circumstances beyond our control could impair the financial strength of our ship managers. Because our third party ship managers are privately held companies, it is unlikely that information about their financial strength would become public prior to any default by such ship manager under the management agreements. As a result, an investor in our shares might have little advance warning of problems affecting our ship managers, even though those problems could have a material adverse effect on us. We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial and other obligations and to make dividend payments, if any, in the future. We are a holding company, and we have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries own all our vessels, and payments under the charters with our charterers are made to our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to satisfy our financial and other obligations and to pay dividends, if any, in the future depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, we will not be able to pay dividends unless we obtain funds from other sources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the necessary funds from other sources. If we are unable to operate our vessels efficiently, we may be unsuccessful in competing in the highly competitive international tanker market. The operation of tanker vessels and transportation of crude and petroleum products is extremely competitive. Competition arises primarily from other tanker owners, including major oil companies as well as independent tanker companies, some of whom have substantially greater resources. Competition for the transportation of oil and oil products can be intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the tanker and its operators to the charterers. We will have to compete with other tanker owners, including major oil companies as well as independent tanker companies. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter the product tanker and container vessel shipping markets and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions and may be able to offer lower charter rates and higher quality vessels than we are able to offer. Our market share may decrease in the future. We may not be able to compete profitably as we expand our business into new geographic regions or provide new services. New markets may require different skills, knowledge or strategies than we use in our current markets, and the competitors in those new markets may have greater financial strength and capital resources than we do. We may not be able to grow or effectively manage our growth. A principal focus of our strategy is to grow by expanding our product tanker fleet as opportunities are identified. Our future growth will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to restructure our credit facility and other factors, some of which we can control and some of which we cannot. These factors include our ability to: · identify vessels for acquisition; · consummate acquisitions; · integrate acquired vessels successfully with our existing operations; 15 · identify businesses engaged in managing, operating or owning vessels for acquisitions or joint ventures; · hire, train and retain qualified personnel and crew to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; · identify additional new markets; · improve our operating, financial and accounting systems and controls; and · obtain required financing for our existing and new operations. A deficiency in any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated growth in cash flows or realize other anticipated benefits. In addition, competition from other buyers could reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay a higher price than we might otherwise pay. The process of integrating acquired vessels into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties, may absorb significant management attention and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development and expansion of our existing operations. Future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional indebtedness and liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Further, if we issue additional common shares, your interest in our Company will be diluted. Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain our vessels may increase due to changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards. Changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards, as well as compliance with standards imposed by maritime self-regulatory organizations and customer requirements or competition, may require us to make additional expenditures. In order to satisfy these requirements, we may, from time to time, be required to take our vessels out of service for extended periods of time, with corresponding losses of revenues. In the future, market conditions may not justify these expenditures or enable us to operate some or all of our vessels profitably during the remainder of their economic lives. If we are unable to fund our capital expenditures, we may not be able to continue to operate some of our vessels, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. In order to fund our capital expenditures, we may be required to incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or equity securities. Our ability to access the capital markets through future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such offering as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Currently, under our credit facility, we are restricted in incurring additional borrowings and in making capital expenditures for new vessel acquisitions. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures would limit our ability to continue to operate some of our vessels and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Unless we set aside reserves or are able to borrow funds for vessel replacement, at the end of a vessel's useful life our revenue will decline, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Unless we maintain reserves or are able to borrow or raise funds for vessel replacement we will be unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their remaining useful lives, which we estimate to be 25 years. Our cash flows and income are dependent on the revenues earned by the chartering of our vessels to customers. If we are unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives, our business, results of operations and financial condition, if any, in the future will be materially and adversely affected. Any reserves set aside for vessel replacement may not be available for dividends, if any, in the future. Risks associated with operating ocean-going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which could adversely affect our revenues and stock price. The operation of ocean-going vessels carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: · marine disaster; · environmental accidents; · cargo and property losses or damage; · business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions; and 16 · piracy. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues. The involvement of our vessels in an environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. The operation of tankers involves certain unique operational risks. The operation of tankers has unique operational risks associated with the transportation of oil. An oil spill may cause significant environmental damage, and a catastrophic spill could exceed the insurance coverage available. Compared to other types of vessels, tankers are exposed to a higher risk of damage and loss by fire, whether ignited by a terrorist attack, collision, or other cause, due to the high flammability and high volume of the oil transported in tankers. If we are unable to adequately maintain or safeguard our vessels we may be unable to prevent these events. Any of these circumstances or events could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. Exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations will result in fluctuations in our cash flows and operating results. We generate all our revenues in U.S. dollars, but a portion of our vessel operating expenses are in currencies other than U.S. dollars and we incur general and administrative expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we incurred 12% of our operating expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. This difference could lead to fluctuations in our vessel operating expenses, which would affect our financial results. Expenses incurred in foreign currencies increase when the value of the U.S. dollar falls, which would reduce our profitability. For example, in the year ended December 31, 2008, the value of the U.S. dollar reached highs of $1.25 and lows of $1.59 compared to the Euro, and as a result, a 1% adverse movement in U.S. dollar exchange rates would have increased our vessel operating expenses. Our incorporation under the laws of Bermuda may limit the ability of our shareholders to protect their interests. We are a Bermuda company. Our memorandum of association and bye-laws and the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, or the BCA, as amended, govern our corporate affairs. Investors may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. Under Bermuda law, a director generally owes a fiduciary duty only to the company, not to the company's shareholders. Our shareholders may not have a direct cause of action against our directors. In addition, Bermuda law does not provide a mechanism for our shareholders to bring a class action lawsuit under Bermuda law. Further, our bye-laws provide for the indemnification of our directors or officers against any liability arising out of any act or omission, except for an act or omission constituting fraud or dishonesty. There is a statutory remedy under Section 111 of the Companies Act, which provides that a shareholder may seek redress in the courts as long as such shareholder can establish that our affairs are being conducted, or have been conducted, in a manner oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some part of the shareholders, including such shareholder. However, the principles governing Section 111 have not been well developed. If the recent volatility in LIBOR continues, it could affect our profitability, earnings and cash flow. LIBOR has recently been volatile, with the spread between LIBOR and the prime lending rate widening significantly at times. These conditions are the result of the recent disruptions in the international credit markets. Because the interest rates borne by our outstanding indebtedness fluctuate with changes in LIBOR, if this volatility were to continue, it would affect the amount of interest payable on our debt, which in turn, could have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. Recently, however, lenders have insisted on provisions that entitle the lenders, in their discretion, to replace published LIBOR as the base for the interest calculation with their cost-of-funds rate. If we are required to agree to such a provision in future loan agreements, our lending costs could increase significantly, which would have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. It may not be possible for investors to enforce U.S. judgments against us. We and all our subsidiaries are incorporated in jurisdictions outside the U.S., substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries are located outside the U.S. In addition, most of our directors and officers are non-residents of the U.S., and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to serve process within the U.S. upon us, our subsidiaries or our directors and officers or to enforce a judgment against us for civil liabilities in U.S. courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we or our subsidiaries are incorporated or where our or the assets of our subsidiaries are located (1) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our subsidiaries based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws or (2) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or our subsidiaries based on those laws. 17 U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a "passive foreign investment company," which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company", or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of "passive income." For purposes of these tests, "passive income" includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income." U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime applicable to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our method of operation, we do not believe that we have been, are or will be a PFIC. In this regard, we treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our chartering activities does not constitute "passive income," and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our method of operation. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders would face adverse and special U.S. tax consequences. Among other things, the distributions a shareholder received with respect to our shares and the gain, if any, a shareholder derived from his sale or other disposition of our shares would be taxable as ordinary income (rather than as qualified dividend income or capital gain, as the case may be), would be treated as realized ratably over his holding period in our common shares, and would be subject to an additional interest charge. However, a U.S. shareholder may be able to make certain tax elections that would ameliorate these consequences. We may have to pay tax on United States source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel-owning or chartering corporation, such as our Company and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as U.S.-source shipping income and is subject to a 4% United States federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the related Treasury Regulations. We expect that we and each of our subsidiaries qualifies for this statutory tax exemption, and we take this position for United States federal income tax reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to United States federal income tax on our United States-source income. For example, Aries Energy Corporation, or Aries Energy (through its wholly-owned subsidiary Rocket Marine Inc., or Rocket Marine), owns approximately 52% of our outstanding common shares. We are ineligible to qualify for exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year in which Aries Energy alone or together with other shareholders with a 5% or greater interest in our common shares, or the 5% shareholder group, own 50% or more of our outstanding common shares on more than half the days during such taxable year and we are unable to establish in accordance with the Treasury Regulations that within the 5% shareholder group there are sufficient qualified shareholders for purposes of Section 883 to preclude non-qualified shareholders within such group from owning 50% or more of the value of our common stock for more than half the number of days during the taxable year. In order to establish this, qualified shareholders within the 5% shareholder group would have to provide us with certain information in order to substantiate their identity as qualified shareholders. Captain Gabriel Petridis, a 50% beneficial owner of Aries Energy, has agreed to provide us with such information. Notwithstanding this agreement, we may be unable to establish in conformity with the Treasury Regulations that there are sufficient qualified shareholders within the 5% shareholder group to allow us to qualify for exemption under Section 883. Due to the factual nature of the issues involved, we can give no assurances regarding our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries for any future taxable year. 18 If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to exemption under Section 883 of the Code for any taxable year, the imposition of a 4% U.S. federal income tax on our U.S.-source shipping income and that of our subsidiaries could have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The market price of our common shares has fluctuated widely and the market price of our common shares may fluctuate in the future. The market price of our common shares has fluctuated widely since we became a public company in June 2005 and may continue to do so as a result of many factors, including our actual results of operations and perceived prospects, the prospects of our competition and of the shipping industry in general and in particular the product tanker and container vessel sectors, differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts, changes in analysts' recommendations or projections, changes in general valuations for companies in the shipping industry, particularly the product tanker and container vessel sectors, changes in general economic or market conditions and broad market fluctuations. Our common shares have traded below $5.00 per share, and the last reported sale price on The Nasdaq Global Market on June 25, 2009 was $0.76 per share. If the market price of our common shares remains below $5.00 per share, under stock exchange rules, our shareholders will not be able to use such shares as collateral for borrowing in margin accounts. This inability to continue to use our common shares as collateral may lead to sales of such shares thereby creating downward pressure on and increased volatility in the market price of our common shares. In addition, under the rules of The Nasdaq Stock Market, listed companies have historically been required to maintain a share price of at least $1.00 per share and if the share price declines below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days, then the listed company would have a cure period of at least 180 days to regain compliance with the $1.00 per share minimum. In light of recently deteriorating market conditions, under a rule change recently approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Nasdaq Stock Market has temporarily suspended the minimum share price requirement through July 19, 2009. Following the expiration of the suspension, in the event that our share price declines below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days, we may be required to take action, such as a reverse stock split, in order to comply with Nasdaq rules that may be in effect at the time. There may not be an active market for our common shares, which may cause our common shares to trade at a discount and make it difficult to sell the common shares you purchase. We cannot assure you that an active trading market for our common shares will be sustained. We cannot assure you of the price at which our common shares will trade in the public market in the future or that the price of our shares in the public market will reflect our actual financial performance. You may not be able to resell your common shares at or above their current market price. Additionally, a lack of liquidity may result in wide bid-ask spreads, contribute to significant fluctuations in the market price of our common shares and limit the number of investors who are able to buy the common shares. The product tanker and container vessel sectors have been highly unpredictable and volatile. The market price of our common shares may be similarly volatile. Future sales of our common shares could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. The market price of our common shares could decline due to sales of a large number of shares in the market, including sales of shares by our large shareholders, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the perception that these sales could occur, could also make it more difficult or impossible for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate to raise funds through future offerings of common shares. Aries Energy owns approximately 52% of our common shares. Aries Energy through Rocket Marine is eligible to sell any of our common shares, directly or indirectly, in the public market. We have entered into a registration rights agreement with Rocket Marine that entitles it to have all of its remaining shares registered for sale in the public market. In addition, these shares could be sold into the public market after one year pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, subject to certain volume, manner of sale and notice requirements. Sales or the possibility of sales of substantial amounts of our common shares by Aries Energy in the public markets could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Rocket Marine Inc., an affiliate, owns approximately 52% of our outstanding common shares and as a result, Rocket Marine is able to control the outcome of shareholder votes. Rocket Marine Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Aries Energy, owns approximately 52% of our outstanding common shares. As a result of this share ownership and for so long as Rocket Marine owns a significant percentage of our outstanding common shares, Rocket Marine will be able to control or influence the outcome of any shareholder vote, including the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our memorandum of association or bye-laws and possible mergers, amalgamations, corporate control contests and other significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, merger, amalgamation, consolidation, takeover or other business combination. This concentration of ownership could also discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which could in turn have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. In addition, this concentration of ownership has had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on the liquidity of our common shares. 19 On June 24, 2009, we signed a non-binding letter of intent (LOI) with Grandunion, a company controlled by Michael Zolotas and Nicholas Fistes, that contemplates, among other things, the acquisition of three Capesize drybulk carriers with an approximate net asset value of $36.0 million in exchange for 15,977,778 newly issued shares of Aries Maritime and a change of control of our board of directors. Please see “Item 4.A. History and Development of the Company – Recent Developments” for further information concerning the LOI. If this transaction occurs, Grandunion and Rocket Marine would control in the aggregate, approximately 69% of our outstanding common shares. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger, amalgamation or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Several provisions of our bye-laws could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable. These include provisions: · authorizing our board of directors to issue "blank check" preference shares without shareholder approval; · establishing a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; · prohibiting us from engaging in a "business combination" with an " interested shareholder" for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person becomes an interested shareholder unless certain conditions are met; · not permitting cumulative voting in the election of directors; · authorizing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of our outstanding common shares; · limiting the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders to our board of directors, subject to certain rights guaranteed to shareholders under the BCA; and · establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at our shareholder meetings. These provisions could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger, amalgamation or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. 20 ITEM 