D. Risk Factors The following risks relate principally to the industries in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate to the securities market and ownership of our common shares. If any of the circumstances or events described below actually arises or occurs, our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends in the future could be materially adversely affected. In any such case, the market price of our common shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Company Specific Risk Factors There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements were prepared using principles under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States of America (GAAP) applicable to a going concern. Because of our losses, working capital deficiencies, negative operating cash flow and shareholders’ deficiency, we concluded that there is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. We have experienced net losses, negative operating cash flows, working capital deficiencies, and have a shareholders’ deficiency, which have affected, and which are expected to continue to affect, our ability to satisfy our obligations. In addition, we are in default under various debt obligations which are currently due on demand. Charter rates for bulkers have experienced a high degree of volatility and continue to be distressed. The coal business has experienced some of the lowest prices in coal history. However, charter rates for the oil tanker/asphalt carriers are within expected levels. To date, we have also been unable to generate sustainable positive cash flows from operating activities. For the year ended December 31, 2014, our loss from continuing operations was $68.3 million. As of December 31, 2014, the Company’s cash and cash equivalents were $0.4 million and current liabilities of $247.5 million including $122.3 million of debt and convertible notes in default due on demand, were payable within the next twelve months. The above conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of asset carrying amounts or the amount and classification of liabilities that might result should we are unable to continue as a going concern. We believe that our existing cash resources, combined with projected cash flows from operations, will not be sufficient to execute our business plan and continue operations for the next twelve months. Our existence is dependent upon our ability to obtain necessary financing, which we are currently in the process of attempting to secure. In addition, we intend to continue to explore various strategic alternatives. Management is also actively taking steps to increase future revenues and reduce our future operating expenses. However, we cannot provide any assurance that operating results will generate sufficient cash flow to meet our working capital needs or that we will be able to raise additional financing as needed. If all of our indebtedness was accelerated as a result of our current events of default, we may not have sufficient funds at the time of acceleration to repay most of our indebtedness and we may not be able to find additional or alternative financing to refinance any such accelerated obligations on terms acceptable to us or on any terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue as a going concern. 4 Table Of Contents Our existing debt agreements and our future debt agreements contain and will contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly impact our ability to operate our business and if we receive waivers and/or restructure our remaining indebtedness, our lenders may impose additional restrictions on us and/or modify the terms of our loans. Any default or breach of the covenants in our debt agreements could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial position. Our facility agreements require us to maintain compliance with certain financial covenants as of the end of each fiscal quarter. They contain certain restrictions and limitations that could significantly limit our ability to operate our business. In the absence of a consent or waiver, these restrictions may limit our ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • create liens on our assets; • make investments; • engage in recapitalizations and acquisitions; • redeem capital stock; • make capital expenditures; • change the management of our vessels or terminate the management agreements we have relating to our vessels; • enter into long-term charter arrangements without the consent of the lender; and • sell any of our vessels. In addition, our existing credit facilities require us, among other things, to maintain compliance with financial covenants, including, but not limited to the maintenance of the following ratios (all as defined in the respective credit facilities): • specific ratios of shareholders’ equity as a percentage of our total assets, adjusting the book value of our fleet to its market value; • working capital of not less than zero dollars; • maintenance of minimum liquidity requirements at five per cent of the outstanding loans; • maintenance of ratio of EBITDA to interest payable to specific levels; • maintenance of specific value to loan ratios; • cash sweep on the earnings of the vessels; • minimum interest coverage ratios; and • minimum market adjusted equity ratios. As a result of such covenants, we will need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate and commercial actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business, and a denial of permission may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. As discussed elsewhere in this annual report, we are also in default under certain of our debt agreements and as a result, our lenders’ interests may be different from our interests, our shareholders’ interests or the interests of the holders of our notes, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders’ permission when needed or at all. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest. Any future debt agreement, including debt agreements entered into in connection with financing our coal business, may include similar or more restrictive covenants. 5 Table Of Contents Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our existing and future debt agreements and other indebtedness may be affected by economic, financial and industry conditions and other factors beyond our control. If we are not able to come to a resolution with our lenders regarding our existing defaults or, if we are able to come to a successful resolution, but default on our future debt obligations, and such defaults are not waived by the relevant lenders, the applicable creditors may accelerate such indebtedness and, in the absence of any agreement with the lenders, if such indebtedness is secured, such creditors could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. In any such case, we may be unable to borrow under our credit facility agreements, if any are available at such time, and may not be able to repay the outstanding amounts due under our credit facility agreements and our outstanding notes. Furthermore, if any of our debt is accelerated, all of our other indebtedness may be accelerated pursuant to cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. This could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. Our ability to comply with these covenants will also depend substantially on the value of our assets, our charter rates, our success at keeping our costs low and our ability to successfully implement our overall business strategy. Any future credit agreement or amendment or debt instrument may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. Furthermore, in connection with any waivers and/or restructuring of our remaining indebtedness, our lenders may impose additional requirements or restrictions on us. Such additional restrictions may further limit our ability to engage in actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our company. As discussed elsewhere in this annual report, we are currently in default under certain of our debt agreements and are in the process of attempting to restructure certain of our remaining indebtedness. See “Item 5.-Operating and Financial Review and Prospects-Recent Developments” and the risk factor above titled “There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern”. We are highly leveraged, anticipate that we will continue to have a high degree of leverage, and may incur substantial additional debt, which could materially adversely affect our financial health and our ability to obtain financing in the future, react to changes in our business and make debt service payments. As of December 31, 2014, our outstanding indebtedness was $207.2 million, including $122.3 million of debt and convertible notes in default due on demand. Despite our efforts, as of May 12, 2015, we continue to have a substantial amount of indebtedness amounting to approximately $211.8 million, including $149.7 million of debt and convertible notes in default due on demand, excluding the Beneficial Conversion Feature (“BCF”) of the 7% Notes. (see Item 5 for amount currently in default) Although it is likely that any agreements governing our future indebtedness, including the terms of any indebtedness remaining outstanding as a result of the restructuring, will contain limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, the covenants in such debt agreements typically contain a number of exceptions. As such, we may still be able to incur a significant amount of additional indebtedness. Our high level of indebtedness could have important consequences to our shareholders. As discussed elsewhere in this annual report, we are currently unable to meet certain of our debt service requirements and our indebtedness remains significant. Since our relative leverage continues to remain high after our restructuring during the period 2011 through 2013, and since we have a diminished basis from which we can generate revenue, and since our recent coal business acquisitions have not yet fully commenced operations, there is no assurance we will be able to service our significant indebtedness. Because we are highly leveraged, we will continue to remain subject to the following risks: • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, vessel or other acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired in the future; • if new debt is added to our debt levels, the related risks that we now face would increase and we may not be able to meet all of our debt obligations; • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes, and there can be no assurance that our operations will generate sufficient cash flow to service this indebtedness; • we will be exposed to the risk of increased interest rates because our borrowings under facility agreements will be at variable rates of interest; • it may be more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to our lenders, resulting in possible defaults on and acceleration of such indebtedness and the cross-acceleration or cross-default of our other indebtedness; • we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; 6 Table Of Contents • we may be at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt or comparable debt at more favorable interest rates; • our ability to refinance indebtedness may be limited or the associated costs may increase; and • our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions and ability to withstand competitive pressures could be limited, or we may be prevented from carrying out capital spending that is necessary or important to our growth strategy and efforts to improve operating margins or our business. Highly leveraged companies are significantly more vulnerable to unanticipated downturns and setbacks, whether directly related to their business or flowing from a general economic or industry condition, and therefore are more vulnerable to a business failure or bankruptcy. Accordingly, it also heightens the risk of owning our securities. The market values of our vessels and the related charters, if applicable, have declined and may further decrease, which could lead to the loss of our vessels and/or we may incur a loss if we sell vessels following a decline in their market value. The fair values of our vessels have generally experienced high volatility and have recently declined significantly. If we sell one or more of our vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our consolidated financial statements, the sale may be less than the vessel’s carrying value on our consolidated financial statements, resulting in a loss and a reduction in earnings. Furthermore, if vessel values fall significantly, we may have to record further impairment adjustments in our consolidated financial statements, which could materially adversely affect our financial results. Furthermore, our existing debt agreements contain, and our future debt agreements may contain, financial covenants based on a security cover ratio. We are currently in breach of the security cover ratio under certain of our debt arrangements (see “Item 5.-Operating and Financial Review and Prospects-Liquidity and Capital Resources”) and we may violate similar covenants in any future debt agreements if the values of our vessels decrease significantly. Any such violation would materially and adversely affect our financial condition. We have sold, and might continue to sell, vessels as part of arrangements with our lenders to reduce and discharge our obligations. During the period from September 2011 to July 2012, we sold, disposed of or handed control over to our lenders 20 of our vessels and hulls under construction (or our ownership of the shipowning subsidiaries) in connection with our restructuring. To the extent that we have sold our vessels, the sales proceeds have been used to repay related debt. We are currently in negotiations with certain of our lenders, namely Piraeus Bank (CPB loan). Our negotiations with Piraeus Bank (CPB loan) aim to amend the terms of our loan agreement, whereby the agreement will be amended and restated to enable us to comply with certain of its covenants on an ongoing basis and enable the Newlead Markela, a dry bulk Panamax vessel, to remain in our fleet. There can be no assurance that we will be able to reach a final arrangement with Piraeus Bank (CPB loan) at acceptable terms or at all. Furthermore, the amended agreement with Portigon states that Portigon will have the option to demand the sale of the vessel Newlead Victoria at any time the market value of the vessel is at least equal to the amount of the loan outstanding on that date. Portigon will be entitled to 75% of the balance of the proceeds after repayment of the outstanding loan balance, any other amounts owned under the loan agreement (i.e. accrued interest), any direct sale costs approved by Portigon and any trade debt outside the owned fleet for an amount which will not exceed in the aggregate $0.5 million. We have historically derived a significant part of our revenue from a small number of charterers. For the year ended December 31, 2014, 49% of our revenue from continuing operations was derived from two charterers (each of which comprised 41% and 8% of revenues, respectively and all other charterers comprising below 5%). For the year ended December 31, 2013, 100% of our revenue from continuing operations was derived from three charterers (each of which comprised 83%, 13% and 4% of revenues, respectively). For the years ended December 31, 2012, approximately 100% of our revenue was derived from two charterers (each of which comprised 70% and 30% of revenues, respectively). The loss of charterers upon whom we have historically been dependent may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 7 Table Of Contents Our charterers may terminate or default on their charters, which could materially affect our results of operations and cash flow. When the charter agreements expire or terminate, we will need to find new employment for the respective vessels in the currently depressed charter market, which may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Our charterers may terminate their charters earlier than the dates indicated in their charter agreements. The terms of our charters vary as to which events or occurrences will cause a charter to terminate or give the charterer the option to terminate the charter, but these generally include a total or constructive total loss of the related vessel, the requisition for hire of the related vessel or the failure of the related vessel to meet specified performance criteria. In addition, the ability of each of our charterers to perform its obligations under a charter will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control. These factors may include general economic conditions, the condition of a specific shipping market sector, the charter rates received for specific types of vessels and various operating expenses. The costs and delays associated with the default by a charterer of a vessel may be considerable and may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Recent economic conditions have caused certain of our charterers to experience financial difficulties. This has resulted in an increase in the time it takes for us to realize our receivables. We cannot predict whether our charterers will, upon the expiration of their charters, re-charter our vessels on favorable terms or at all. If our charterers decide not to re-charter our vessels, we may not be able to re-charter them on terms similar to the terms of our current charters. In the future, we may continue to employ our vessels on the spot charter market, which is subject to greater rate fluctuation than the time charter market. Currently, charter rates for bulkers, after showing signs of stabilization for a period, have declined to levels of lower than the 10 year historical average. In addition, in depressed market conditions, our charterers may no longer need a vessel that is currently under charter or may be able to obtain a comparable vessel at lower rates. As a result, charterers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing charter parties or avoid their obligations under those contracts. Should counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The spot charter market is highly competitive and freight rates within this market are highly volatile, while longer-term charter contracts provide income at pre-determined rates over more extended periods of time. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in keeping our remaining vessels under long-term agreements or keeping them fully employed in the short-term markets, if needed, or that future spot rates will be sufficient to enable any of such vessels to be operated profitably. A significant decrease in spot market rates or our inability to fully employ our vessels by taking advantage of the spot market would reduce the incremental revenue received from spot chartering and adversely affect our results of operation, including our profitability and cash flows, which, in turn, could impair our ability to service our debt. Our vessels may be subject to periods of off-hire, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under the terms of the charter agreements under which our vessels operate, when a vessel is “off-hire,” or not available for service or otherwise deficient in its condition or performance, the charterer generally is not required to pay the hire rate, and we will be responsible for all costs (including the cost of bunker fuel) unless the charterer is responsible for the circumstances giving rise to the lack of availability. A vessel generally will be deemed to be off-hire if there is an occurrence preventing the full working of the vessel due to, among other things: • operational deficiencies; • the removal of a vessel from the water for repairs, maintenance or inspection, which is referred to as dry-docking; • equipment breakdowns; • delays due to accidents or deviations from course; • occurrence of hostilities in the vessel’s flag state; • crewing strikes, labor boycotts, certain vessel detentions or similar problems; or 8 Table Of Contents • our failure to maintain the vessel in compliance with its specifications, contractual standards and applicable country of registry and international regulations or to provide the required crew. Furthermore, while the vessel is seized by pirates, the charterer may withhold charter payments until the vessel is released. A charterer may also claim that a vessel seized by pirates was not “on-hire” for a certain number of days and it is therefore entitled to cancel the charter party, a claim that we would dispute. Despite the fact that our vessels are covered against such risks, we may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, any detention and/or hijacking of our vessels as a result of an act of piracy, or an increase in cost or unavailability of insurance for our vessels could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to reinstate the payment of dividends. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping and coal industries, which may negatively impact the effectiveness of our management and our results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team. Our success will depend upon our ability to retain key members of our management team and to hire new members as may be necessary. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining replacement personnel could have a similar effect. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance on any of our officers. If we are unable to operate the oil tanker/asphalt carriers, we may be unsuccessful in competing in the oil tanker/asphalt carriers market. The operation of oil tanker/asphalt carriers and transportation of petroleum products is extremely competitive. Competition arises primarily from oil tanker/asphalt carriers’ owners, including major oil companies as well as independent oil tanker/asphalt carriers companies, some of whom have substantially greater resources than our own. Competition for the transportation of oil and oil products can be intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the tanker and its operators to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter the oil tanker/asphalt carriers shipping markets and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions and may be able to offer lower charter rates and higher quality vessels than we are able to offer. We may not be able to compete profitably in new geographic regions or provide new services. New markets may require different skills, knowledge or strategies, and the competitors in those new markets may have greater financial strength and capital resources than we do. The operation of oil tanker/asphalt carriers involves certain unique operational risks. The operation of oil tanker/asphalt carriers has unique operational risks associated with the transportation of oil or asphalt. Compared to other types of vessels, oil tanker/asphalt carriers are exposed to a higher risk of damage and loss by fire, whether ignited by a terrorist attack, collision, or other cause, due to the high flammability and high volume of the oil or asphalt transported in oil tanker/asphalt carriers. If we are unable to maintain or safeguard the vessels under our operations adequately, we may be unable to prevent these events. Any of these circumstances or events could negatively impact our business. In addition, the loss of any of the oil tanker/asphalt carriers under our operations could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. We may not be able to grow or effectively manage our growth, which may negatively impact our cash flows and operating results A part of our strategy may involve growth through expanding our fleet as opportunities are identified. Our future growth will depend on a number of factors. One of our potential growth strategies is to expand our fleet as opportunities are identified and the success of this strategy will depend on numerous factors. These factors include our ability to: • identify vessels for acquisition; • secure the necessary financing for the acquisitions; • consummate acquisitions; • integrate acquired vessels successfully with our existing operations; • identify businesses engaged in managing, operating or owning vessels for acquisitions or joint ventures; • hire, train and retain qualified personnel and crew to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; 9 Table Of Contents • identify additional new markets; • improve our operating, financial and accounting systems and controls; and • obtain required financing for our existing and new operations. A deficiency in any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve growth. In addition, competition from other buyers could reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay a higher price than we might otherwise pay. The process of integrating acquired vessels into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties, may absorb significant management attention and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development and expansion of our existing operations. Future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional indebtedness and liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Further, if we issue additional common shares, your interest in our Company will be diluted. Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain our vessels may increase due to changes in governmental regulations or safety or other equipment standards. Changes in governmental regulations or safety or other equipment standards, as well as compliance with standards imposed by maritime self-regulatory organizations and customer requirements or competition, may require us to make additional expenditures to operate and maintain our vessels. These expenditures could increase as a result of changes in: • the cost of our labor and materials; • the cost of suitable replacement vessels; • customer/market requirements; • increases in the size of our fleet; and • governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards relating to safety, security or the environment. In order to satisfy these requirements, we may, from time to time, be required to take our vessels out of service for extended periods of time, with corresponding losses of revenues. In the future, market conditions may not justify these expenditures or enable us to operate some or all of our vessels profitably during the remainder of their economic lives. If we are unable to fund our capital expenditures, we may not be able to operate our vessels, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. In order to fund our capital expenditures, we may be required to incur additional borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or equity securities. Our ability to access the capital markets through future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such offering as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Generally, significant capital expenditures are required to take delivery of future newbuilding vessels, if any. In addition, our existing vessels may require significant capital expenditures, such as expenditures for scheduled and unscheduled dry-docking and regulatory compliance, to continue operations. As a result, the failure to obtain the funds necessary for our capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 10 Table Of Contents Unless we set aside reserves or are able to borrow funds for vessel replacement, our revenue will decline at the end of a vessel’s useful life, which would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Unless we maintain reserves or are able to borrow or raise funds for vessel replacement, we will be unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives, which we estimate to be 25 to 30 years, except as otherwise extended. Our cash flows and income are dependent on the revenues earned by the chartering of our vessels to customers. If we are unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives, our business, results of operations and financial condition in the future will be materially and adversely affected. Any reserves set aside for vessel replacement may not be available for dividends, if any, in the future. Exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations will result in fluctuations in our cash flows and operating results. Our vessel-owning subsidiaries generate revenues in U.S. dollars but incur certain expenses in other currencies, primarily Euros. During the year ended December 31, 2014, the value of the U.S. dollar reached a high of $1.38 and a low of $1.23 compared to the Euro. Due to the sovereign debt crisis in certain EU-member countries, the U.S. dollar-Euro exchange rate continues to experience volatility. An adverse or positive movement in these currencies could increase our expenses. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we experienced $0.03 million realized negative effect. However, we experienced $0.48 million unrealized positive effect of exchange rate movement. Our incorporation under the laws of Bermuda may limit the ability of our shareholders to protect their interests. We are a Bermuda registered company. Our memorandum of association and bye-laws and the Bermuda Companies Act of 1981, as amended (the “BCA”), govern our corporate affairs. Investors may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. Under Bermuda law, a director generally owes a fiduciary duty only to the company, not to the company’s shareholders. Our shareholders may not have a direct cause of action against our directors. In addition, Bermuda law does not provide mechanism for shareholders to bring a class action lawsuit. Furthermore, our bye-laws provide for the indemnification of our directors or officers against any liability arising out of any act or omission, except for an act or omission constituting fraud or dishonesty. There is a statutory remedy under Section 111 of the BCA, which provides that a shareholder may seek redress in the courts as long as such shareholder can establish that our affairs are being conducted, or have been conducted, in a manner oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some of our shareholders, including such shareholder. If the recent volatility in LIBOR continues, it could affect our profitability, earnings and cash flow. LIBOR has recently been very low. These conditions are the result of the recent disruptions in the international credit markets. However, an increase in LIBOR rates may be expected. Because the interest rates borne by our outstanding indebtedness fluctuate with changes in LIBOR, if an increase is to be realized, it would affect the amount of interest payable on our debt, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. Recently, however, lenders have insisted on provisions that entitle the lenders, in their discretion, to replace published LIBOR as the base for the interest calculation with their cost-of-funds rate. If we are required to agree to such a provision in future loan agreements, our lending costs could increase significantly, which would have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. It may not be possible for investors to enforce U.S. judgments against us. We and a number of our subsidiaries are incorporated in jurisdictions outside the U.S., and part of our assets and those of our subsidiaries are located outside the U.S. In addition, all of our directors and officers are non-residents of the U.S., and all or a substantial portion of the assets of such officers and directors are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to serve process within the U.S. upon us, our subsidiaries or our directors and officers to enforce a judgment against us or our subsidiaries for civil liabilities in U.S. courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we or our subsidiaries are incorporated or where our or the assets of our subsidiaries are located (1) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our subsidiaries based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws or (2) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or our subsidiaries based on the laws of such jurisdictions. 11 Table Of Contents U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s assets (determined as of the end of each quarter of the foreign corporation’s taxable year) produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property, rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business and the excess of gains over losses from transactions in any commodities (gains and losses from certain “qualified active sales” and qualified hedging transactions are excluded from “passive income”). For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime applicable to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC, and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our method of operation, through the end of 2014, we do not believe that we have been a PFIC. We may, however, be a PFIC in 2015 and/or in future taxable years. In this regard, we treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our chartering activities does not constitute “passive income,” and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. In addition, no assurance can be given that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for 2015 or any future taxable year due to changes in the nature and extent of our assets and operations, including our entry into the commodities business. If, for example, the activity of purchasing and trading coal gives rise to at least 85% of our taxable income for any taxable year, it would be considered active income under the “qualified active sales” exception; if not most likely passive income. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders would face adverse and special U.S. tax consequences. Among other things, the distributions a shareholder received with respect to our shares and the gain, if any, a shareholder derived from his sale or other disposition of our shares would be taxable as ordinary income (rather than as qualified dividend income or capital gain, as the case may be), would be treated as realized ratably over his holding period in our common shares, and would be subject to an additional interest charge. However, a U.S. shareholder may be able to make certain tax elections that would ameliorate these consequences. See the discussion under “Item 10.-Additional Information-Taxation-United States Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders-Passive Foreign Investment Company Status and Significant Tax Consequences.” We may have to pay tax on U.S.-source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the United States Internal Revenue Code, referred to herein as the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel-owning or chartering corporation, such as our Company and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as U.S.-source shipping income and is subject to a 4% United States federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the related treasury regulations, referred to herein as “Treasury Regulations”. We expect that we and each of our subsidiaries qualify for this statutory tax exemption, and we take this position for United States federal income tax reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to United States federal income tax on our U.S.-source income. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to exemption under Section 883 of the Code for any taxable year, the imposition of a 4% U.S. federal income tax on our U.S.-source shipping income and that of our subsidiaries could have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. See the discussion under “Item 10.-Additional Information-Taxation- United States Federal Income Taxation of Our Company.” 12 Table Of Contents Being a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain SEC requirements. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable provisions applicable to United States public companies including: • The rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; • The sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; • The provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; and • The sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction (i.e. a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months). Because of these exemptions, investors are not afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States. 13 Table Of Contents Industry Specific Risk Factors Charter rates for dry bulk vessels are experiencing high volatility and, in view of the cyclical nature of the business, may decrease further in the future, which may adversely affect our earnings. The degree of charter rate volatility among different types of dry bulk vessels has varied widely and after reaching historical highs in mid-2008, charter rates for dry bulk vessels have declined significantly. If the shipping industry is depressed when our charters expire or are otherwise terminated, our revenues, earnings and available cash flow may be adversely affected. In addition, a further decline in charter rates will likely cause the value of our vessels to further decline. Also, in case any of our charterers experience financial difficulties, it may result in an increase in time for us to realize our receivables and/or our charterers may be unable to fulfill their obligations under their charters. If any of our charterers are unable to perform their obligations, we may be forced to reclaim and re-charter the related vessel(s). Given the currently depressed market conditions, we may not be able to successfully charter these vessels in the future or renew our existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to operate our business profitably. We anticipate that the future demand for our dry bulk carriers and dry bulk charter rates will be dependent upon demand for imported commodities, economic growth in the emerging markets, including the Asia Pacific region (including China), India, Brazil and Russia and the rest of the world, seasonal and regional changes in demand and changes to the capacity of the world fleet. Recent adverse economic, political, social or other developments have decreased demand and prospects for growth in the shipping industry and thereby could reduce revenue significantly. A decline in demand for commodities transported in dry bulk carriers or an increase in supply of dry bulk vessels could cause a further decline in charter rates, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If we sell a vessel at a time when the market value of our vessels has fallen, the sale may be at less than the vessel’s carrying amount, resulting in a loss. The dry bulk vessel markets are cyclical with high volatility in charter rates and industry profitability. The factors affecting the supply and demand for dry bulk vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable. The nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. The factors that influence the demand for tonnage capacity include: • demand for cargoes (e.g. coal, raw materials, agricultural products and steel products for bulkers); • supply of cargoes; • continuing growth of industrialization in the emerging countries; • the globalization of manufacturing; • global and regional economic and political conditions; • armed conflicts, acts of piracy and terrorism; • developments in international trade; • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances over which cargoes are transported; • environmental and other regulatory developments; • currency exchange rates; and • weather. The factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: • the number of newbuilding deliveries; • the scrapping activity and age of vessels in the existing world fleet; • the price of steel; 14 Table Of Contents • changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful lives of vessels; • the conversion of vessels from one type to another; • vessel casualties; • the number of vessels that are used for storage; • the number of vessels that are in or out of service; and • port or canal congestion and increased waiting days at port. If the number of new vessels delivered exceeds the number of vessels being scrapped, lost and converted, tonnage capacity will increase. If the supply of tonnage capacity increases but the demand for tonnage capacity does not increase correspondingly, charter rates and vessel values could materially decline. Downturns in the oil tanker/asphalt carriers and dry bulk vessels charter markets may have an adverse effect on our earnings, affect compliance with our existing and future loan covenants and our ability to pay dividends if reinstated in the future. Charter rates for dry bulk vessels have declined sharply since the highs of 2008. The increase of supply (because of the newbuilding deliveries) and the decrease of demand (because of slowdown of the world economies) drove down charter rates during the period from the second half of 2008 to 2014. Charter rates started falling during the second half of 2008 and weakened gradually to the lowest level in December of the same year. Afterwards, and while a steady upturn happened during 2009 and the first half of 2010, charter rates experienced a further drop until 2014, mainly due to the newbuilding deliveries which had started to hit the market. Such drop is reflected on the average of the 4TC routes of Panamax Baltic Index which averaged at $19,295 and $25,041 in 2009 and 2010 accordingly, while then dropped down to $9,712 per day as the average for the period between 2011 and 2014. If the market remains at or below these levels, it will have a negative effect on our earnings. We endeavor to charter vessels in our fleet under period charters with floor hire rates plus profit sharing elements in order to benefit from a potential increase in the charter market. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into such period charters with upside potential. Our ability to re-charter tanker vessels on the expiration or termination of our current charters, the charter rates payable under any replacement charters and vessel values will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the oil tanker/asphalt carriers markets at that time, changes in the supply and demand for vessel capacity and changes in the supply and demand for oil and oil products. Furthermore, the recent economic slowdown in the U.S. and Japan, together with the deteriorating economic situation in Europe caused by the sovereign debt crises in certain European Union (“EU”) member countries, may further reduce demand for transportation of oil over long distances and supply of tankers that carry oil, which may materially and adversely affect our future revenues. Disruptions in world financial markets, global economic weakness and the resulting governmental action in the United States and in other parts of the world could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could cause the market price of our common shares to further decline. Many parts of the world experienced deteriorating economic trends and were in a recession in 2008 and 2009 and continued to experience weakness thereafter and up to now. Despite recent signs of recovery, the outlook for the world economy remains uncertain. General market volatility has resulted from uncertainty about sovereign debt and fears of countries such as Greece, Portugal, Cyprus, Spain and Ireland defaulting on their governments’ financial obligations. In addition, continued hostilities in the Middle East and recent tensions in North Africa could adversely affect the economies of the United States and other countries. 15 Table Of Contents The credit markets in the United States have experienced significant contraction, deleveraging and reduced liquidity, and the United States federal government and state governments have implemented and are considering a broad variety of governmental action and/or new regulation of the financial markets. Securities and futures markets and the credit markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The SEC, other regulators, self-regulatory organizations and exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies, and may affect changes in law or interpretations of existing laws. We anticipate that a significant number of the port calls made by our vessels will continue to involve the loading or discharging of commodities in ports in the Asia Pacific region. In recent years, China has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, which has had a significant impact on shipping demand. As a result, negative changes in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, particularly in China, may exacerbate the effect of recent slowdowns in the economies of the United States and the European Union and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. Moreover, the current economic weakness in the economies of the United States, the European Union and other Asian countries may further adversely affect economic growth in China and other emerging countries. Our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, will likely be materially and adversely affected by a further economic downturn in any of these countries. We face risks attendant to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates, and instability in the banking and securities markets around the world, among other factors. Major market disruptions and the current adverse changes in market conditions and regulatory climate in the United States and worldwide may adversely affect our business or impair our ability to borrow amounts under any existing or future financial arrangements. We cannot predict how long the current market conditions will last. However, these recent and developing economic and governmental factors, together with the concurrent decline in charter rates and vessel values, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. The instability of the euro or the inability of countries to refinance their debts could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and financial position. As a result of the credit crisis in Europe, in particular in Greece, Italy, Ireland, Cyprus, Portugal and Spain, the European Commission created the European Financial Stability Facility, or the EFSF, and the European Financial Stability Mechanism, or the EFSM, to provide funding to Eurozone countries in financial difficulties that seek such support. In March 2011, the European Council agreed on the need for Eurozone countries to establish a permanent stability mechanism, the European Stability Mechanism, or the ESM, which was established on September 27, 2012, to assume the roles of the EFSF and the EFSM in providing external financial assistance to Eurozone countries. Despite these measures, concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain Eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations and the overall stability of the euro. An extended period of adverse development in the outlook for European countries could reduce the overall demand for oil and gas and for our services. These potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. 16 Table Of Contents Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the government to regulate its economy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) in such respects as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation and balance of payments position. Prior to 1978, the Chinese economy was a planned economy. Since 1978, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy. Annual and five-year state plans are adopted by the Chinese government in connection with the development of the economy. Although state-owned enterprises still account for a substantial portion of the Chinese industrial output, in general, the Chinese government is reducing the level of direct control that it exercises over the economy through state plans and other measures. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a “market economy” and enterprise reform. Limited price reforms were undertaken, with the result that prices for certain commodities are principally determined by market forces. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition based upon the outcome of such experiments. Recently, China began appointing new members to its Politburo Standing Committee, who are replacing members of the committee who have served for periods of up to 10 years, which obscures the future policy plans of the country. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue a policy of economic reform, the level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws, regulations or export and import restrictions, all of which could, adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The value of our vessels may fluctuate, which may adversely affect our liquidity. Vessel values can fluctuate substantially over time due to a number of different factors, including: • general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; • increase/decrease in demand for vessels’ acquisitions; • the types and sizes of available vessels; • increase/decrease in the supply of tonnage capacity; • expected newbuilding deliveries and future market expectations; • the cost of newbuildings; • scrap price (particularly for older vessels); • availability of acquisition finance; • prevailing charter rates; and • technological advances in vessel design or equipment, changes in applicable environmental or other regulations or standards, or otherwise. In addition, as vessels grow older, and provided that all other factors remain the same, they generally decline in value. Due to the cyclical nature of the oil tanker/asphalt carriers and dry bulk vessel markets, if for any reason we sell vessels at a time when prices have fallen, we could incur a loss and our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends in the future could be adversely affected. Furthermore, our existing debt agreements contain, and our future debt agreements may contain, financial covenants based on a security cover ratio. We are currently in breach of the security cover ratio under our debt arrangements (see “Item 5.-Operating and Financial Review and Prospects-Liquidity and Capital Resources”) and we may violate similar covenants in any future debt agreements if the values of our vessels decrease significantly. Any such violation would materially and adversely affect our financial condition. 17 Table Of Contents An oversupply of oil tanker / asphalt carrier capacity may lead to reductions in freight rates, which could materially adversely affect our profitability. Oil tanker / asphalt carrier market is niche and highly dependent upon the number of similar vessels which are trading in each geographic area. In case more vessels are repositioned in the area(s) where our vessels are trading, supply will be increased and a possible oversupply might have a negative effect on the freight rates and our profitability. Another factor, which may lead to oversupply, stands on the newbuilding vessels entering the market. As of February 2015, about 20 vessels are in order which represents about 8% of the current world oil tanker / asphalt carrier fleet, including newbuilding vessels. These vessels are expected to be delivered during 2015 and 2016. In case the number of new entries is higher than the number of vessels which will be scrapped during the same period, while demand for new vessels is not increased, an oversupply may have a negative effect on the freight rates. An oversupply of dry bulk vessel capacity may lead to further reductions in charter rates, and disproportionately affect older vessels, which could materially adversely affect our profitability. The market supply of dry bulk vessels has been increasing, and the carrying capacity (measured in dwt) on order is at a historically high level. As of March 2015, approximately 157 million dwt of dry bulk vessels are on order, representing approximately 20% of the existing fleet (in terms of dwt capacity). This may lead to an oversupply of dry bulk vessel capacity, resulting in a reduction of charter rates and a decrease in the value of our dry bulk vessels. Even in the case of high order cancellations and high delayed deliveries, new deliveries are expected to be higher than usual and it is unclear whether this increase of supply will be absorbed by the increase of demand. Significant fleet expansion would cap rate levels over the next couple of years. The reduction in rates may affect the ability of our customers who charter our dry bulk vessels to make charter hire payments to us. This and other factors affecting the supply and demand for dry bulk vessels are outside our control and the nature, timing and degree of changes in the industry may affect the ability of our charterers to make charter hire payments to us. During periods when the shipping industry is experiencing excess capacity, falling demand and/or declining rates, older vessels are generally adversely affected in a disproportionate manner because newer vessels are generally preferred by customers. As the severity and length of such periods increase, more old vessels tend to get scrapped because the costs for keeping an older vessel in the fleet may exceed the benefits. However, we may be unable to scrap some of our older vessels if, for example, such vessels have loan obligations that exceed their scrap values. In such a case, we may be restricted from taking the most economically prudent course of action, which may negatively affect our results of operations. See also “-The risks and costs associated with vessels increase along with the vessels age.” Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in certain regions of the world, such as the South China Sea Indonesia and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. It has been observed that piracy incidents have reduced dramatically in West Africa and Indonesia during the period from 2013 to February 2015, where pirates and other criminals are often violent. In West Africa, pirates have attacked, hijacked and robbed vessels as well as kidnapped crews along the coast, rivers, anchorages, ports and surrounding waters. During 2013, there have been 42 reported incidents in the Indian Ocean region, 37 reported incidents in the West Africa region and 97 reported incidents in Indonesia region. During 2014, there have been 18 reported incidents in the Indian Ocean region (57% reduced from 2013), 32 reported incidents in the West Africa region (13.5% reduced from 2013) and 63 reported incidents in Indonesia region (35% reduced from 2013). From January 1, 2015 until to date there have been 7 reported incidents in West Africa region and 18 reported incidents in Indonesia region. A recent and significant example of the heightened level of piracy came on December 30, 2014, at Posn 15 07 N, 042 01 E a Merchant Vessel not affiliated with us, reported being suspiciously approached by two skiffs. Closest distance 1.5 cables. One brown skiff 10 m long with 6 POB, weapons and ladder sighted. On February 5, 2015: 0320 LT and at Posn: Berth 5&6, ENL Jetty, Lagos Harbours, Nigeria, duty AB onboard a berthed chemical tanker spotted a robber attempting to board the vessel. He alerted the onboard security team who chased the robbers away. After a while the robbers attempted to return and the security team fired one warning shot resulting in the robbers aborting the approach. Additionally, on February 25, 2015: 0430 LT and at Posn: 01:08N - 103:28E, at about 3nm East of Pulau Karimun Kecil, Indonesia three robbers boarded a bulk carrier underway. Alarm raised and crew mustered. Seeing the crew alertness, the robbers escaped empty handed. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized as “war risk” zones by insurers, as the Gulf of Aden and West Africa, or Joint War Committee (JWC) “war and strikes” listed areas, premiums payable for insurance coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. 18 Table Of Contents In addition, crew costs, including costs due to employing onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. In addition, when the vessel is seized by pirates at Indian Ocean, the charterer may withhold charter payments until the vessel is released. A charterer may also claim that a vessel seized by pirates was not “on-hire” for a certain number of days and it is therefore entitled to cancel the charter party, a claim that we would dispute. Despite the fact that our vessels are covered against such risks, we may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, any detention and/or hijacking of our vessels as a result of an act of piracy, or an increase in cost or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to reinstate the payment of dividends. Increases in fuel, or bunker prices, may adversely affect profits. Fuel is a significant factor in negotiating charter rates as well as performing the charters. As a result, an increase in the price of fuel beyond our expectations may adversely affect our profitability at the time of charter negotiation or when our vessels trade in the spot market. Fuel is also a significant, if not our largest, expense in our shipping operations when vessels are under voyage charter. Increases in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability and may also affect our charterer’s profitability if vessels are employed on time charter. As a result, it may be difficult for us to realize on our receivables and/or our charterers may be unable to fulfill their obligations under their charters. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Further, fuel may become much more expensive in the future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental and safety laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business and consequently our results of operations. The shipping business and vessel operations are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws, and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. Many of these requirements are designed to reduce the risk of oil spills, air emissions or other pollution. Because such conventions, laws and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with such conventions, laws and regulations, or the impact thereof on the fair market price or useful life of our vessels. Compliance with these laws and regulations, as well as with standards imposed by maritime self-regulatory organizations and customer requirements or competition, may require us to make capital and other expenditures; affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels; require reductions in cargo capacity, ship modifications or other operational changes or restrictions; lead to reduced availability of insurance coverage or increased policy costs; or result in denial of access to certain jurisdictional ports or waters, or detention in certain ports. In order to satisfy any such requirements, we may be required to take our vessels out of service for extended periods of time, with corresponding losses of revenues. In the future, market conditions may not justify these expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably, particularly older vessels, during the remainder of their economic lives. This could lead to significant asset write-downs. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or suspension or termination of our operations. We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our operations. A decision by an agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed permit, license or certificate, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing one, could materially adversely affect our operations. Government regulation of vessels, particularly environmental and safety requirements, may become stricter in the future and require us to incur significant capital expenditure on our vessels to keep them in compliance, or even to scrap or sell certain vessels altogether. Additional legislation or amendments to existing legislation is expected in areas such as ship recycling, garbage management, energy efficiency, sewage systems, air emission control (including emission of greenhouse gases) and ballast treatment and handling. For example, amendments to revise the regulations of the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, or MARPOL, regarding the prevention of air pollution from ships were approved and formally adopted by the Marine Environment Protection Committee, or MEPC, in October 2008. The amendments establish a series of progressive standards limiting the sulfur content in fuel oil and new tiers of nitrogen oxide emission standards for new marine diesel engines. The amendments came into effect in July 2010 and we incurred significant costs for compliance. The amendments implement a phased reduction of the sulfur content of fuel and allows for stricter sulfur limits in designated emission control areas (“ECAs”). Thus far, ECAs have been formally adopted for the Baltic Sea and the North Sea including the English Channel and the Turkish inland waters (when berthed at Turkish Ports). Waters off of the North American coast were established as an ECA on August 1, 2012, and the United States Caribbean Sea ECA came into force on January 1, 2013, with an effective date of January 1, 2014. These ECAs will limit sulfur oxide (SOx), nitrogen oxide (NOx) and particulate matter emissions. 19 Table Of Contents In addition, various jurisdictions and regulatory organizations, including the International Maritime Organization, or the IMO, the U.S. and states within the U.S., have proposed or implemented requirements relating to the management of ballast water to prevent the introduction of foreign invasive species having adverse ecological impacts. Significant expenditures for the installation of new equipment or new systems on board our vessels and changes in operating procedure may be necessary to comply with future regulations regarding ballast water management. Such future regulations may also result in increased port disposal costs. Additionally, as a result of marine accidents in recent years, safety regulation of the shipping industry is likely to continue to become more stringent and more expensive for us and our competitors. The IMO and the European Union have both accelerated their existing phase-out schedules for vessels without double hulls in response to highly publicized oil spills and shipping accidents involving companies unrelated to us. Legislation is also being discussed that would subject vessels to centralized routing. Future incidents may result in the adoption of even more stringent laws and regulations, which could limit our operations or our ability to do business, require capital expenditures or otherwise increase our cost of doing business, which may adversely affect our operations, as well as the shipping industry generally. We could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations and natural resource damages, in the event there is a release of oil or other hazardous substances from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our operations. For all vessels, including those operated under our fleet, at present, international liability for bunker oil pollution is governed by the International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage, or the Bunker Convention. In 2001, the IMO adopted the Bunker Convention, which imposes strict liability on ship owners for pollution damage in jurisdictional waters of ratifying states caused by discharges of “bunker oil.” The Bunker Convention defines “bunker oil” as “any hydrocarbon mineral oil, including lubricating oil, used or intended to be used for the operation or propulsion of the ship, and any residues of such oil.” The Bunker Convention also requires registered owners of ships over a certain size to maintain insurance for pollution damage in an amount equal to the limits of liability under the applicable national or international limitation regime (but not exceeding the amount calculated in accordance with the Convention on Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims of 1976, as amended, or the 1976 Convention). The Bunker Convention came into effect on November 21, 2008, and as of July 31, 2013 was in effect in 72 countries. In other jurisdictions, liability for spills or releases of oil from ships’ bunkers continues to be determined by the national or other domestic laws in the jurisdiction where the events or damages occur. With respect to oil pollution liability, generally, many countries have ratified and follow the liability plan adopted by the IMO and set out in the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, as amended in 2000, or the CLC. Under this convention, and depending on whether the country in which the damage results is a party to the CLC, a registered owner of a tanker that is carrying a cargo of “persistent oil” as defined by the CLC is strictly liable for pollution damage caused in the territorial waters of a contracting state by discharge of persistent oil, subject to certain complete defenses and liability limits. This liability is subject to a financial limit calculated by reference to the tonnage of the ship. The right to limit liability may be lost if the spill is caused by the owner’s intentional or reckless conduct. Vessels trading to states that are parties to these conventions must provide evidence of insurance covering the liability of the owner. When a tanker is carrying clean oil products that do not constitute “persistent oil” for the purposes of CLC, liability for any pollution damage will generally fall outside the CLC and will depend on national or other domestic laws in the jurisdiction where the spillage occurs. The United States is not a party to the CLC. In jurisdictions where the CLC has not been adopted, various legislative schemes or common law govern, and liability is imposed either on the basis of fault or in a manner similar to that of the CLC. The most widely applicable international regime limiting maritime pollution liability is the 1976 Convention referred to above. Rights to limit liability under the 1976 Convention are forfeited when a spill is caused by a shipowner’s intentional or reckless conduct. Certain states have ratified the IMO’s 1996 Protocol, or the 1996 LLMC Protocol, to the 1976 Convention. The 1996 LLMC Protocol provides for substantially higher the liability limits to apply in those jurisdictions than the limits set forth in the 1976 Convention. Finally, some jurisdictions are not a party to either the 1976 Convention or the 1996 LLMC Protocol, and, therefore, a shipowner’s rights to limit liability for maritime pollution in such jurisdictions may be uncertain. 20 Table Of Contents Environmental legislation in the United States merits particular mention as it is in many respects more onerous than international laws, representing a high-water mark of regulation with which ship owners and operators must comply, and of liability likely to be incurred in the event of non-compliance or an incident causing pollution. U.S. federal legislation, including notably the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or the OPA, establishes an extensive regulatory and liability regime for the protection and cleanup of the environment from oil spills, including bunker oil spills from dry bulk vessels as well as cargo or bunker oil spills from tankers. The OPA affects all shipowners and operators whose vessels trade in the United States, its territories and possessions, or whose vessels operate in U.S. waters, which includes the United States’ territorial sea and its 200-nautical-mile exclusive economic zone. Under the OPA, vessel owners, operators and bareboat charterers are “responsible parties” and are jointly, severally and strictly liable (unless the spill results solely from the act or omission of a third party, an act of God or an act of war) for all containment and clean-up costs and other damages arising from discharges or substantial threats of discharges of oil from their vessels. In response to the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil incident in the Gulf of Mexico, the U.S. House of Representatives passed, and the U.S. Senate considered but did not pass a bill to strengthen certain requirements of the OPA; similar legislation may be introduced in future sessions of the Congress. In addition to potential liability under the OPA, vessel owners may in some instances incur liability on an even more stringent basis under state law in the particular state where the spillage occurred. In some areas of regulation of ship-source pollution, the EU has introduced new laws without attempting to procure a corresponding amendment of international law. Notably, in 2005, it adopted a directive, as amended in 2009, on ship-source pollution, imposing criminal sanctions for pollution not only where this is caused by intent or recklessness (which would be an offence under the MARPOL), but also where it is caused by “serious negligence”. The concept of “serious negligence” may be interpreted in practice to be little more than ordinary negligence. The directive could therefore result in criminal liability being incurred in circumstances where it would not be incurred under international law. Criminal liability for a pollution incident could not only result in us incurring substantial penalties or fines, but may also, in some jurisdictions, facilitate civil liability claims for greater compensation than would otherwise have been payable. We currently maintain, for each of our owned vessels, insurance coverage against pollution liability risks in the amount of $1.0 billion per incident. The insured risks include penalties and fines as well as civil liabilities and expenses resulting from accidental pollution. However, this insurance coverage is subject to exclusions, deductibles and other terms and conditions. If any liabilities or expenses fall within an exclusion from coverage, or if damages from a catastrophic incident exceed the $1.0 billion limitation of coverage per incident, our cash flow, profitability and financial position could be adversely impacted. Climate change and government laws and regulations related to climate change could negatively impact our financial condition. In addition to other climate-related risks set forth in this “Risk Factors” section, we are and will be, directly and indirectly, subject to the effects of climate change and may, directly or indirectly, be affected by government laws and regulations related to climate change. A number of countries have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, such as carbon dioxide and methane. In the United States, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“U.S. EPA”) has declared greenhouse gases to be dangerous pollutants and has issued greenhouse gas reporting requirements for emissions sources in certain industries (which do not include the shipping industry). The U.S. EPA is also considering petitions to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from marine vessels. In addition, while the emissions of greenhouse gases from international shipping are not subject to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (“UNFCCC”), which requires adopting countries to implement national programs to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the IMO intends to develop limits on greenhouse gases from international shipping. It has responded to the global focus on climate change and greenhouse gas emissions by developing specific technical and operational efficiency measures and a work plan for market-based mechanisms in 2011. These include the mandatory measures of the ship energy efficiency management plan (“SEEMP”), outlined below, and an energy efficiency design index (“EEDI”) for new ships. The IMO is also considering its position on market-based measures through an expert working group, which was expected to report back to its Marine Environment Protection Committee (“MEPC”) in late 2012. Among the numerous proposals being considered by the working group are the following: a port state levy based on the amount of fuel consumed by the vessel on its voyage to the port in question; a global emissions trading scheme which would allocate emissions allowances and set an emissions cap; and an international fund establishing a global emissions reduction target for international shipping, to be set either by the UNFCCC or the IMO. At its 64th session in October 2012, the MEPC indicated that 2015 was the target year for Member States to identify market-based measures for international shipping. In December 2011, UN climate change talks took place in Durban and concluded with an agreement referred to as the Durban Platform for Enhanced Action. The Durban Conference did not result in any proposals specifically addressing the shipping industry’s role in climate change but the progress that has been made by the IMO in this area was widely acknowledged throughout the negotiating bodies of the UNFCCC process. 21 Table Of Contents The European Union announced in April 2007 that it planned to expand the European Union emissions trading scheme by adding vessels, and a proposal from the European Commission was expected if no global regime for reduction of seaborne emissions had been agreed to by the end of 2011. That deadline has now expired and it remains to be seen what position the European Union will take in this regard in the future. As of January 31, 2013 the European Commission has stopped short of proposing that emissions from ships be included in the European Union’s emissions-trading scheme (ETS). However, on October 1, 2012 the European Commission announced that it would propose measures to monitor, verify and report on greenhouse-gas emissions from the shipping sector in early 2013. This may be seen as indicative of an intention to maintain pressure on the international negotiating process. We cannot predict with any degree of certainty what effect, if any, possible climate change and government laws and regulations related to climate change will have on our operations, whether directly or indirectly. However, we believe that climate change, including the possible increase in severe weather events resulting from climate change, and government laws and regulations related to climate change may affect, directly or indirectly, (i) the cost of the vessels we may acquire in the future, (ii) our ability to continue to operate as we have in the past, (iii) the cost of operating our vessels, and (iv) insurance premiums, deductibles and the availability of coverage. As a result, our financial condition could be negatively impacted by significant climate change and related governmental regulation, and that impact could be material. We are subject to international safety regulations and the failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to increased liability, may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the IMO International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or ISM Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive “Safety Management System” that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The IMO is also introducing the first ever mandatory measures for an international greenhouse gas reduction regime for a global industry sector. The measures came into effect on January 1, 2013 and apply to all ships of 400 gross tonnage and above. These measures set a ship energy efficiency management plan (“SEEMP”) which is akin to a safety management plan, which the industry will have to comply with. On August 20, 2013, MLC (Marine Labour Convention), (the “Convention”) entered into force stating that all the countries that were ratified under the convention and as a result all the vessels with the respective country flag must be certified through August 20, 2013. The Convention is comprehensive and sets out, in one place, seafarers' rights to decent working conditions. It covers almost every aspect of their work and life on board. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code or IMO measures may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. For example, the United States Coast Guard and European Union authorities have indicated that vessels not in compliance with the ISM Code will be prohibited from trading in ports in the United States and European Union. As of the date of this report, each of our vessels is ISM code-certified. However, there can be no assurance that such certification will be maintained indefinitely. On July 1, 2014, the November 2012 SOLAS amendments entered into force. Specifically, new SOLAS regulation II-1/3-12 to require new ships to be constructed to reduce on-board noise and to protect personnel from noise, in accordance with the revised Code on noise levels on board ships, also adopted, which sets out mandatory maximum noise level limits for machinery spaces, control rooms, workshops, accommodation and other spaces on board ships. Amendments to SOLAS regulation III/17-1 to require ships to have plans and procedures to recover persons from the water, as well as related Guidelines for development of plans and procedures for recovery of persons from the water. Also, a related MSC resolution on Implementation of SOLAS regulation III/17-1 to ships to which SOLAS chapter III does not apply; amendments to SOLAS regulation II-2/10 on fire fighting to require a minimum of duplicate two-way portable radiotelephone apparatus for each fire party for fire fighters’ communication to be carried; amendments to regulation II-2/15 on instructions, on-board training and drills, to require an on-board means of recharging breathing apparatus cylinders used during drills, or a suitable number of spare cylinders; and amendments to regulation II-2/20 on protection of vehicle, special category and ro-ro spaces related to fixed fire-extinguishing systems; and amendments to the appendix to the annex to the SOLAS Convention replacing all forms of certificates and records of equipment, including its 1988 Protocol, and amendments to the forms of the Cargo Ship Safety Construction Certificate and Cargo Ship Safety Equipment Certificate of its 1978 Protocol. CSC Amendments were active since July 1, 2014. Specifically, amendments to the International Convention for Safe Containers (CSC), 1972, to incorporate amendments to the CSC Convention adopted in 1993 by resolution A.737(18), including amendments relating to the safety approval plate and to the approval of existing and new containers. The 0.10% fuel oil sulphur limit in ECAs was active since January 1, 2015. The limit for fuel oil sulphur levels falls to 0.10% m/m in emission control areas established to limit SOx and particulate matter emissions. The ECAs concerned are: Baltic Sea area; North Sea area; North American area; United States Caribbean Sea area. 22 Table Of Contents Regulations that we must comply with are the following: April 14, 2015 Nairobi Wreck Removal Convention and the Nairobi International Convention on the Removal Wrecks; September 1, 2015, amendments to MARPOL Annex VI, regulation 13 (NOx);Amendments concerning the date for the implementation of “Tier III” standards within emission control areas (ECAs). The amendments provide for the Tier III NOx standards to be applied to a marine diesel engine that is installed on a ship constructed on or after January 1, 2016 and which operates in the North American Emission Control Area or the U.S. Caribbean Sea Emission Control Area that are designated for the control of NOx emissions. In addition, the Tier III requirements would apply to installed marine diesel engines when operated in other emission control areas which might be designated in the future for Tier III NOx control. The Tier III requirements do not apply to a marine diesel engine installed on a ship constructed prior to January 1, 2021 of less than 500 gross tonnage, of 24 m or over in length, which has been specifically designed and is used solely, for recreational purposes. In addition, other regulations that we must comply with are the following: January 1, 2016, amendments to SOLAS regulation II-1/29 on steering gear, to update the requirements relating to sea trials; amendments to SOLAS regulations II-2/4, II-2/3, II-2/9.7 and II-2/16.3.3, to introduce mandatory requirements for inert gas systems on board new oil and chemical tankers of 8,000 dwt and above, and for ventilation systems on board new ships; amendments to the International Code for Fire Safety Systems (FSS Code) on inert gas systems; amendments to SOLAS regulation II-2/10, concerning fire protection requirements for new ships designed to carry containers on or above the weather deck will be applied; amendments to SOLAS regulation II-2/13.4, mandating additional means of escape from machinery spaces; new SOLAS regulation II-2/20-1 requirement for vehicle carriers carrying motor vehicles with compressed hydrogen or natural gas for their own propulsion, which sets additional requirements for ships with vehicle and ro-ro spaces intended for the carriage of motor vehicles with compressed hydrogen or compressed natural gas in their tanks as fuel; amendment 37-14 to the International Maritime Dangerous Goods (IMDG) Code and amendments to the International Life-Saving Appliance (LSA) Code related to the testing of lifejackets; amendments to MARPOL Annex I, the Code for the Construction and Equipment of Ships carrying. Dangerous Chemicals in Bulk (BCH Code) and the International Code for the Construction and Equipment of Ships Carrying Dangerous Chemicals in Bulk (IBC Code), on mandatory carriage requirements for a stability instrument for oil tankers and chemical tankers. Our vessels and/or the cargoes carried on board our vessels may suffer damage due to the inherent operational risks of the seaborne transportation industry and we may experience unexpected dry-docking costs, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our vessels and their cargoes will be at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather, business interruptions caused by mechanical failures, grounding, fire, explosions and collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. These hazards may result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, delay or rerouting. Any resulting legal proceedings may be complex, lengthy and costly and, if decided against us, any of these proceedings or other proceedings involving similar claims or claims for substantial damages may harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial position. In addition, the legal systems and law enforcement mechanisms in certain countries in which we operate may expose us to risk and uncertainty. Further, we may be required to devote substantial time and cost defending these proceedings, which could divert the attention of management from our business. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a dry-docking facility. The costs of dry-dock repairs are unpredictable and may be substantial. We may have to pay dry-docking costs that our insurance does not cover in full. The loss of revenue while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. In addition, space at dry-docking facilities is sometimes limited and not all dry-docking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable dry-docking facility or our vessels may be forced to travel to a dry-docking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels’ positions. The loss of revenue while these vessels are forced to wait for space or to steam to more distant dry-docking facilities would decrease our earnings. For example, on October 8, 2010, the Grand Rodosi, one of our bulk carriers, which has since been redelivered to Lemissoler, was involved in a collision with a docked fishing vessel at Port Lincoln, Australia. While no personal injuries or environmental damages were incurred, the collision resulted in physical damage to the two vessels. The damage was fully covered by our insurance. The total loss or damage of any of our vessels or cargoes could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. If we are unable to adequately maintain or safeguard our vessels, we may be unable to prevent any such damage, costs, or loss that could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to reinstate the payment of dividends. 23 Table Of Contents Our insurance may not be adequate to cover our losses that may result from our operations, which are subject to the inherent operational risks of the seaborne transportation industry. We carry insurance to protect us against most of the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of our business, including marine hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes pollution risks, crew insurance and war risk insurance. However, we may not be adequately insured to cover losses from all of our operational risks, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Even if our insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to obtain a timely replacement, which may result in the loss of revenue. Additionally, our insurers may refuse to pay particular claims and our insurance may be voidable by the insurers if we take, or fail to take, certain action, such as failing to maintain certification of our vessels with applicable maritime regulatory organizations. Any significant uninsured or under-insured loss or liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates in the future during adverse insurance market conditions. As a result of the September 11, 2001 attacks, the U.S. response to the attacks and the related concerns regarding terrorism, insurers have increased premiums and reduced or restricted coverage for losses caused by terrorist acts generally. Accordingly, premiums payable for terrorist coverage have increased substantially and the level of terrorist coverage has been significantly reduced. In addition, while we carry loss of hire insurance to cover 100% of our fleet, we may not be able to maintain this level of coverage. Accordingly, any loss of a vessel or extended vessel off-hire, due to an accident or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends, if reinstated to our shareholders in the future. Because we obtain some of our insurance through protection and indemnity associations, we may also be subject to calls in amounts based not only on our own claim records, but also on the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations. We may be subject to calls in amounts based not only on our claim records but also on the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive insurance coverage for tort liability, including pollution-related liability. Our payment of these calls could result in significant expense to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. As of the date of the report, we did not have any recent calls. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel that is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. The risks and costs associated with vessels increase as the vessels age. The costs to operate and maintain a vessel in operation increase with the age of the vessel. The average age of our dry bulk fleet is 9.2 years and the average age of our oil tanker/asphalt carriers fleet is 6.2 years. Most dry bulk and tanker vessels have an expected life ranging between 25 to 30 years, subject to market conditions and employment status of the vessels. In some instances, charterers prefer newer vessels that are more fuel efficient than older vessels. Cargo insurance rates also increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers as well. In addition, older vessels could have loan obligations in excess of their scrap value. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of the vessels may require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which these vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. If we sell vessels, we may have to sell them at a loss, and if charterers no longer charter-out vessels due to their age, our earnings could be materially adversely affected. A failure to pass inspection by classification societies could result in one or more vessels being unemployable unless and until they pass inspection, resulting in a loss of revenues from such vessels for that period and a corresponding decrease in operating cash flows. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and with International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, or SOLAS. Our fleet is currently enrolled with Bureau Veritas and Registro Italiano Navale (“RINA”). 24 Table Of Contents A vessel must undergo an annual survey, an intermediate survey and a special survey. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel’s machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Our vessels are on special survey cycles for hull inspection and continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection. Every vessel may be also required to be dry-docked every two to three years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. If any vessel fails any annual survey, intermediate survey or special survey, the vessel may be unable to trade between ports and, therefore, would be unemployable, potentially causing a negative impact on our revenues due to the loss of revenues from such vessel until she is able to trade again. Labor interruptions could disrupt our business. Our vessels are manned by masters, officers and crews that are employed by third parties. If not resolved in a timely and cost-effective manner, industrial action or other labor unrest could prevent or hinder our operations from being carried out as we expect and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends, if reinstated in the future. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels through foreclosure proceedings, which would interrupt our business. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting or attaching a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our business or require us to pay large sums of money to have the arrest lifted, which would have a negative effect on our cash flows. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. As a result, claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another vessel in our fleet. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency without adequate compensation. A government could requisition or seize our vessels. Under requisition for title, a government takes control of a vessel and becomes its owner. Under requisition for hire, a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes its charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate our vessels worldwide and, as a result, our vessels are exposed to international risks that could reduce revenue or increase expenses. The international shipping industry is an inherently risky business involving global operations. Our vessels are at risk of damage or loss because of events such as mechanical failure, collision, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, cargo loss, natural disasters and bad weather. In addition, changing economic, regulatory and political conditions in some countries, including political and military conflicts, have from time to time resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways, piracy, terrorism, labor strikes and boycotts. These sorts of events could interfere with shipping routes and result in market disruptions that may reduce our revenue or increase our expenses. 25 Table Of Contents Terrorist attacks, international hostilities and political instability can affect the seaborne transportation industry, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We conduct our operations worldwide, and our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected by changing economic, political and government conditions in the countries and regions where our vessels are employed or registered. Moreover, we operate in a sector of the economy that is likely to be adversely impacted by the effects of political instability, terrorist or other attacks, war or international hostilities. Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, in London on July 7, 2005 and in Mumbai on November 26, 2008 and the continuing response of the United States and others to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, continue to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The continuing presence of the United States and other armed forces in Iraq and Afghanistan may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. In addition, continuing conflicts and recent developments in North Africa and the Middle East and future hostilities or other political instability in regions where our vessels trade could affect our trade patterns and adversely affect our operations by causing delays in shipping on certain routes or making shipping impossible on such routes, thereby causing a decrease in revenues. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenues and costs. Terrorist attacks on vessels, such as the September 1, 2013 attack on M/V Cosco Asia, a container carrier not related to us, may in the future also negatively affect our operations and financial condition and directly impact our vessels or our customers. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility and turmoil in the financial markets in the United States and globally. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and costs. We are subject to vessel security regulations and will incur costs to comply with recently adopted regulations and may be subject to costs to comply with similar regulations which may be adopted in the future in response to terrorism. Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, there have been a variety of initiatives intended to enhance vessel security. On November 25, 2002, the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002, or MTSA, came into effect. To implement certain portions of the MTSA, in July 2003, the U.S. Coast Guard issued regulations requiring the implementation of certain security requirements aboard vessels operating in waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. Similarly, in December 2002, amendments to SOLAS created a new chapter of the convention dealing specifically with maritime security. The new chapter went into effect in July 2004, and imposes various detailed security obligations on vessels and port authorities, most of which are contained in the newly created ISPS Code. Among the various requirements are: • on-board installation of automatic information systems, or AIS, to enhance vessel-to-vessel and vessel-to-shore communications; • on-board installation of ship security alert systems; • the development of vessel security plans; and • compliance with flag state security certification requirements. 26 Table Of Contents Furthermore, additional security measures could be required in the future which could have a significant financial impact on us. The U.S. Coast Guard regulations, intended to be aligned with international maritime security standards, exempt non-U.S. vessels from MTSA vessel security measures, provided such vessels had on board, by July 1, 2004, a valid International Ship Security Certificate, or ISSC, that attests to the vessel’s compliance with SOLAS security requirements and the ISPS Code. We have implemented and will continue implement the various security measures addressed by the MTSA, SOLAS and the ISPS Code and take measures for the vessels to attain compliance with all applicable security requirements within the prescribed time periods. Although management does not believe these additional requirements will have a material financial impact on our operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be an interruption in operations to bring vessels into compliance with the applicable requirements and any such interruption could cause a decrease in charter revenues. The cost of vessel security measures has also been affected by the dramatic escalation in recent years in the frequency and seriousness of acts of piracy against ships, notably off the coast of Somalia, including the Gulf of Aden and Arabian Sea area, which could have a significant financial impact on us. Attacks of this kind have commonly resulted in vessels and their crews being detained for several months, and being released only on payment of large ransoms. Substantial loss of revenue and other costs may be incurred as a result of such detention. We insure against these losses to the extent practicable, but the risk remains that uninsured losses could significantly affect our business. Costs are incurred in taking additional security measures in accordance with Best Management Practices to Deter Piracy. A number of flag states have signed the 2009 New York Declaration, which expresses commitment to Best Management Practices in relation to piracy and calls for compliance with them as an essential part of compliance with the ISPS Code. Economic sanctions and other international trade restrictions imposed by the United States, the European Union, and other jurisdictions could increase the legal compliance risks and costs associated with our international activities. Economic sanctions and/or other trade restrictions imposed by the United States or other governments or organizations, including the United Nations, the European Union (“EU”) and its member states, could increase the legal costs of, and risks associated with, our international operations. Our compliance with the prohibitions of economic sanctions and foregoing business with countries subject to sanctions could also lead to loss of revenue. Under economic sanctions and related trade laws, governments may impose requirements and restrictions that necessitate modifications to business activities and practices and modifications to compliance programs, which may increase compliance costs. These government-imposed requirements and restrictions may also increase the risk of violations of law, and, in the event of a violation of such laws, may subject us to fines and other penalties. Engaging in sanctions-triggering activity, such as that outlined under the Iran Sanctions Act (“ISA”) of 1996 and the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability and Divestment Act of 2010 (“CISADA”), could also result in the imposition of sanctions against us. Recently, the scope of sanctions imposed against Iran and persons engaging in certain activities or doing certain business with or involving Iran has been expanded by a number of jurisdictions, including the United States, the EU, and Canada. The EU has strengthened sanctions against Iran by prohibiting a wider universe of transactions and activities involving Iran. The EU sanctions against Iran now prohibit the transportation of crude oil and petroleum as well as petrochemical products from Iran. CISADA, enacted by the United States, also strengthens existing U.S. sanctions against Iran, and, inter alia, provides for the imposition of sanctions against foreign (non-U.S.) entities that transport or otherwise supply refined petroleum products (“RPP”) to Iran. U.S. Executive Order 13590 (November 19, 2011) expands and adds to the universe of activity triggering sanctions under ISA and CISADA by expanding sanctions and presenting risks to non-US persons conducting certain business with Iran’s petroleum and petrochemical industry. In addition, on May 1, 2012, President Obama signed Executive Order 13608 which prohibits foreign persons from violating or attempting to violate, or causing a violation of any sanctions in effect against Iran or facilitating any deceptive transactions for or on behalf of any person subject to U.S. sanctions. Any persons found to be in violation of Executive Order 13608 will be deemed a foreign sanctions evader and will be banned from all contacts with the United States, including conducting business in U.S. dollars. Also in August 2012, President Obama signed into law the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (“ITRSHRA”), or the Iran Threat Reduction Act, which created new sanctions and strengthened existing sanctions. Among other things, the ITRSHRA intensifies existing sanctions regarding the provision of goods, services, infrastructure or technology to Iran’s petroleum or petrochemical sector and potentially exposes U.S. companies to liability for the actions of their non-U.S. subsidiaries. The ITRSHRA also includes a provision requiring the President of the United States to impose five or more sanctions from Section 6(a) of the Iran Sanctions Act, as amended, on a person the President determines is a controlling beneficial owner of, or otherwise owns, operates or controls or insures a vessel that was used to transport crude oil from Iran to another country and (1) if the person is a controlling beneficial owner of the vessel, the person had actual knowledge the vessel was so used or (2) if the person otherwise owns, operates, or controls, or insures the vessel, the person knew or should have known the vessel was so used. Such a person could be subject to a variety of sanctions, including exclusion from U.S. capital markets, exclusion from financial transactions subject to U.S. jurisdiction, and exclusion of that person’s vessels from U.S. ports for up to two years. 27 Table Of Contents In January 2014, the “P5+1” countries (the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Russia and China) agreed on a Joint Plan of Action (JPOA) with Iran in an effort to stop the advance of Iran’s nuclear program and roll back certain aspects of the program. Under this program, the United States has for a period commencing January 20, 2014 and ending on June 30, 2015 (JPOA Relief Period) suspended certain sanctions against Iran (including the export from Iran of petrochemical products and crude oil). The relief afforded under the suspension is limited, temporary and reversible. Despite the suspension, and subject to a very small number of exceptions, all other U.S. sanctions concerning Iran remain in effect. U.S. persons and U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entities remain generally prohibited from entering into transactions with Iran unless specifically authorized by the U.S. Government, including transactions permitted by the JPOA. We are monitoring developments in the United States, the EU and other jurisdictions that maintain sanctions programs, including developments in implementation and enforcement of such sanctions programs. Expansion of sanctions programs, embargoes and other restrictions in the future (including additional designations of countries or entities subject to sanctions), or modifications in how existing sanctions are interpreted or enforced, could prevent vessels from calling on ports in sanctioned countries or could limit their cargoes and could also expose us to sanctions based on the activities of the vessels while the vessels are chartered out to third parties, even though we do not control such third parties. We constantly keep abreast of legal developments in the economic sanctions and trade restrictions area, and we adjust our compliance programs and internal policies accordingly. We believe that we are and have been in compliance with all applicable laws, including all laws impacting the trade of our vessels with Iran and other countries identified by the United States as state sponsors of terrorism or as engaging in activities related to nuclear proliferation, and we intend to maintain such compliance. Our vessels are not authorized to engage in unlawful trade, or, save for vessels acquired while already on charter, any sanctions-triggering activity. Moreover, our vessels’ trade with the foregoing countries is infrequent, and the revenue we derive from such activity is de minimis. Additionally, our vessels are not chartered to entities that have been designated as sanctions targets by the United States or the European Union. The Company has not been involved in business to and from Cuba and Syria during the period of January 1 through December 31, 2014. In an affirmative step to guard against violations and to prevent our vessels from engaging in any sanctions-triggering trade, we now include provisions in all of our new charters designed to prevent our charter parties from violating applicable laws relating to existing sanctions and from engaging in sanctions-triggering activity. As it relates to Iran, the provisions in the charter parties/contracts for our vessels contain exclusions that prohibit the use of our vessels in unlawful and/or sanctions-triggering trade with Iran, or such trading is subject to requesting our prior consent, which is not to be unreasonably withheld. Therefore, should any vessel be instructed by her time charterers to call in Iran and our confirmation is required, we ask our charterers to provide clear evidence that neither the transportation, loading nor discharge of the cargo, nor the parties involved, will result in or be subject to any sanctions, respectively. Furthermore, we provide this information to the vessel’s Protection & Indemnity Association (“P&I Association”), a third party liability insurer, asking for legal and/or expert advice. During 2014 and up to February 2015, the Newlead Victoria, which is chartered on a long-term charter signed in 2012, was instructed by her time charterers, who are disponent owners, to call at a port in Iran twice. In all cases, based on the information provided by the charterers, we conducted the relevant due diligence in cooperation with the vessel’s War Risk Association in order to confirm that the loading, discharge and transportation of the cargo and the parties involved would not result in, or would not be subject to, any sanctions, respectively. Following this review and after the vessel was insured by the War Association, on October 27, 2014 the Newlead Victoria arrived at Iran’s Bandar Imam Khomeini (BIK) port to discharge a cargo of about 66,000 MT of wheat in bulk which was loaded from Kavkaz, and departed on November 16, 2014. Neither the loading, discharge nor transportation of the cargo, nor the parties involved, were subject to any sanctions while the revenue was $12,000 per day gross or $11,700 per day net for 20 days that the discharge operations took place. Furthermore, on January 25, 2015, this same vessel called Bandar Imam Khomeini (BIK) to discharge a cargo of about 62,100 MT of wheat which had been loaded at the port of Paranagua, Brazil and she departed on February 12, 2015. Neither the loading, discharge nor transportation of the cargo, nor the parties involved, were subject to any sanctions. The vessel’s revenues from this operation were $13,050 gross or $12,723.75 per day net for 18 days. During 2013 also, Newlead Markela was instructed by her time charterers to call Iran twice and Sudan once. In all cases, after the time charterers instructed the vessel to call Iran and Sudan, we asked them to provide us with all necessary information regarding the ports of call, cargo and parties involved, in order to conduct the relevant due diligence. Furthermore, we presented all relevant information to our War Risks Association (in the form of a standard questionnaire), who, after reviewing the facts, insured the vessel for the proposed voyages. Furthermore, In the future our charterers may instruct the vessel to call Iran, or another country which is subject to sanctions, however in any case subject to our prior due diligence and approval. 28 Table Of Contents Despite the fact that we avoid any sanctioned activity with Iran and all other countries which are subject to sanctions, there is nevertheless some risk that the charter parties may engage in activity that could (indirectly) cause us to violate applicable law, expose us to sanctions under ISA, CISADA, ITRSHRA and any similar laws, and, as a consequence, cause reputational and other damage that could have a material adverse impact on our business and operations. Any such violation could result in fines, penalties, or other sanctions that could severely impact our ability to access U.S. capital markets and conduct our business, and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not invest in us. Additionally, some investors may decide not to invest in our company simply because we do business with companies that do business in sanctioned countries. The determination by these investors not to invest in, or to divest from, our common shares may adversely affect the price at which our common shares trade. Moreover, our charterers may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us or our vessels, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. In addition, our reputation and the market for our securities may be adversely affected if we engage in certain other activities, such as entering into charters with individuals or entities in countries subject to U.S. sanctions and embargo laws that are not controlled by the governments of those countries, or engaging in operations associated with those countries pursuant to contracts with third parties that are unrelated to those countries or entities controlled by their governments. Investor perception of the value of our common stock may be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. Where trade exclusions with respect to Iran do not exist in our charter parties, we affirmatively notify charterers of our vessels that they themselves could face sanctions if they use our vessels in sanctions triggering trade with Iran. 29 Table Of Contents Risks Relating to Our Coal Business During 2012, we entered into a variety of transactions in order to develop a commodities sector of our business. We have entered into a joint venture arrangement and we have established a new entity with J Mining & Energy Group for the purchase and trading of coal. As of May 12, 2015, these coal operations have not yet developed. Pursuant to a series of agreements our current limited coal operations consist of a coal preparation plant located in Pike County, Kentucky, USA which was acquired in December 2013 In 2012 we entered into an agreement to acquire certain mine-related assets (including mineral rights, surface rights and mining permits) and the title of land ownership of the Five Mile mine including the Andy Terminal Railroad (the “Five Mile Assets”) in Breathitt County, Kentucky, USA. The payment of the $11 million purchase price was paid during 2013 and 2014 through December Settlement Agreement between NewLead Holdings Ltd. and Hanover. As of the date of this annual report, although the purchase price for the Five Mile Assets has been fully paid, the transfer of the Five Mile Assets has yet to occur. Further, according to the Kentucky State mining regulators, upon the successful transfer of the Five Mile Assets, it is a precondition to the transfer of the permits for the replacement of the reclamation bonds for the transfer of the Five Mile Assets. We are currently analyzing our next steps towards the completion of the acquisition of Five Mile Assets. As of December 31, 2014 and May 12, 2015, our coal business, consists of our coal preparation plant, which has entered into various coal processing agreements. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively manage those operations or expand those limited operations in the future. We may be not able to obtain the necessary financing to satisfy our payment obligations under existing agreements, and there is no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. In relation to the Five Mile mine, although the purchase price has been fully paid, there is still obligation under the purchase agreements that must be fulfilled. Specifically, the transfer of the Five Mile Assets has yet to occur. Further, according to the Kentucky State mining regulators, upon the successful transfer of the Five Mile Assets, it is a precondition to the transfer of the permits for the replacement of the reclamation bonds for the transfer of the Five Mile Assets. Our failure to fulfill our obligations under the obligations above may also impact our ability to negotiate future purchase agreements with third parties and to grow our business through acquisitions, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Coal prices are subject to change and a substantial or extended decline in prices, which are currently depressed, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. Our profitability depends upon the prices we receive for the coal we process and blend and the prices we pay for the coal we purchase. The contract prices for our processing and blending coal depend upon factors beyond our control, including the following: • the domestic and foreign supply and demand for coal; • the strength of global economy • the quantity and quality of coal available from coal producers; • competition for production of electricity from non-coal sources, including the price and availability of alternative fuels; • domestic and international air emission standards for coal-fueled power plants and the ability of coal-fueled power plants to meet these standards by installing scrubbers or other means; • adverse weather, climatic or other natural conditions, including natural disasters and unreasonable weather patterns; • domestic and foreign economic conditions, including economic slowdowns; 30 Table Of Contents • domestic and foreign legislative, regulatory and judicial developments, environmental regulatory changes or changes in energy policy and energy conservation measures that would adversely affect the coal industry, such as legislation limiting carbon emissions or providing for increased funding and incentives for alternative energy sources; • the proximity of our coal preparation resources to, the capacity of and the cost of transportation and port facilities; • technological developments, including those related to alternative energy sources and those intended to convert coal-to-liquids or gas: and • market price fluctuations for sulfur dioxide emission allowances. Coal prices are currently depressed based on a number of factors outside our control. If coal prices remain depressed, or if there is a substantial or extended decline in the prices we receive for our future coal processing contracts, it could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. Trends within the coal industry could put downward pressure on coal prices and, as a result, materially and adversely affect our future revenues and profitability. There are a number of coal producers in the United States for domestic sales. International demand for U.S. coal also affects the U.S. coal industry. The demand for U.S. coal exports depends upon a number of factors outside our control, including the overall demand for electricity in foreign markets, currency exchange rates, ocean freight rates, port and shipping capacity, the demand for foreign-priced steel, both in foreign markets and in the U.S. market, general economic conditions in foreign countries, technological developments and environmental and other governmental regulations. Foreign demand for U.S. coal has increased in recent periods. This decline has cause competition among coal producers for the sale of coal in the United States to intensify, resulting in significant downward pressure on domestic coal prices. In addition, during the mid-1970s and early 1980s, increased demand for coal attracted new investors to the coal industry, spurred the development of new mines and resulted in additional production capacity throughout the industry, all of which led to increased competition and lower coal prices. Historically, increases in coal prices over the past several years had encouraged the development of expanded capacity by coal producers. Any resulting overcapacity and increased production could materially reduce coal prices and therefore materially reduce our future revenues and profitability. Because the demand and pricing for coal is greatly influenced by consumption patterns of the electricity generation industry in U.S. and the worldwide steel industry, a reduction in the demand for coal by these industries would likely cause our revenues and profitability to decline significantly. Demand for our processed coal and the prices that we will be able to obtain primarily will depend upon coal consumption patterns of the electric utility industry and the worldwide steel industry. Consumption by the utility industry is affected by the demand for electricity, environmental and other governmental regulations, technological developments and the price of competing coal and alternative fuel supplies including nuclear, natural gas, oil and renewable energy sources, including hydroelectric power. Demand by the electricity industry is impacted by weather patterns, overall economic activity and the associated demand for power by industrial users. Demand by the steel industry is primarily affected by economic growth and the demand for steel used in construction as well as appliances and automobiles. Any downward pressure on coal prices could have a negative impact on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Electric utility deregulation is expected to provide incentives to generators of electricity to minimize their fuel costs and is believed to have caused electric generators to be more aggressive in negotiating prices with coal suppliers. To the extent utility deregulation causes our customers to be more cost-sensitive, deregulation may have a negative effect on our profitability. 31 Table Of Contents The mining business is capital intensive and we may not be able to successfully manage our future operations or have access to the capital required to develop coal operations and reach full productive capacity at our current mines and we may not be able to acquire any additional mines. Our mining operations are currently limited or non-existent. However, even any limited operations are capital intensive due to construction of new infrastructure and maintenance of existing operations. Specifically, the exploration, permitting and development of coal reserves, mining costs, the maintenance of machinery and equipment and compliance with applicable laws and regulations requires substantial capital expenditures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully manage our limited operations or that we will be able to generate sufficient production levels or generate sufficient cash flow to fund future mining operations. We do not currently have access to sufficient financing to fully fund our proposed production, exploration, permitting and development activities and we may be required to defer all or a portion of our future capital expenditures. Changes in the export and import markets for coal products could affect the demand for our processed coal, our pricing and our profitability. We compete in a worldwide market. The pricing and demand for our processed coal is affected by a number of factors beyond our control. These factors include: • currency exchange rates; • growth of economic development; • price of alternative sources of electricity or steel; • worldwide demand; and • ocean freight rates. Any decrease in the amount of coal exported from the United States, or any increase in the amount of coal imported into the United States, could have a material adverse impact on the demand for our processed coal, our pricing and our profitability. The availability and reliability of transportation facilities and fluctuations in transportation costs could affect the demand for our processed coal or impair our ability to supply processed coal to our customers. We depend upon truck and belt transportation systems to receive raw coal and to deliver processed coal to our customers. Disruptions in transportation services due to weather-related problems, mechanical difficulties, strikes, lockouts, bottlenecks, and other events could impair our ability to receive raw or deliver processed coal to our customers. Increases in transportation costs, including the price of gasoline and diesel fuel, could make coal a less competitive source of energy when compared to alternative fuels or could make coal produced in one region of the United States less competitive than coal produced in other regions of the United States or abroad. If we experience disruptions in the transportation services or if transportation costs increase significantly and our customers may be unable to find alternative transportation providers, our raw coal supply and processed coal delivery may be disrupted, and our profitability could decrease significantly. Our profitability in part depends upon the existence of coal processing agreements. We process and blend coal under coal processing agreements with terms greater than one year. We anticipate that such agreements may include terms that fix the prices of coal processed during the initial year with adjustment provisions for the prices for later years. As a result, at any given time the market prices may exceed the prices under these arrangements. If we enter into such arrangements, changes in the coal industry may cause some of our customers not to renew or extend such long-term agreements or enter into new long-term coal processing agreements with us or to enter into agreements to process fewer tons of coal than in the past or on different terms or prices. 32 Table Of Contents Unexpected decreases in availability of supplies, such as equipment or raw materials, or increases in the costs thereof, could significantly impair our operating results. Our operations are dependent on reliable supplies of various equipment. If the cost of these equipment or key supplies increases significantly, or if they should become unavailable due to higher industry-wide demand or less production by suppliers, there could be an adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. Coal processing is subject to inherent risks and our operations may be affected by conditions or events beyond our control, which could cause our quarterly or annual results to deteriorate. Our coal processing operations are subject to conditions or events beyond our control that could disrupt operations, affect production and the cost of processing for varying lengths of time and have a significant impact on our operating results. These conditions or events include: • amounts of rock and other natural materials intruding into the raw coal processed; • equipment failures and unexpected major repairs; • unexpected maintenance problems; • accidental water discharges or other environmental accidents; • fires and explosions from methane and other sources; • accidental mine water discharges or other environmental accidents; • other accidents or natural disasters; and • weather conditions. A shutdown of the preparation plant we acquired or prolonged disruption of intended services or transportation of our customers would result in a decrease in our revenues and profitability, which could be material. Our insurance does not cover every potential risk associated with our operations. Adequate coverage at reasonable rates is not always obtainable. In addition, our insurance may not fully cover our liability or the consequences of any business interruptions such as equipment failure or labor disputes. The occurrence of a significant event not fully covered by insurance could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. We face numerous uncertainties in estimating our future economically recoverable coal reserves and inaccuracies in our estimates could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs and decreased profitability. Forecasts of our future performance are based on, among other things, estimates of our future recoverable coal reserves, in relation to the Viking Acquisition Group and the Five Mile Assets. Reserve information is typically based upon on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by third parties. Reserve estimates as to both quantity and quality are generally updated from time to time to reflect production of coal from the reserves and new drilling or other data received. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of coal and costs to mine recoverable reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of economically recoverable coal reserves necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, any one of which may, if incorrect, result in an estimate that varies considerably from actual results. These factors and assumptions include: • geologic and mining conditions, which may not be fully identified by available exploration data; • future coal prices, operating costs and capital expenditures; • severance and excise taxes, royalties and development; • future mining technology improvements; • the effects of regulation by governmental agencies; 33 Table Of Contents • ability to obtain, maintain and renew all required permits; • employee health and safety; and • historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas. As a result, future actual coal tonnage recovered from identified reserve areas or properties and revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves may vary materially from estimates. These estimates thus may not accurately reflect our future actual reserves. Any material inaccuracy in our estimates related to our reserves could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs or decreased profitability which could materially adversely affect our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. The success of our future operations depends upon our ability to obtain necessary permits to mine all of our coal reserves. The permits are issued by various federal, state and local agencies and regulatory bodies. The permitting rules, and the interpretations of these rules, are complex, change frequently, and are often subject to discretionary interpretations by the regulators, all of which may make compliance more difficult or impractical, and may possibly preclude the continuance of ongoing mine development or operations or the development of future mining operations. The public, including non-governmental organizations, anti-mining groups and individuals, have certain statutory rights to comment upon and submit objections to requested permits and environmental impact statements prepared in connection with applicable regulatory processes, and otherwise engage in the permitting process, including bringing citizens’ claims to challenge the issuance or renewal of permits, the validity of environmental impact statements or performance of mining activities. Accordingly, required permits may not be issued in a timely fashion or renewed at all, or permits issued or renewed may not be maintained, may be challenged or may be conditioned in a manner that may restrict our ability to efficiently and economically conduct future mining activities, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, business and financial position. Our future operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain required surety bonds. Federal and state laws require obtaining surety bonds to secure performance or payment of certain long-term obligations, such as reclamation costs for lands used for mining, federal and state workers’ compensation costs and satisfaction of other miscellaneous obligations. Certain insurance companies, along with other participants in the coal industry, no longer provide surety bonds for workers’ compensation and other post-employment benefits without collateral. We may have difficulty procuring or maintaining our future surety bonds. Our potential bond issuers may demand higher fees, additional collateral, including letters of credit or other terms less favorable to us upon issuance or renewal of bonds. Because we are required by state and federal law to have these bonds in place before mining can commence or continue, our failure to maintain surety bonds, letters of credit or other guarantees or security arrangements would materially and adversely affect our ability to mine or lease coal. That failure could result from a variety of factors, including lack of availability, higher expense or unfavorable market terms, the exercise by third party surety bond issuers of their right to refuse to renew the surety and restrictions on availability of collateral for current and future third party surety bond issuers under the terms of our financing arrangements. Extensive environmental regulations, including existing and potential future regulatory requirements relating to air emissions, affect our customers and could reduce the demand for coal as a fuel source and cause coal prices and our coal services to materially decline. Coal contains impurities, including but not limited to sulfur, mercury, chlorine, carbon and other elements or compounds, many of which are released into the air when coal is burned. The operations of our customers are subject to extensive environmental regulation particularly with respect to air emissions. For example, the federal Clean Air Act and similar state and local laws extensively regulate the amount of sulfur dioxide, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, and other compounds emitted into the air from electric power plants. A series of more stringent requirements relating to particulate matter, ozone, haze, mercury, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and other air pollutants are expected to be proposed or become effective in coming years. In addition, concerted conservation efforts that result in reduced electricity consumption could cause coal prices and our coal services to materially decline. 34 Table Of Contents Considerable uncertainty is associated with these air emissions initiatives. The content of regulatory requirements in the United States is in the process of being developed, and many new regulatory initiatives remain subject to review by federal or state agencies or the courts. Stringent air emissions limitations are either in place or are likely to be imposed in the short to medium term, and these limitations will likely require significant emissions control expenditures for many coal-fueled power plants and other traditional users of coal. As a result, these power plants and other users of coal may switch to other fuels that generate fewer of these emissions or may install more effective pollution control equipment that reduces the need for low sulfur coal, possibly reducing future demand for coal and a reduced need to construct new coal-fueled power plants and other facilities that use coal. The EIA’s expectations for the coal industry assume there will be a significant number of as yet unplanned coal-fired plants built in the future which may not occur. Any switching of fuel sources away from coal, closure of existing coal-fired plants, or reduced construction of new plants could have a material adverse effect on demand for and prices received for our coal. Alternatively, less stringent air emissions limitations, particularly related to sulfur, to the extent enacted could make low sulfur coal less attractive, which could also have a material adverse effect on the demand for and prices received for our coal services. Increased regulation relating to environmental protection, health and safety and other matters may impose significant costs on us, and future requirements could limit our ability to produce coal at a competitive price. Our coal processing operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulations with respect to matters such as: • employee health and safety; • permitting and licensing requirements; • air quality standards; • water quality standards; • plant, wildlife and wetland protection; • blasting operations; • the management and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous materials generated by coal processing operations; • the storage of petroleum products and other hazardous substances; • reclamation and restoration of properties after mining operations are completed; and • discharge of materials into the environment, including air emissions and wastewater discharge; Our processing operations and future mining operations may adversely impact the environment, which could result in material liabilities to us. The processes required to mine and process coal may cause certain impacts or generate certain materials that might adversely affect the environment from time to time. Certain of our processing operations and future mining operations may use hazardous and other regulated materials and may generate hazardous wastes. We may be subject to claims under federal and state statutes and/or common law doctrines for penalties, toxic torts and other damages, as well as for natural resource damages and for the investigation and remediation of soil, surface water, groundwater, and other media under laws such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), commonly known as Superfund, or the Clean Water Act. Liability may be strict, joint and several, so that we, regardless of whether we caused contamination, may be held responsible for more than our share of the contamination or other damages, or even for the entire share. These and other similar unforeseen impacts that our operations may have on the environment, as well as exposures to regulated materials or wastes associated with our operations, could result in costs and liabilities that could adversely affect us. 35 Table Of Contents Because our management team has limited experience in the coal industry, there is a risk that our coal business may fail. The members of our management team have limited experience operating a mining company and do not have formal training as geologists, engineers or in the technical aspects of management of a coal company. As a result, our management’s decisions and choices may not take into account standard engineering or managerial approaches that mining companies commonly use. In addition, we have to rely on the technical services of others with expertise in mining in order for us to exploit our properties. If we are unable to contract for the services of such individuals, it will make it difficult and maybe impossible to pursue our business plan. Consequently, our operations, earnings and ultimate financial success could suffer irreparable harm due to management’s lack of experience in this industry. Our ability to collect payments from our customers could be impaired if their creditworthiness deteriorates. Our ability to receive payment for coal processed and delivered depends on the continued creditworthiness of our customers. If we determine that a customer is not creditworthy, we may be able to withhold delivery under the customer's coal processing agreement. Furthermore, the bankruptcy of any of our customers could materially and adversely affect our financial position. Many utilities have sold their power plants to non-regulated affiliates or third parties that may be less creditworthy, thereby increasing the risk we bear on payment default. These new power plant owners may have credit ratings that are below investment grade. In addition, some of our customers may be affected by the current economic downturn, which may impact their ability to fulfill their contractual obligations. Competition with other service providers could force us to extend credit to customers and on terms that could increase the risk we bear on payment default. We may also enter into contracts to supply coal to energy trading and brokering companies under which those companies sell coal to end users. If the creditworthiness of the energy trading and brokering companies declines, this would increase the risk that we may not be able to collect payment for all coal sold and delivered to or on behalf of these energy trading and brokering companies. An inability to collect payment from these counterparties may materially adversely affect our results of operations, business and financial condition. We operate our coal preparation plant with a limited work force. Our ability to operate a coal preparation plant efficiently and profitably could be impaired if we lose key personnel or fail to continue to attract qualified personnel. We manage our coal business with a number of key personnel. In addition, to the extent that our business develops and expands, we believe that our future success will depend greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. We cannot be certain that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel and contractors in the future. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, business and financial condition. A shortage of skilled mining labor in the United States could decrease our future labor productivity and increase labor costs, which would adversely affect our future profitability. Efficient coal processing equipment requires skilled laborers, preferably with at least one year of experience, and proficiency in multiple mining tasks, including coal processing and equipment maintenance. Any shortage of skilled mining labor reduces the productivity of experienced employees who must assist in training unskilled employees. If a shortage of experienced labor occurs, it could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand coal operations in the event there is an increase in the demand for coal processing, which could adversely affect our results of operations, business and financial condition. Competition within the coal industry may adversely affect our ability to process coal. The coal industry has experienced consolidation in recent years, including consolidation among some of our major competitors. We cannot assure you that the result of current or further consolidation in the industry will not adversely affect us. In addition, potential changes to international trade agreements, trade concessions or other political and economic arrangements may benefit coal industry operating in countries other than the United States. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete on the basis of price or other factors with companies that in the future may benefit from favorable various arrangements. As a result, our results of operations, business and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. 36 Table Of Contents Risks Relating to Our Common Shares Our common shares were delisted from the NASDAQ Global Select Market, which could negatively impact the price of our common shares and our ability to access the capital markets. Our common shares were, until July 22, 2014, listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, or NASDAQ. Our ability to retain our listing was contingent upon compliance with NASDAQ continued listing standards. The listing standards of NASDAQ provide, among others, that a company may be delisted if the bid price of its stock is below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive trading days (“minimum bid price requirement”) and the company is unable to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement within the 180 calendar days grace period provided by NASDAQ. As previously announced by us, on April 4, 2013, we received a letter from the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Department (the “NASDAQ Staff”) notifying us that the minimum bid price of our common stock fell below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive trading days and therefore we did not meet the minimum bid price requirement set forth in NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450(a)(1). We were provided 180 calendar days, or until October 1, 2013, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. On October 1, 2013 we received a letter from the NASDAQ Staff notifying us that we had not regained compliance, with the minimum bid price requirement. We timely requested a hearing before the NASDAQ Hearing Panel (“the Panel”) and prior to any such hearing, we regained compliance through the implementation of the 1 for 15 reverse split of our common shares that was effective upon the commencement of trading on October 17, 2013. On January 3, 2014, we received a written notification from NASDAQ indicating that we regained compliance with the minimum bid price requirement of $1.00. Under NASDAQ Listing Rule 5815(d)(4)(a), the Panel monitored us for a six month period ending June 30, 2014, to see if we experience a closing bid price under $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive trading days. Since receipt of the January 3, 2014 notification, we undertook a consolidation of our common shares, on March 6, 2014, at a 1 for 10 ratio in order to avoid our common shares falling below the $1.00 minimum bid price for a period of 30 consecutive trading days. As a result, on March 6, 2014, the stock started trading at $4.13 per share. Nevertheless, 23 trading days following this consolidation of share capital, our stock price dropped again below the minimum bid price requirement, and for the following 29 consecutive trading days continued to trade below $1.00, leading us, on May 15, 2014, to effect the another consolidation of shares, this time at the ratio of 1 for 50. Nonetheless, despite of the efforts to maintain the minimum bid price requirement, our stock continued to trade below $1.00, achieving the $1.00 minimum bid price for just nine trading days (from May 19, 2014 to May 30, 2014), and trading as low as $0.34 per share on June 17, 2014. Our common shares traded as low as $0.49 before their trading was halted on June 18, 2014. The trading of our common shares was resumed on June 27, 2014, However, on July 15, 2014, in attempt to meet the minimum bid price requirement of $1.00, we effected another consolidation of shares at a ratio of 1for 50. On July 17, 2014, our common shares were halted from trading as a result of a NASDAQ inquiry regarding our intentions to change transfer agents. On September 22, 2014, our stock was officially delisted from the NASDAQ Stock Market according to the NASDAQ’s relevant SEC filing. From October 17, 2013 until July 15, 2014 we completed five alterations in our share capitals (1:15, 1:3, 1:10, 1:50 and 1:50) that, in the aggregate, represent a ratio of 1:1,125,000. Thus, for every 1,125,000 shares a holder owned on or before October 2013, the holder now owns one share. All five alterations of share capital failed to maintain the stock price above $1.00 for a period of thirty (30) consecutive days. In addition, on December 23, 2013, we received notice from the NASDAQ Staff indicating that we did not satisfy the $50 million in market value of listed securities (“MVLS”) requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (the “Market Cap Requirement”), as set forth in Listing Rule 5450(b)(2)(A), for the prior to December 21, 2013, 30 consecutive business days. In accordance with the NASDAQ Listing Rules, we were granted a 180-day grace period, through June 23, 2014, to evidence compliance with the Market Cap Requirement. Compliance with the Market Cap Requirement can be achieved if the Company evidences a market value of listed securities of at least $50 million for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days, but generally for no more than 20 consecutive business days, during the grace period. As of June 17, 2014, the Company had not regained compliance and its MVLS was $40.9 million. As such, on June 25, 2014, we received a delisting Notice from the NASDAQ Staff indicating that delisting of the Company’s securities was also determined pursuant to our inability to comply with the Market Cap Requirement, and the Staff issued the Delisting Determination on this separate and additional basis. Accordingly, the NASDAQ Staff notified the Company that it had determined pursuant to its discretionary authority set forth in Listing Rule 5101 to delist the Company's securities based on public interest concerns raised by certain false and misleading public disclosures made by the Company and the fact that the Company had not demonstrated an ability to sustain compliance with the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement and the $50 million in market value of listed securities requirement for continued listing on NASDAQ. Although the Company initially appealed this determination and continued to remain listed, since NASDAQ had notified the Company that it determined pursuant to its discretionary authority set forth in Listing Rule 5101 to delist the Company's securities based on (i) public interest concerns raised by certain alleged false and misleading public disclosures made by the Company in a few of its historical press releases, which were all subsequently re-issued and clarified in conjunction with discussions with NASDAQ, and (ii) the fact that the Company had not demonstrated an ability to sustain compliance with the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement and the $50 million in market value of listed securities requirement for continued listing on NASDAQ. Although the Company initially appealed the NASDAQ determination, it was ultimately determined after discussion with NASDAQ that the success of appealing such NASDAQ determination was unlikely and the trading of our common shares on NASDAQ was suspended at the open of business on July 22, 2014, following the voluntary withdrawal of the request to go to an appeal hearing. 37 Table Of Contents Following the above described delisting from NASDAQ, our common shares are being quoted on the OTC Markets (the “OTC”) under the trading symbol “NEWL”. Such quotation is likely to result in being more difficult for us to raise additional capital through the public or private sale of equity securities and for investors to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, our common stock. In addition, there can be no assurance that our common stock would be eligible for trading on any such alternative exchange or markets. We have filed a form 15c-211, though a market maker, with FINRA and we expect feedback from FINRA with respect to such filing in due course. Our restructuring and development efforts to strengthen our financial position and reduce our debt may adversely affect our common shareholders through dilution or complete loss in value. We may continue to effect various transactions to restructure our capital structure and reduce our debt service obligations, which may include additional issuances of equity securities in exchange for our indebtedness or the issuance of securities convertible into common shares, such as our preference shares. In addition, as part of the restructuring, certain of our indebtedness continues to remain outstanding, and the agreements relating to such indebtedness contain various restrictive covenants. Any debt that remains outstanding or we may incur as part of the continued restructuring will remain senior in right of payment over our common shares. At our option or not, subject to certain conditions, certain interest and principal payments of our indebtedness may be satisfied by issuing additional common shares of the Company (rather than in cash). Refer to “Item 5.-Operating and Financial Review and Prospects-Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of our indebtedness. The issuance of additional common shares may be dilutive to our stockholders, including holders who received common shares in any restructuring. We cannot predict the extent to which this dilution and the possibility of additional issuances and sales of our common shares will negatively affect the trading price or the liquidity of our common shares. There may not be an active market for our common shares, which may cause our common shares to trade at a discount and make it difficult to sell once you purchased. We cannot assure you that an active trading market for our common shares will be sustained. We cannot assure you of the price at which our common shares will trade in the public market in the future or that the price of our shares in the public market will reflect our actual financial performance. You may not be able to resell your common shares at or above their current market price. Additionally, a lack of liquidity may result in wide bid-ask spreads, contribute to significant fluctuations in the market price of our common shares and limit the number of investors who are able to buy the common shares. The oil tanker/asphalt carriers and dry bulk markets have been highly unpredictable and volatile. The market price of our common shares may be similarly volatile. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent investors from being able to sell their common stock at or above the price an investor pays for our common stock in an offering. In the past, class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of those companies’ common stock. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation is often expensive and diverts management’s attention and company resources and could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Anti-takeover provisions in our constitutional documents and in our loan/financing agreements could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a recapitalization, amalgamation, merger or acquisition or other business combination, which could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Several provisions of our bye-laws and/or the loan/financing agreements to which we are party could discourage, delay or prevent a recapitalization or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable. These include provisions: • authorizing our board of directors to issue “blank check” preference shares without shareholder approval; • establishing a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • prohibiting us from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested shareholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person becomes an interested shareholder unless certain conditions are met; • not permitting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • authorizing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of our outstanding common shares; 38 Table Of Contents • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders to our board of directors, subject to certain rights guaranteed to shareholders under the BCA; • requiring Grandunion, or our former chairman Nicholas Fistes and our current Chairman Michail Zolotas, to maintain directly or indirectly, legal and beneficial ownership of not less than 10% of the issued and outstanding share capital of the Company (whereas in two loan agreements the requirement is for Michail Zolotas and Nicholas Fistes to maintain, directly or indirectly, legal and beneficial ownership of not less than 33.3% of the issued and outstanding share capital of the Company); • requiring our former chairman Nicholas Fistes and Michail Zolotas to be at any given time the beneficial owners of at least 50.1% of the voting share capital of Grandunion; • requiring our former chairman Nicholas Fistes and Michail Zolotas to remain at any given time the Chairman, and the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, respectively; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at our shareholder meetings; and • requiring Michail Zolotas to be at any given time the beneficial owner of at least 20% of the issued and outstanding shares of the Company, requiring Michail Zolotas to remain at any given time the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and requiring that the current Chief Financial Officer of the Company remain in such position. Despite our efforts to restructure our credit facility with Piraeus Bank (CPB loan), we have not been able to do so successfully. As a result, the resignation of Nicholas Fistes, among other actions, has caused us to default under certain of the provisions under this credit facility, as described above. While we continue to use our best efforts to complete our restructuring with Piraeus Bank (CPB loan), there can be no assurance that a successful resolution can be reached with Piraeus Bank (CPB loan). Further, there is no assurance that the Company will obtain releases or waivers from defaults, or incur additional defaults, under certain of its other indebtedness, and the failure to obtain such releases or waivers could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. These provisions could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a recapitalization, amalgamation, merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. 39 Table Of Contents 