ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in an intensely competitive industry. Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the events described in this section could cause results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements made in this report, and could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash available for dividends. Industry Specific Risk Factors Charter hire rates for dry bulk vessels may decrease in the future, which may adversely affect our earnings. The dry bulk shipping industry is cyclical with attendant volatility in charter hire rates and profitability. The degree of charter hire rate volatility among different types of dry bulk vessels has varied widely, and charter hire rates for dry bulk vessels have recently declined from historically high levels. Fluctuations in charter rates result from changes in the supply and demand for vessel capacity and changes in the supply and demand for the major commodities carried by water internationally. Because the factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable, the nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. Factors that influence demand for vessel capacity include: • demand for and production of dry bulk products; • global and regional economic conditions; • distance dry bulk is to be moved by sea; and • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. Factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: • number of newbuilding deliveries; • scrapping of older vessels; • vessel casualties; and • number of vessels that are out of service. We anticipate that the future demand for our dry bulk vessels will be dependent upon continued economic growth in the world’s economies, including China and India, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the global dry bulk fleet and the sources and supply of dry bulk cargo to be transported by sea. The capacity of the global dry bulk carrier fleet seems likely to increase and there can be no assurance that economic growth will continue. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our ability to recharter our dry bulk vessels upon the expiration or termination of their time charters and the charter rates payable under any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, the current state of the dry bulk shipping market. If the dry bulk shipping market is in a period of depression when our vessels’ charters expire, we may be forced to re-charter them at reduced rates or even possibly a rate whereby we incur a loss, which may reduce our earnings or make our earnings volatile. In addition, because the market value of our vessels may fluctuate significantly, we may incur losses when we sell vessels, which may adversely affect our earnings. If we sell vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our financial statements, the sale may be at less than the vessel’s carrying amount on our financial statements, resulting in a loss and a reduction in earnings. 19 Table of Contents The market values of our vessels may decrease, which could limit the amount of funds that we can borrow under our credit facility. The fair market values of our vessels have generally experienced high volatility. Market prices for secondhand dry bulk vessels have recently been at historically high levels. You should expect the market values of our vessels to fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry and prevailing charter hire rates, competition from other shipping companies and other modes of transportation, the types, sizes and ages of our vessels, applicable governmental regulations and the cost of newbuildings. If the market value of our fleet declines, we may not be able to draw down the full amount of our credit facility and we may not be able to obtain other financing or incur debt on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. The market values of our vessels may decrease, which could cause us to breach covenants in our credit facility and adversely affect our operating results. If the market values of our vessels, which have recently been at historically high levels, decrease, we may breach some of the covenants contained in the financing agreements relating to our indebtedness at the time, including covenants in our credit facility. If we do breach such covenants and we are unable to remedy the relevant breach, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our fleet. In addition, if the book value of a vessel is impaired due to unfavorable market conditions or a vessel is sold at a price below its book value, we would incur a loss that could adversely affect our operating results. World events could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001 and in London on July 7, 2005 and the continuing response of the United States to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, continues to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The continuing conflict in Iraq may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenues and costs. Our operating results will be subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could affect our operating results and the amount of available cash with which we can pay dividends. We operate our vessels in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter hire rates. To the extent we operate vessels in the spot market, this seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results, which could affect the amount of dividends that we pay to our stockholders from quarter to quarter. The dry bulk shipping market is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and other raw materials in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns in these months tend to disrupt vessel scheduling and supplies of certain commodities. While this seasonality will not affect our operating results, as long as our fleet is employed on time charters, if our vessels are employed in the spot market in the future, it could materially affect our operating results and cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We are subject to international safety regulations and the failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to increased liability, may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the United Nation’s International Maritime Organization’s International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or the ISM Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive ‘‘Safety Management System’’ that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or 20 Table of Contents detention in, certain ports. Each of the vessels that has been delivered to us is ISM Code-certified and we expect that each other vessel that we have agreed to purchase will be ISM Code-certified when delivered to us. Maritime claimants could arrest one or more of our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a claimant may seek to obtain security for its claim by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of money to have the arrest or attachment lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the ‘‘associated ship’’ theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any ‘‘associated’’ vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could attempt to assert ‘‘associated ship’’ liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in a loss of earnings. A government could requisition one or more of our vessels for title or for hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our revenues and reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution as dividends to our stockholders. Company Specific Risk Factors We are a recently formed company and have a limited operating history. Our company and our predecessor company, Eagle Holdings LLC, were formed in March 2005 and January 2005, respectively, and we did not own or operate any vessels prior to April 2005. We, therefore, have a limited operating history and limited historical financial data on which to evaluate our operations or our ability to implement and achieve our business strategy. We cannot assure you that our board of directors will declare dividends. Our policy is to declare quarterly dividends to stockholders in February, April, July and October in amounts that are substantially equal to our available cash from operations during the previous quarter less any cash reserves for drydockings and working capital. The declaration and payment of dividends, if any, will always be subject to the discretion of our board of directors, restrictions contained in our credit facility and the requirements of Marshall Islands law. The timing and amount of any dividends declared will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition and cash requirements and availability, our ability to obtain debt and equity financing on acceptable terms as contemplated by our growth strategy, the terms of our outstanding indebtedness and the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us. Although our fleet is currently committed to time charters, the international dry bulk shipping industry is highly volatile, and we cannot predict with certainty the amount of cash, if any, that will be available for distribution as dividends in any period. Also, there may be a high degree of variability from period to period in the amount of cash that is available for the payment of dividends. We may incur expenses or liabilities or be subject to other circumstances in the future that reduce or eliminate the amount of cash that we have available for distribution as dividends, including as a result of the risks described in this Annual Report. Our growth strategy contemplates that we will finance our acquisitions of additional vessels through debt financings or the net proceeds of future equity issuances on terms acceptable to us. If financing is not available to us on acceptable terms, our board of directors may determine to finance or refinance acquisitions with cash from operations, which would reduce or even eliminate the amount of cash available for the payment of dividends. 21 Table of Contents Under the terms of our credit facility, we will not be permitted to pay dividends if there is a default or a breach of a loan covenant. In addition, we are permitted to pay dividends only in amounts up to our EBITDA (as defined in our credit agreement) less the aggregate amount of interest incurred and net amounts payable under interest rate hedging agreements during the relevant period and an agreed upon reserve for drydockings. Please see the section of this Annual Report entitled ‘‘Credit Facility’’ for more information relating to restrictions on our ability to pay dividends under the terms of our credit facility. Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends other than from surplus (retained earnings and the excess of consideration received for the sale of shares above the par value of the shares) or while a company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent by the payment of such a dividend. We may not have sufficient surplus in the future to pay dividends and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient funds or surplus to make distributions to us. We can give no assurance that dividends will be paid at all. We may have difficulty managing our planned growth properly. The recent formation of our company and our initial public offering and the acquisition and management of the 16 vessels in our operating fleet have imposed, as well as additional dry bulk vessels that we may acquire in the future, will impose, significant responsibilities on our management and staff. The addition of vessels to our fleet may require us to increase the number of our personnel. We will also have to manage our customer base so that we can provide continued employment for our vessels upon the expiration of our existing time charters. We intend to continue to grow our business. Our future growth will primarily depend on: • locating and acquiring suitable vessels; • identifying and consummating acquisitions; • enhancing our customer base; • managing our expansion; and • obtaining required financing on acceptable terms. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks, such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, the possibility that indemnification agreements will be unenforceable or insufficient to cover potential losses and difficulties associated with imposing common standards, controls, procedures and policies, obtaining additional qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and integrating newly acquired assets and operations into existing infrastructure. We cannot give any assurance that we will be successful in executing our growth plans or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with our future growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to borrow amounts under our credit facility and restrictive covenants in our credit facility may impose financial and other restrictions on us We entered into a senior secured revolving credit facility in July 2005. We used borrowings under the revolving credit facility to refinance a portion of our outstanding indebtedness at the time of our initial public offering in June 2005 and to fund vessel acquisitions. We have amended and enhanced our credit facility in July 2006 and November 2006 with the most recent amendment enabling us to enter into a vessel newbuilding program. Our ability to borrow future amounts under our credit facility will be subject to the satisfaction of certain customary conditions precedent and compliance with terms and conditions included in the loan documents. In connection with vessel acquisitions, amounts borrowed may not exceed 75% of the value of the vessels securing our obligations under the credit facility. Our ability to borrow such amounts, in each case, will be subject to our lender’s approval of the vessel acquisition. Our lender’s approval will be based on the lender’s satisfaction of our ability to raise additional capital through equity issuances in amounts acceptable to our lender and the proposed employment of the vessel to be acquired. To the extent that we are not able to satisfy these requirements, including as a result of a decline in the value of our vessels, we may not be able to draw down the credit facility in connection with a vessel acquisition without obtaining a waiver or consent from the lender. 22 Table of Contents The credit facility also imposes operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability to, among other things: • pay dividends in amounts exceeding our EBITDA, less the aggregate amount of interest incurred and net amounts payable under interest rate hedging agreements during the relevant period and an agreed upon reserve for drydockings; • change our Chief Executive Officer without the approval of our lender; • incur additional indebtedness; • change the flag, class or management of our vessels; • create liens on our assets; • sell our vessels; • merge or consolidate with, or transfer all or substantially all our assets to, another person; • enter into a new line of business; and • enter into a time charter or consecutive voyage charters that has a term that exceeds, or which by virtue of any optional extensions may exceed, thirteen months. In addition, we may not pay dividends if there is a default or a breach of a loan covenant under the credit facility or if the payment of the dividends would result in a default or breach of a loan covenant. Our indebtedness may also be accelerated if we experience a change of control. Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lender in order to engage in some corporate actions. Our lender’s interests may be different from ours and we cannot guarantee you that we will be able to obtain our lender’s permission when needed. This may limit our ability to pay dividends to you, finance our future operations, make acquisitions or pursue business opportunities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance indebtedness incurred under our credit facility. Our business strategy contemplates that we repay all or a portion of our acquisition related debt from time to time with the net proceeds of equity issuances. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance our indebtedness through equity offerings or otherwise on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If we are not able to refinance our indebtedness, we will have to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest of this indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate cash flow in amounts that are sufficient for these purposes. If we are not able to satisfy these obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans or sell our assets. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, any defaults by them, and the market value of our fleet, among other things, may materially affect our ability to obtain alternative financing. In addition, debt service payments under our credit facility or alternative financing may limit funds otherwise available for working capital, capital expenditures, payment of dividends and other purposes. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations, or if we otherwise default under our credit facility or an alternative financing arrangement, our lender could declare the debt, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable and foreclose on our fleet, which could result in the acceleration of other indebtedness that we may have at such time and the commencement of similar foreclosure proceedings by other lenders. Purchasing and operating secondhand vessels may result in increased operating costs and reduced fleet utilization. The 16 Handymax dry bulk vessels in our operating fleet, at December 31, 2006, are all secondhand vessels. We have entered into contracts for 2 newbuilding vessels. We also may enter into additional newbuilding contracts and purchase additional secondhand vessels in the future. While we have the right to inspect previously owned vessels prior to purchase, such an inspection does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition that we would have if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. A secondhand vessel may have conditions or defects that we were not aware of when we bought the vessel and which may require us to incur costly repairs to the vessel. These repairs may require us to put a vessel into drydock, which would reduce our fleet utilization. Furthermore, we usually do not receive the benefit of warranties on secondhand vessels. 23 Table of Contents We depend upon a few significant customers for a large part of our revenues and the loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect our financial performance. We derive a significant part of our revenues from a small number of charterers. The charterers’ payments to us under their charters are our sole source of revenue. Some of our charterers are privately owned companies for which limited credit and financial information was available to us in making our assessment of counterparty risk when we entered into our charter. If one or more of these charterers terminates its charter or chooses not to re-charter our vessel or is unable to perform under its charter with us and we are not able to find a replacement charter, we could suffer a loss of revenues that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution as dividends to our stockholders. In addition, we may be required to change the flagging or registration of the related vessel and may incur additional costs, including maintenance and crew costs if a charterer were to default on its obligations. Our stockholders do not have any recourse against our charterers. In the highly competitive international shipping industry, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources. Our vessels are employed in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of dry bulk cargo by sea is intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its operators to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter the dry bulk shipping industry and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions and may be able to offer lower charter rates and higher quality vessels than we are able to offer. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may negatively impact the effectiveness of our management and results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team. We have entered into an employment contract with our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Sophocles Zoullas. Our success will depend upon our ability to retain key members of our management team and to hire new members as may be necessary. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining replacement personnel could have a similar effect. We do not intend to maintain ‘‘key man’’ life insurance on any of our officers. Risks associated with operating ocean going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which could adversely affect our revenues and stock price. The operation of ocean going vessels carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: • marine disaster; • environmental accidents; • cargo and property losses or damage; • business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions; and • piracy. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues. The involvement of our vessels in an environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. The shipping industry has inherent operational risks that may not be adequately covered by our insurance. We procure insurance for our fleet against risks commonly insured against by vessel owners and operators, including hull and machinery insurance, war risks insurance and protection and indemnity insurance (which include environmental damage and pollution insurance). We can give no assurance that we are adequately insured against all risks or that our insurers will pay a particular claim. Even if our insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to timely obtain a replacement vessel in the event of a loss. Furthermore, in the future, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet. We may also be subject to calls, 24 Table of Contents or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive indemnity insurance coverage for tort liability. Our insurance policies also contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions which, although we believe are standard in the shipping industry, may nevertheless increase our costs or decrease our recovery in the event of a loss. The aging of our fleet may result in increased operating costs in the future, which could adversely affect our earnings. In general, the cost of maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increases with the age of the vessel. Although the dwt weighted average age of the 16 Handymax dry bulk vessels in our operating fleet is approximately six years as of December 31, 2006, one of our vessels is 22 years old. As our fleet ages, we will incur increased costs. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations and safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may also require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. We may have to pay tax on United States source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as United States source shipping income and such income is subject to a 4% United States federal income tax without allowance for any deductions, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder. While we believe that we qualify for exemption under Section 883 for 2006, our ability to qualify for this statutory tax exemption is dependent on certain circumstances related to the ownership of our common stock which are beyond our control and on interpretations of existing Treasury regulations and we can therefore give no assurance that we in fact will be eligible to qualify for exemption under Section 883 for future years. In addition, changes in the Code, the Treasury regulations or the interpretation thereof by the Internal Revenue Service or the courts could adversely affect our ability to take advantage of the exemption under Section 883. If we are not entitled to this exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, we would be subject for such taxable year to a 4% United States federal income tax on our United States source shipping income. The imposition of this taxation could have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our stockholders. Based on the current operation of our vessels, if we were subject to this tax, our United States federal income tax liability would be approximately $862,000 per year. Because the operations of our vessels are under the control of third party charterers, we can give no assurance that our United States federal income tax liability would be substantially higher. However, since no more that 50% of our shipping income would be treated as derived from U.S. sources, our maximum tax liability under the 4% tax regime would never exceed 2% of our shipping income. United States tax authorities could treat us as a ‘‘passive foreign investment company,’’ which could have adverse United States federal income tax consequences to United States holders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a ‘‘passive foreign investment company,’’ or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of ‘‘passive income’’ or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s assets produce or are held for the production of those types of ‘‘passive income.’’ For purposes of these tests, ‘‘passive income’’ includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from 25 Table of Contents unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute ‘‘passive income.’’ United States stockholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous United States federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our current method of operation, we do not believe that we have been, are or will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time chartering activities does not constitute ‘‘passive income,’’ and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our method of operation. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our United States stockholders would face adverse United States tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those stockholders made an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such stockholders, as discussed below under ‘‘United States Federal Income Taxation of United States Holders’’), such stockholders would be liable to pay United States federal income tax upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common stock at the then prevailing income tax rates applicable to ordinary income plus interest as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the stockholder’s holding period of our common stock. Please see the section of this Form 10-K entitled ‘‘Tax Considerations – United States Federal Income Taxation of United States Holders’’ for a more comprehensive discussion of the United States federal income tax consequences to United States stockholders if we are treated as a PFIC. Our vessels may suffer damage and we may face unexpected drydocking costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. The loss of earnings while our vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings and reduce the amount of cash that we have available for dividends. We may not have insurance that is sufficient to cover these costs or losses and may have to pay drydocking costs not covered by our insurance. We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations and to make dividend payments. We are a holding company and our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make dividend payments depends on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, our board of directors may exercise its discretion not to declare or pay dividends. We do not intend to obtain funds from other sources to pay dividends. As we expand our business, we may need to improve our operating and financial systems and will need to recruit suitable employees and crew for our vessels. Our current operating and financial systems may not be adequate as we implement our plan to expand the size of our fleet and our attempts to improve those systems may be ineffective. In addition, as we expand our fleet, we will need to recruit suitable additional seafarers and shore side administrative and management personnel. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to hire suitable employees as we expand our fleet. If we or our crewing agent encounters business or financial difficulties, we may not be able to adequately staff our vessels. If we are unable to grow our financial and operating systems or to recruit suitable employees as we expand our fleet, our financial performance may be adversely affected and, among other things, the amount of cash available for distribution as dividends to our stockholders may be reduced. 26 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Common Stock We are incorporated in the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or the BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the laws of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in the United States. The rights of stockholders of companies incorporated in the Marshall Islands may differ from the rights of stockholders of companies incorporated in the United States. While the BCA provides that it is to be interpreted according to the laws of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, there have been few, if any, court cases interpreting the BCA in the Marshall Islands and we can not predict whether Marshall Islands courts would reach the same conclusions as United States courts. Thus, you may have more difficulty in protecting your interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling stockholders than would stockholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction which has developed a relatively more substantial body of case law. Future sales of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may depress the market price for our common stock. These sales could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities in the future. We intend to issue additional shares of our common stock in the future and our stockholders. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize us to issue 100 million shares of common stock of which 35,900,001 shares are outstanding currently. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could make it difficult for our stockholders to replace or remove our current board of directors or have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Several provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it difficult for our stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions will include: • authorizing our board of directors to issue ‘‘blank check’’ preferred stock without stockholder approval; • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three year terms; • authorizing vacancies on our board of directors to be filled only by a vote of the majority of directors then in office and specifically denying our stockholders the right to fill vacancies on the board; • establishing certain advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; and • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders. • authorizing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock entitled to vote for the directors; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and • establishing supermajority voting provisions with respect to amendments to certain provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws. 27 Table of Contents These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. We expect that the composition of our board of directors may change in the near-term. Currently, Michael B. Goldberg and Frank J. Loverro, both managing directors of Kelso, are members of our board of directors. Until recently, Kelso, the majority owner of Eagle Ventures, beneficially held a significant portion of our outstanding shares through Eagle Ventures LLC. As of the date of this report, Eagle Ventures beneficially owns only 0.04% of our shares. Consistent with Kelso’s practice of not having its managing directors serve on the boards of directors of public companies unless Kelso’s level of beneficial stock ownership in the company is significant and warrants such participation, we expect that Mr. Goldberg and Mr. Loverro may resign from our board of directors. In addition, there may be other changes to the composition of our board of directors as a result of Kelso’s reduced beneficial ownership or otherwise. In order to ease this transition, we have underway an active process to identify persons qualified to serve as members of our board of directors and may propose such persons for election or appointment in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 