Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be impacted by a number of factors. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of these operations and the financial results of these operations elsewhere in this Report, the most significant factors affecting our operations include the following: Risks Related to Our Industry and Business We may not be able to continue as a going concern or fund our existing capital needs. Our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph in the report on our 2010 financial statements related to the uncertainty in our ability to continue as a going concern. The paragraph stated that we are in default on our line of credit, do not have sufficient cash on-hand or other funding available to meet our obligations and sustain our operations, which raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We will not be generating any product-based revenues or realizing cash flows from operations in the near term, if at all. We may not have sufficient cash or other funding available to complete our anticipated business activities for the remainder of 2011. In further recognition of our current financial situation, on January 3, 2011, we publicly announced that with the oversight of our Board of Directors we intend to evaluate strategic alternatives, including a possible sale of the company. In order to address our working capital shortfall we intend to raise additional capital by accessing the capital markets. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in accessing the capital markets on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In order to provide access to needed capital, we executed an Investment Agreement that allows us to sell shares of our common stock to an accredited investor, Dutchess, subject to certain terms and conditions. Any shares of our common stock that we sell pursuant to the Investment Agreement will 16 Table of Contents have a dilutive impact on our stockholders. The Investment Agreement terms do not restrict Dutchess's ability to re-sell the shares we issue to them, and such re-sales could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly with advances under the Investment Agreement. To the extent of any such decline, any subsequent advances would require us to issue a greater number of shares of common stock to Dutchess in exchange for each dollar of the advance. Under these circumstances our existing stockholders would experience greater dilution. The sale of our common stock under the Investment Agreement could encourage short sales by third parties, which could contribute to the further decline of our stock price. Through March 23, 2011 we have issued 47,403,618 shares to Dutchess, including 2,475,248 shares as a commitment fee, and received proceeds of approximately $0.7 million. Based on the last reported share price of our common stock on March 21, 2011, we would be able to raise approximately an additional $0.3 million through the use of the Dutchess Agreement. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain adequate capital funding in the future, under the Investment Agreement or otherwise, to continue operations and implement our strategy. As a result of these uncertainties, there is significant doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We are a development stage company and may never attain product sales. We have not received approval for any of our product candidates from the FDA. Any compounds that we discover or in-license will require extensive and costly development, preclinical testing and/or clinical trials prior to seeking regulatory approval for commercial sales. Our most advanced product candidate, cethromycin, and any other compounds we discover, develop or in-license, may never be approved for commercial sale. The time required to attain product sales and profitability is lengthy and highly uncertain, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or maintain product sales. We expect our net operating losses to continue for at least several years, and we are unable to predict the extent of future losses or when we will become profitable, if ever. We have incurred significant net losses since our formation in 1999. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2010, our net losses were $9.2 million and $9.3 million, respectively, our total accumulated deficits were $131.6 million and $140.9 million, respectively, and our cash flows from operating activities were $(6.4 million) and $(11.9 million), respectively. Our net losses are due in large part to the significant research and development costs required to identify, validate and license potential product candidates, conduct preclinical studies and conduct clinical trials of our more advanced product candidates. To date, we have generated only limited revenues, consisting of management fees, one-time or limited payments associated with our collaborations and government grant awards, and we do not anticipate generating any significant revenues in the near term, if ever. Our operating expenses may increase over the next several years if we: •conduct additional Phase III clinical trials and prepare for the commercial launch of cethromycin; •continue the preclinical development and commence the clinical development of our other product candidates, such as ALS-357 and ALS-886; •expand our research and development activities; •acquire or in-license new technologies and product candidates; and •increase our required corporate infrastructure and overhead. As a result, we expect to continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our research and product development efforts, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if ever. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on an ongoing basis. 17 Table of Contents We will require additional funding to satisfy our future capital needs, and future financing strategies may further dilute or otherwise adversely affect holders of our common stock. Our operations will require significant additional funding due to the absence of any meaningful revenues in the near future. We do not know whether additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms or at all. At our 2010 annual meeting of stockholders, our stockholders approved a significant increase in the number of shares of common stock that we may issue under our certificate of incorporation. Since the time of this increase in our authorized shares of common stock, we have issued approximately 175.6 million shares of common stock in connection with a registered offering and under prior arrangements similar to the Investment Agreement, principally to fund working capital. To the extent we are successful in raising additional capital by issuing equity securities, including through the issuance of common stock under the Investment Agreement, our stockholders are likely to experience substantial further dilution. Any additional equity securities we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of stock. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, we may be required to relinquish some rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain adequate capital funding in the future to continue operations and implement our strategy. In further recognition of our current financial situation, on January 3, 2011, we publicly announced that with the oversight of our Board of Directors we intend to evaluate strategic alternatives, including a possible sale of the company. As a result of these uncertainties, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We will not be able to commercialize our drug candidates if our clinical trials do not demonstrate safety and efficacy. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of our drug candidates, we must conduct extensive development and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our drug candidates and clinical or animal trials to demonstrate the efficacy of our drug candidates. Clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. A failure of one or more of our clinical trials or animal efficacy studies can occur at any stage of testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of clinical trials or animal efficacy studies that could delay or prevent our ability to receive regulatory approval or commercialize our drug candidates, including: •regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site; •we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials, or we may abandon projects that we expect to be promising, if our clinical trials or animal efficacy studies produce negative or inconclusive results; •we might have to suspend or terminate our clinical trials if the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; •regulators or institutional review boards may require that we hold, suspend or terminate clinical development for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements; •the cost of our clinical trials could escalate and become cost prohibitive; •any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the product not commercially viable; •we may not be successful in recruiting a sufficient number of qualifying subjects for our clinical trials; and •the effects of our drug candidates may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or the drug candidates may have other unexpected characteristics. 18 Table of Contents Our business would be materially harmed if we fail to obtain FDA approval of a new drug application for cethromycin. Our ability to generate any significant product revenues in the near future will depend solely on the successful development and commercialization of cethromycin, our most advanced product candidate. The FDA may not approve in a timely manner, or at all, any NDA that we submit. If any NDA we submit is not approved by the FDA, we will be unable to commercialize that product in the United States and our business will be materially harmed. In June 2010, as part of the testimony for a hearing of the U.S. Congress Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on Health, our Chief Executive Officer commented on the challenges that we and other innovator companies have faced in the clinical development and regulatory approval of new antibiotics to improve public health. The FDA can and does reject NDAs, and often requires additional clinical trials, even when product candidates performed well or achieved favorable results in large-scale Phase III clinical trials. The FDA imposes substantial requirements on the introduction of pharmaceutical products through lengthy and detailed laboratory and clinical testing procedures, sampling activities and other costly and time-consuming procedures. Satisfaction of these requirements typically takes several years and may vary substantially based upon the type and complexity of the pharmaceutical product. A number of our product candidates are novel compounds, which may further increase the period of time required for satisfactory testing procedures. In July 2009, we received a complete response letter from the FDA regarding the NDA for cethromycin for the outpatient treatment of adults with CABP. In its letter, the FDA indicated that they cannot approve the application for cethromycin in its current form and that, to gain approval, additional clinical data is required to demonstrate efficacy. In August 2010, we reached an agreement with the FDA, under the SPA process, on the design of our planned Phase III study of cethromycin to treat CABP. The cost to complete the SPA is significant. In order to advance the CABP program, we are seeking a commercial partner to assist in the funding of the program. Because we are heavily dependent on our license agreement with Abbott Laboratories and our collaborations with other third parties, our product development programs may be delayed or terminated by factors beyond our control. In December 2004, we entered into a license agreement with Abbott Laboratories for certain patent applications, patents and proprietary technology relating to cethromycin. We have also entered into a number of license agreements for intellectual property and other rights needed to develop our product candidates that are in earlier stages of development. Our primary collaborators other than Abbott Laboratories include the University of Illinois at Chicago and Baxter International. A description of our agreements with collaborators can be found under the headings "Business—Abbott Laboratories Collaboration" and "Business—Other Collaborations and License Agreements." Our collaborations generally present additional risks to our business, such as the risk that our collaborators encounter conflicts of interest to their arrangements with us, inadequately defend our intellectual property rights or develop other products that compete with us. Our ability to generate any significant product revenues in the near future will depend solely on the successful commercialization of cethromycin. If for any reason we are unable to realize the expected benefits of our license agreement with Abbott Laboratories, or under any of our other collaborations, then our business and financial condition may be materially harmed. Our collaborators and third party manufacturers may not be able to manufacture our product candidates, which would prevent us from commercializing our product candidates. To date, each of our product candidates has been manufactured by our collaborators and third party manufacturers for preclinical and clinical trials. If any of our product candidates is approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies for commercial sale, we will need third parties to manufacture the product in larger quantities. Due to factors beyond our control, our collaborators and third party 19 Table of Contents manufacturers may not be able to increase their manufacturing capacity for any of our product candidates in a timely or economic manner, or at all. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may require additional validation studies, which the FDA must review and approve. If we are unable to increase the manufacturing capacity for a product candidate successfully, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of that product candidate may be delayed or there may be a shortage in the supply of the product candidate. Our product candidates require precise, high-quality manufacturing. The failure of our collaborators and third party manufacturers to achieve and maintain these high manufacturing standards, including the incidence of manufacturing errors, could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously harm our business. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to sell and market any products we may develop, we may be unable to generate revenues. We do not currently have product sales and marketing capabilities. If we receive regulatory approval to commence commercial sales of any of our product candidates, we will have to establish a sales and marketing organization with appropriate technical expertise and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services in other jurisdictions. If we receive approval to commercialize cethromycin for the treatment of CABP, we intend to engage additional pharmaceutical or health care companies with existing distribution systems and direct sales organizations to assist us in North America and abroad. We may not be able to negotiate favorable distribution partnering arrangements, if at all, and to the extent we enter co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, any revenues we receive will depend on the efforts of third parties and will not be under our control. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, our ability to generate product revenues, and become profitable, would be severely limited. Our ability to generate any significant revenues in the near-term is dependent entirely on the successful commercialization and market acceptance of cethromycin. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize cethromycin or other product candidates without strategic partners or licensees include: •difficulty recruiting and retaining adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; •the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to, or persuade adequate numbers of, physicians to prescribe our products; •the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage against companies with broader product lines; and •unforeseen costs associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization. Our most advanced product candidate, cethromycin, will face significant competition in the marketplace if it receives marketing approval from the FDA. Our pivotal Phase III clinical trials for cethromycin were limited to the treatment of mild-to-moderate CABP. We also intend to pursue opportunities for cethromycin in the treatment of other types of bacterial infections. There are several classes of antibiotics that are primary competitors for the treatment of one or more of these indications, including: •macrolides such as Biaxin® (clarithromycin), a product of Abbott Laboratories; and Zithromax® (azithromycin), a product of Pfizer Inc.; •one other ketolide antibiotic, Ketek® (telithromycin), a product of Aventis Pharmaceuticals; •semi-synthetic penicillins such as Augmentin® (amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium), a product of GlaxoSmithKline; 20 Table of Contents •fluoroquinolones such as Levaquin® (levofloxacin), a product of Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical, Inc.; Tequin® (gatifloxacin), a product of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company; FACTIVE® (gemifloxacin mesylate) tablets, a product of Oscient Pharmaceuticals; and Cipro® (ciprofloxacin) and Avelox® (moxifloxacin), both products of Bayer Corporation; •tetracyclines such as Tygacil® (tigecycline), a product of Pfizer to treat in-patient CABP; and •an oxazolidinone, Zyvox® (linezolid), a product of Pfizer, to treat nosocomial pneumonia. Cethromycin may show evidence of side effects that could diminish its prospects for commercialization and wide market acceptance. If cethromycin is approved by the FDA, it will not be the first ketolide antibiotic introduced to the marketplace. Ketek® has been available for sale in Europe since 2002 and in the United States since August 2004. There are additional ketolide product candidates in preclinical development or in clinical development. If ultimately approved by the FDA, these product candidates may have improved efficacy, ease of administration or more favorable side effect profiles when compared to cethromycin. The availability of additional ketolide antibiotics may have an adverse affect on our ability to generate product revenues and achieve profitability. Our inability to expand cethromycin into other indications would harm our ability to generate additional revenues in the future. Abbott Laboratories conducted four pivotal Phase III comparator trials for cethromycin in treating bronchitis and pharyngitis at a dosing level of 150 mg once-daily. Each of these trials failed to establish non-inferiority against comparator antibiotics. While we believe that the negative outcomes of the Abbott Laboratories comparator trials were related to dosing levels, we may be incorrect. The failure to meet primary endpoints in the Abbott Laboratories trials may not have been dose related, but rather a result of the compound's lack of sufficient clinical efficacy. Clinical trials using a 300 mg once-daily regimen are also likely to increase the occurrence of adverse side effects. Even if we receive FDA approval to market cethromycin for the treatment of CABP, our failure to expand cethromycin into other indications would harm our ability to generate additional revenues in the future. The availability of generic equivalents may adversely affect our ability to generate product revenues from cethromycin. Many generic antibiotics are currently prescribed to treat respiratory tract infections. As competitive products lose patent protection, makers of generic drugs will likely begin to market additional competing products. Companies that produce generic equivalents are generally able to offer their products at lower prices. Ketek® may lose patent protection as early as 2015, which would enable generic drug manufacturers to sell generic ketolide antibiotics at a lower cost than cethromycin. Generic equivalents of Biaxin® and Zithromax®, two macrolide antibiotic products, are currently available. Cethromycin, if approved for commercial sale, may be at a competitive disadvantage because of its higher cost relative to generic products. This may have an adverse effect on our ability to generate product revenues from cethromycin. Even if we successfully develop and obtain approval for cethromycin or any of our other product candidates, our business will not be profitable if those products do not achieve and maintain market acceptance. Even if any of our product candidates are approved for commercial sale by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, the degree of market acceptance of any approved product candidate by physicians, healthcare professionals, patients and third-party payors, and our resulting profitability and growth, will depend on a number of factors, including: •our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; •relative convenience and ease of administration; •the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects; 21 Table of Contents •the availability of alternative treatments; •the details of FDA labeling requirements, including the scope of approved indications and any safety warnings; •pricing and cost effectiveness; •the effectiveness of our or our collaborators' sales and marketing strategy; •our ability to obtain sufficient third-party insurance coverage or reimbursement; and •our ability to have the product listed on insurance company formularies. If any of our product candidates achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to maintain that market acceptance over time if new products or technologies are introduced that are received more favorably or are more cost effective. Complications may also arise, such as antibiotic or viral resistance, that render our products obsolete. We rely on the favorable resistance profile of cethromycin observed to be a potential competitive distinction from currently marketed compounds. Even if we receive FDA approval to market cethromycin, resistance may emerge that will substantially harm our ability to generate revenues from its sale. We are initially seeking FDA approval for cethromycin as a seven-day treatment regimen. There are currently a number of antibiotic products that are marketed as five-day therapies. In the event that the marketplace considers this to be a significant competitive distinction, it is uncertain whether we will be able to make cethromycin available for a lower dosing period. In addition, we expect that cethromycin, if approved for sale, would be used primarily in the outpatient setting. Because the results of preclinical studies for our preclinical product candidates are not necessarily predictive of future results, our product candidates may not have favorable results in later clinical trials or ultimately receive regulatory approval. Only one product candidate in our development pipeline, cethromycin, has been tested in clinical trials. Our other product candidates have only been through preclinical studies. Positive results from preclinical studies, particularly in vitro studies, are no assurance that later clinical trials will succeed. Preclinical trials are not designed to establish the clinical efficacy of our preclinical product candidates. We will be required to demonstrate through clinical trials that these product candidates are safe and effective for use before we can seek regulatory approvals for their commercial sale. There is typically an extremely high rate of failure as product candidates proceed through clinical trials. If our product candidates fail to demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy in any clinical trial, we would experience potentially significant delays in, or be required to abandon, development of that product candidate. This would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and may damage our reputation in the industry and in the investment community. The future clinical testing of our product candidates could be delayed, resulting in increased costs to us and a delay in our ability to generate revenues. Our product candidates will require preclinical testing and extensive clinical trials prior to submitting a regulatory application for commercial sales. We do not know whether clinical trials will begin on time, if at all. Delays in the commencement of clinical testing could significantly increase our product development costs and delay product commercialization. In addition, many of the factors that may cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. Each of these results would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. The commencement of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in: •demonstrating sufficient safety to obtain regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; •reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations and trial sites; 22 Table of Contents •manufacturing sufficient quantities of a product candidate; and •obtaining institutional review board approvals to conduct clinical trials at prospective sites. In addition, the commencement of clinical trials may be delayed due to insufficient patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. If we are unable to enroll a sufficient number of microbiologically evaluable patients, the clinical trials for our product candidates could be delayed until sufficient numbers are achieved. If we fail to obtain regulatory approvals in other countries for our product candidates under development, we will not be able to generate revenues in such countries. In order to market our products outside of the United States, we must comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval in the United States. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. The risks involved in the non-U.S. regulatory approval process, as well as the consequences for failing to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, generally include the same considerations as in the United States. A description of U.S. regulatory considerations can be found under the section entitled "—Our business would be materially harmed if we fail to obtain FDA approval of a new drug application for cethromycin." We will face significant competition from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, and our operating results will suffer if we fail to compete effectively. We are a development stage company with 16 employees. Most of our competitors, such as Pfizer, GlaxoSmithKline and Bayer, are large pharmaceutical companies with substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we have. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. Many of the drugs that we are attempting to discover or develop will compete with existing therapies if we receive marketing approval. Because of their significant resources, our competitors may be able to use discovery technologies and techniques, or partnerships with collaborators, in order to develop competing products that are more effective or less costly than the product candidates we develop. This may render our technology or product candidates obsolete and noncompetitive. Academic institutions, government agencies, and other public and private research organizations may seek patent protection with respect to potentially competitive products or technologies and may establish exclusive collaborative or licensing relationships with our competitors. As a company, our only experience in conducting Phase III clinical trials is for our cethromycin development program. Our competitors may succeed in obtaining FDA or other regulatory approvals for product candidates more rapidly than us. Companies that complete clinical trials, obtain required regulatory agency approvals and commence commercial sale of their drugs before we do may achieve a significant competitive advantage, including certain FDA marketing exclusivity rights that would delay or prevent our ability to market certain products. Any approved drugs resulting from our research and development efforts, or from our joint efforts with our existing or future collaborative partners, might not be able to compete successfully with our competitors' existing or future products. 23 Table of Contents Off-label promotion of our products could result in substantial penalties. If any of our product candidates receive marketing approval, we will only be permitted to promote the product for the uses indicated on the label cleared by the FDA. Our pivotal Phase III clinical trials of cethromycin are for the treatment of CABP, although we believe that cethromycin may have other applications in bronchitis, pharyngitis, sinusitis, inhalation anthrax, plague and tularemia, and skin and skin structure infections. If we request additional label indications for cethromycin or our other product candidates, the FDA may deny those requests outright, require extensive clinical data to support any additional indications or impose limitations on the intended use of any approved products as a condition of approval. U.S. Attorneys' offices and other regulators, in addition to the FDA, have recently focused substantial attention on off-label promotional activities and have initiated civil and criminal investigations related to such practices. If it is determined by these or other regulators that we have promoted our products for off-label use, we could be subject to fines, legal proceedings, injunctions or other penalties. If our efforts to obtain rights to new products or product candidates from third parties are not successful, we may not generate product revenues or achieve profitability. Our long-term ability to earn product revenues depends on our ability to identify, through internal research programs, potential product candidates that may be developed into new pharmaceutical products and/or obtain new products or product candidates through licenses from third parties. If our internal research programs do not generate sufficient product candidates, we will need to obtain rights to new products or product candidates from third parties. We may be unable to obtain suitable products or product candidates from third parties for a number of reasons, including: •we may be unable to purchase or license products or product candidates on terms that would allow us to make an appropriate return from resulting products; •competitors may be unwilling to assign or license product or product candidate rights to us; •we may not have access to the capital necessary to purchase or license products or product candidates; or •we may be unable to locate suitable products or product candidates within, or complementary to, our areas of interest. If we are unable to obtain rights to new products or product candidates from third parties, our ability to generate product revenues and achieve profitability may suffer. Because our product candidates and development and collaboration efforts depend on our intellectual property rights, adverse events affecting our intellectual property rights will harm our ability to commercialize products. Our success will depend to a large degree on our own, our licensees' and our licensors' ability to obtain and defend patents for each party's respective technologies and the compounds and other products, if any, resulting from the application of such technologies. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents has emerged to date. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that will be allowed or maintained, after challenge, in our or other companies' patents. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, and we cannot ensure that: •we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications; •we were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; 24 Table of Contents •others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; •any of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; •any patents issued to us or our collaborators will provide a basis for commercially viable products, will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties; •we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or •the patents of others will not have a negative effect on our ability to do business. We are a party to certain in-license agreements that are important to our business, and we generally do not control the prosecution of in-licensed technology. Accordingly, we are unable to exercise the same degree of control over this intellectual property as we exercise over our internally developed technology. Moreover, some of our academic institution licensors, research collaborators and scientific advisors have rights to publish data and information in which we have rights. If we cannot maintain the confidentiality of our technology and other confidential information in connection with our collaborations, then our ability to receive patent protection or protect our proprietary information will be impaired. In addition, some of the technology we have licensed relies on patented inventions developed using U.S. government resources. Under applicable law, the U.S. government has the right to require us to grant a nonexclusive, partially exclusive or exclusive license for such technology to a responsible applicant or applicants, upon terms that are reasonable under the circumstances, if the government determines that such action is necessary. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information and may not adequately protect our intellectual property. We rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, particularly when we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information nor result in the effective assignment to us of intellectual property, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or other breaches of the agreements. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such case we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to seek to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Market acceptance and sales of our product candidates will be severely limited if we cannot arrange for favorable reimbursement policies. Our ability to commercialize any product candidates successfully will depend in part on the extent to which governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations establish reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatments. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Also, the trend toward managed healthcare in the United States, as well as legislative proposals to reform healthcare, control pharmaceutical prices or reduce government insurance programs, may also result in exclusion of our 25 Table of Contents product candidates from reimbursement programs. Because many generic antibiotics are available for the treatment of respiratory tract infections, our ability to list cethromycin on insurance company formularies will depend on its effectiveness compared to lower-cost products. The cost containment measures that health care payors and providers are instituting, and the effect of any health care reform, could materially and adversely affect our ability to earn revenues from the sales of cethromycin and our other product candidates. Healthcare law and policy changes, based on recently enacted legislation, may have an adverse effect on us. Healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. In March 2010, President Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or, collectively, the Healthcare Reform Act. This law substantially changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry. The Healthcare Reform Act contains a number of provisions that are expected to impact our business and operations, including provisions governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement and discount programs and fraud and abuse prevention and control, which will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs, including Medicare payment for performance initiatives and improvements to the physician quality reporting system and feedback program. We anticipate that if we obtain approval for our product candidates, some of our revenue and the revenue from our collaborators may be derived from U.S. government healthcare programs, including Medicare. Additionally, in 2009, the Department of Defense implemented a program pursuant to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 that requires rebates, based on Federal statutory pricing, from manufacturers of innovator drugs and biologics. Furthermore, beginning in 2011, the Healthcare Reform Act imposes a non-deductible fee treated as an excise tax on pharmaceutical manufacturers or importers who sell "branded prescription drugs," which includes innovator drugs and biologics (excluding certain orphan drugs, generics and over-the-counter drugs) to U.S. government programs. We expect that the Healthcare Reform Act and other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future could have an adverse effect on our industry generally and our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates or could limit or eliminate our spending on development projects. In addition to this legislation, there will continue to be proposals by legislators at both the federal and state levels, regulators and third-party payors to keep these costs down while expanding individual healthcare benefits. Certain of these changes could impose limitations on the prices we will be able to charge for any product candidates that are approved or the amounts of reimbursement available for these products from governmental agencies or third-party payors, or may increase the tax obligations on life sciences companies such as ours. While it is too early to predict specifically what effect the Health Reform Act and its implementation or any future legislation or policies will have on our business, we believe that healthcare reform may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may encounter difficulties managing our growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are currently a development stage company with 16 employees. We will need to expand and effectively manage our managerial, operational, financial and other resources in order to successfully pursue our research, development and commercialization effort. To manage any growth, we will be required to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. We may be unable to successfully manage the expansion of our operations or operate on a larger scale and, accordingly, may not achieve our research, development and commercialization goals. 26 Table of Contents If we are unable to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and key management personnel, or if any of our key executives, Michael T. Flavin, Ph.D., Ze-Qi Xu, Ph.D., or John L. Flavin, discontinues their employment with us, it may delay our research and development efforts. We are highly dependent upon the efforts of our senior management team and scientific staff. The loss of the services of one or more members of the senior management team might impede the achievement of our development objectives. In particular, we are highly dependent upon and our business would be significantly harmed if we lost the services of Michael T. Flavin, Ph.D., our founder and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Ze-Qi Xu, Ph.D., our Executive Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer, or John L. Flavin, our President and Chief Financial Officer. We do not currently have any key man life insurance policies. We have entered into employment agreements with members of our senior management team, but this does not ensure that we will retain their services for any period of time in the future. Our research and drug discovery programs also depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled chemists, biologists and preclinical and clinical personnel. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified scientific personnel in the future due to intense competition among biotechnology and pharmaceutical businesses, particularly in the Chicago area. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our research and development objectives and our ability to meet the demands of our collaborators in a timely fashion. Our business will expose us to potential product liability risks and there can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire and maintain sufficient insurance to provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Our business will expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials also exposes us to the possibility of product liability claims and possible adverse publicity. These risks will increase to the extent our product candidates receive regulatory approval and are commercialized. We do not currently have any product liability insurance, although we plan to obtain product liability insurance in connection with future clinical trials of our product candidates. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain any such insurance on acceptable terms. Moreover, our product liability insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. On occasion, juries have awarded large judgments in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us would decrease our cash reserves and could cause our stock price to fall significantly. We face regulation and risks related to hazardous materials and environmental laws, violations of which may subject us to claims for damages or fines that could materially affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages or fines that result, and the liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations or with the conditions attached to our operating licenses, the licenses could be revoked, and we could be subjected to criminal sanctions and substantial liability or be required to suspend or modify our operations. In addition, we may have to incur significant costs to comply with future environmental laws and regulations. We do not currently have a pollution and remediation insurance policy. 27 Table of Contents Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication and electrical failures. Our drug discovery and preclinical testing systems are highly technical and proprietary. Any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption of our drug discovery programs. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we may incur liability as a result, our drug discovery programs may be adversely affected and the further development of our product candidates may be delayed. In addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock price has been highly volatile, and your investment could suffer a decline in value. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile since we completed our initial public offering in August 2005. The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors and events, including but not limited to: •the progress of our cethromycin development program and the timing and results from our other clinical trial programs, including the initiation and completion of Phase I clinical trials for ALS-886 and ALS-357; •the in-licensing or acquisition of additional product candidates; •the loss of licenses or proprietary rights to technologies and products; •FDA or international regulatory actions; •failure of any of our product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; •announcements of new products by our competitors; •market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; •litigation or public concern about the safety of our potential products; •comments by securities analysts; •actual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; •deviations in our operating results from the estimates of securities analysts; •rumors relating to us or our competitors; •public concern as to the efficacy or safety of new technologies; •third party reimbursement policies; •developments concerning current or future collaborations, including disputes or termination events and the achievement, timing and accounting treatment of milestone payments; and •the addition or termination of research programs or funding support. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class 28 Table of Contents action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit and the time and attention of our management may be diverted. There are substantial risks associated with the Investment Agreement with Dutchess Opportunity Fund, II, LP which could contribute to the decline of our stock price and have a dilutive impact on our existing stockholders. In order to obtain needed capital, we entered into an Investment Agreement with Dutchess, dated as of January 18, 2011. The sale of shares of our common stock pursuant to the Investment Agreement will have a dilutive impact on our stockholders. Dutchess is not restricted in its ability to re-sell the shares we issue to them, and any such re-sales could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. To the extent of any such decline, any subsequent advances would require us to issue a greater number of shares of common stock to Dutchess in exchange for each dollar of the advance. Under these circumstances our existing stockholders would experience greater dilution. The sale of our common stock under the Investment Agreement could encourage short sales by third parties, which could contribute to the further decline of our stock price. Through March 23, 2011 we have issued 47,403,618 shares to Dutchess, including 2,475,248 shares as a commitment fee, and received proceeds of approximately $0.7 million. Based on the last reported share price of our common stock on March 21, 2011, we would be able to raise approximately an additional $0.3 million through the use of the Dutchess Agreement. Because our common stock is not listed on a securities exchange, you may have difficulty trading our securities and our securities may trade at a lower market price than they otherwise would. Since being delisted from Nasdaq, trading in our common stock is conducted on the OTC Bulletin Board and in the over-the-counter market in the so-called "pink sheets." Because of this, you may not be able to sell as many securities as you desire, you may experience delays in the execution of your transactions and our securities may trade at a lower market price than they otherwise would. In addition, our securities could become subject to the SEC's "penny stock rules." These rules would impose additional requirements on broker-dealers who effect trades in our securities, other than trades with their established customers and accredited investors. Consequently, the delisting of our securities and the applicability of the penny stock rules may adversely affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities, which may adversely affect your ability to resell our securities. The delisting of our securities from Nasdaq could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by employees and others, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development and commercial partnership opportunities. We have a significant number of outstanding warrants, and future sales of the underlying shares could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of March 23, 2011, we had outstanding warrants exercisable for an aggregate of approximately 81.3 million shares of common stock. Of our total outstanding warrants, warrants representing the right to purchase approximately 74.1 million shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.042 per share were sold as part of the public equity offering completed on July 7, 2010 and warrants representing the right to purchase approximately 1.5 million shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.0672 per share were issued to the placement agent in connection with the public equity offering completed on July 7, 2010. Additionally, warrants representing the right to purchase 0.5 million shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.042 per share were issued to our lender in connection with an amendment to our credit facility on September 9, 2010. The remaining approximately 5.2 million in outstanding warrants have a weighted average exercise price of $2.14 per share. The holders may sell shares of common stock underlying the warrants in the public markets from 29 Table of Contents time to time, without limitations on the timing, amount or method of sale. The sale of a significant number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and impair our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional equity securities. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has significant voting control over our company which may delay, prevent or deter corporate actions that may be in the best interest of our stockholders. As of March 23, 2011, Flavin Ventures, LLC controlled approximately 3.0% of our outstanding common stock. Dr. Michael Flavin, our founder and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, has effective voting control for all shares of our common stock held by Flavin Ventures. On July 22, 2010, Dr. Flavin was issued 47,619,047 additional shares of common stock in exchange for the cancellation of certain outstanding indebtedness, as described under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Transactions Update." As a result, as of March 23, 2011, Dr. Flavin beneficially owns approximately 17.8% of our outstanding common stock and will be able to exert significant influence for all matters requiring approval of our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may delay, prevent or deter a change in control of our company even when such a change may be in the best interest of all the stockholders, could deprive stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company or assets and might affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. Provisions of Delaware law or our charter documents could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and could make it more difficult for you to change management. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. This is because these provisions may prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to replace or remove our current management or members of our Board of Directors. These provisions include: •a classified Board of Directors under which approximately one third of the directors will be elected each year; •a requirement that the authorized number of directors to be changed only by a resolution of the Board of Directors; •authorized and unissued additional shares of our common stock and preferred stock; •advance notice requirements for proposals that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; and •a requirement that only our Chairman or our Board of Directors, acting by resolution, may call stockholder meetings. As a result, these provisions and others available under Delaware law could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 30 Table of Contents We have never paid cash dividends on our capital stock and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of any future debt or credit facility may preclude us from paying any dividends. Capital appreciation of our common stock, if any, will be your sole source of potential gain for the foreseeable future. Consequently, in the foreseeable future, you will only experience a gain from your investment in our common stock if the price of our common stock increases. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 