D. RISK FACTORS The following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate to the securities market and ownership of our common stock. If any of the circumstances or events described below actually arises or occurs, our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends could be materially adversely affected. In any such case, the market price of our common shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Industry Specific Risk Factors Charter rates for products tankers and container vessels are at historically high levels and may decrease in the future, which may adversely affect our earnings. If the shipping industry, which has been highly cyclical, is depressed in the future when our charters expire or at a time when we may want to sell a vessel, our earnings and available cash flow may be adversely affected. Our ability to re-charter our vessels on the expiration or termination of our current charters, the charter rates payable under any replacement charters and vessel values will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the products tanker and container vessel markets at that time, changes in the supply and demand for vessel capacity and changes in the supply and demand for oil and oil products and container transportation. Factors beyond our control may adversely affect the demand for and value of our vessels. The factors affecting the supply and demand for products tankers and container vessels are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. The factors that influence the demand for vessel capacity include: o demand for oil and oil products; o changes in oil production and refining capacity; o the globalization of manufacturing; o global and regional economic and political conditions; o developments in international trade; o changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances over which cargoes are transported; o environmental and other regulatory developments; o currency exchange rates; and o weather. The factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: o the number of newbuilding deliveries; o the scrapping rate of older vessels; o the number of vessels that are out of service; and o port or canal congestion. If the number of new ships delivered exceeds the number of vessels being scrapped and lost, vessel capacity will increase. If the supply of vessel capacity increases but the demand for vessel capacity does not increase correspondingly, charter rates and vessel values could materially decline. The value of our vessels may fluctuate, adversely affecting our liquidity and causing us to breach our new credit facility. Vessel values can fluctuate substantially over time due to a number of different factors, including: o general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; o competition from other shipping companies; o the types and sizes of available vessels; o the availability of other modes of transportation; o increases in the supply of vessel capacity; o the cost of newbuildings; o prevailing charter rates; and o the cost of retrofitting or modifying second-hand vessels, as a result of charterer requirements, technological advances in vessel design or equipment, changes in applicable environmental or other regulations or standards, or otherwise. In addition, as vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. Due to the cyclical nature of the products tanker and container vessel markets, if for any reason we sell vessels at a time when prices have fallen, we could incur a loss and our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends could be adversely affected. The market value of our vessels, which are currently at high levels, may decline, which could lead to a default under our loan agreements and the loss of our vessels. If the market value of our fleet declines, we may not be in compliance with certain provisions of our new credit facility and we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing. If we are unable to pledge additional collateral, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our fleet. For instance, if the market value of our fleet declines below 140% of the aggregate outstanding principal balance of our borrowings under our new credit facility, we will not be in compliance with certain provisions of our new credit facility and, as a result, we will not be able to pay dividends and may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the form of international conventions and treaties, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of our vessels. These requirements include, but are not limited to, the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the IMO International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution of 1973, the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966 and the U.S. Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards, where applicable, may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes and may affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels. We may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including, but not limited to, costs relating to air emissions, the management of ballast waters, maintenance and inspection, elimination of tin-based paint, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of our ability to address pollution incidents. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Some environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Under OPA, for example, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. An oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties, criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages under other federal, state and local laws, as well as third-party damages. We are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. Although we have arranged insurance to cover certain environmental risks, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be sufficient to cover all such risks or that any claims will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. The shipping industry has inherent operational risks that could negatively impact our results of operations. Our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather, mechanical failures, human error, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. All these hazards can result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, delay or rerouting. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to pay drydocking costs that our insurance does not cover in full. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. If one of our vessels were involved in an accident with the potential risk of environmental contamination, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover our losses. We carry insurance to protect us against most of the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of our business, including marine hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes pollution risks, crew insurance, war risk insurance and off-hire insurance. However, we may not be adequately insured to cover losses from our operational risks, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, our insurers may refuse to pay particular claims and our insurance may be voidable by the insurers if we take, or fail to take, certain action, such as failing to maintain certification of our vessels with applicable maritime regulatory organizations. Any significant uninsured or under-insured loss or liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. In addition, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates in the future during adverse insurance market conditions. Because we obtain some of our insurance through protection and indemnity associations, we may also be subject to calls in amounts based not only on our own claim records, but also the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations. We may be subject to calls in amounts based not only on our claim records but also the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive insurance coverage for tort liability, including pollution-related liability. Our payment of these calls could result in significant expense to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Labor interruptions could disrupt our business. Our vessels are manned by masters, officers and crews that are employed by third parties. If not resolved in a timely and cost-effective manner, industrial action or other labor unrest could prevent or hinder our operations from being carried out normally and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay a significant amount of money to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the "sister ship" theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel that is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert "sister ship" liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another vessel in our fleet. Increased inspection procedures, tighter import and export controls and new security regulations could increase costs and cause disruption of our container shipping business. International container shipping is subject to security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin, destination and trans-shipment points. These security procedures can result in cargo seizure, delays in the loading, offloading, trans-shipment, or delivery of containers and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against exporters or importers and, in some cases, carriers. Since the events of September 11, 2001, U.S. authorities have more than doubled container inspection rates to approximately 5% of all imported containers. Government investment in non-intrusive container scanning technology has grown, and there is interest in electronic monitoring technology, including so-called "e-seals" and "smart" containers that would enable remote, centralized monitoring of containers during shipment to identify tampering with or opening of the containers, along with potentially measuring other characteristics such as temperature, air pressure, motion, chemicals, biological agents and radiation. It is unclear what changes, if any, to the existing security procedures will ultimately be proposed or implemented, or how any such changes will affect the container shipping industry. These changes have the potential to impose additional financial and legal obligations on carriers and, in certain cases, to render the shipment of certain types of goods by container uneconomical or impractical. These additional costs could reduce the volume of goods shipped in containers, resulting in a decreased demand for container vessels. In addition, it is unclear what financial costs any new security procedures might create for container vessel owners, or whether carrier companies may seek to pass on certain of the costs associated with any new security procedures to vessel owners. Any additional costs or a decrease in container volumes could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency without adequate compensation. A government could requisition or seize our vessels. Under requisition for title, a government takes control of a vessel and becomes its owner. Under requisition for hire, a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes its charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Terrorist attacks and international hostilities can affect the shipping industry, which could adversely affect our business. Terrorist attacks like those of September 11, 2001 or war or international hostilities, including those currently underway in Iraq and the Middle East, could adversely affect the world economy, the availability of and demand for crude oil and petroleum products and the charter rates in the products tanker and container vessel markets. Terrorist attacks, such as the attack on the M/T Limburg in October 2002, could also adversely affect our operations and directly impact our vessels or our charterers. We conduct our operations outside of the United States, and our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected by changing economic, political and government conditions in the countries and regions where our vessels are employed or registered. Moreover, we operate in a sector of the economy that is likely to be adversely impacted by the effects of political instability, terrorist or other attacks, war or international hostilities. Company Specific Risk Factors We cannot assure you that we will pay dividends. We will make dividend payments to our shareholders only if our board of directors, acting in its sole discretion, determines that such payments would be in our best interest and in compliance with relevant legal and contractual requirements. The principal business factors that our board of directors expects to consider when determining the timing and amount of dividend payments will be our earnings, financial condition and cash requirements at the time. Currently, the principal contractual and legal restrictions on our ability to make dividend payments are those contained in our new senior secured credit agreement and those created by Bermuda law. Our new credit facility prohibits us from paying a dividend if an event of default under the credit agreement is continuing or would result from the payment of the dividend. Our new credit facility further requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and minimum liquidity and working capital amounts. Our obligations pursuant to these and other terms of our new credit facility could prevent us from making dividend payment, under certain circumstances. Under Bermuda law, we may not declare or pay dividends if there are reasonable grounds for believing that (1) we are, or would after the payment be, unable to pay our liabilities as they become due or (2) the realizable value of our assets would thereby be less than the sum of our liabilities, our issued share capital (the total par value of all outstanding shares) and share premium accounts (the aggregate amount paid for the subscription for our shares in excess of the aggregate par value of such shares). Consequently, events beyond our control, such as a reduction in the realizable value of our assets, could cause us to be unable to make dividend payments. We may incur other expenses or liabilities that would reduce or eliminate the cash available for distribution as dividends. We may also enter into new agreements or new legal provisions may be adopted that will restrict our ability to pay dividends. As a result, we cannot assure you that dividends will be paid with the frequency set forth in this Annual Report or at all. Our historical financial and operating data may not be representative of our future results because we have a limited operating history as a stand-alone entity or as a publicly traded company. Our historical financial and operating data may not be representative of our future results because we are a newly formed company with limited operating history as a stand-alone entity or as a publicly traded company. Our combined financial statements included in this document have been carved out of the consolidated financial statements of Aries Energy Corporation, or Aries Energy, a private company which owned and operated two products tankers during the period from March 2003 to December 31, 2003 and seven products tankers and five container vessels during the year ended December 31, 2004. Consistent with shipping industry practice, we have not obtained, nor do we present in this document, historical operating data for our vessels prior to their acquisition. Although our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition reflected in our combined financial statements include all expenses allocable to our business, due to factors such as the additional administrative and financial obligations associated with operating as a publicly traded company, they may not be indicative of the results of operations that we would have achieved had we operated as a public entity for all periods presented or of future results that we may achieve as a publicly traded company with our current holding company structure. We depend upon a few significant charterers for a large part of our revenues. The loss of one or more of these charterers could adversely affect our financial performance. We have historically derived a significant part of our revenue from a small number of charterers. During 2005, all of our revenue was derived from seven charterers, PDVSA Petroleo, S. A., d'Amico Societa di Navigazione, ST Shipping and Transportation Inc., Deiulemar Compagnia di Navigazione S.p.A, CMA CGM S.A., China Shipping Container Lines (Asia) Co. Ltd. and Navigazione Montanari S.p.A. During April 2006, the charters with d'Amico Societa di Navigazione were terminated and the respective vessels were chartered to Trafigura Beheer B.V. In addition, we took delivery of two newbuilding vessels which we bareboat chartered to companies of the Stena Group, thus increasing the number of our charterers to nine. If we were to lose any of these charterers, or if any of these charterers significantly reduced its use of our services or was unable to make charter payments to us, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our charterers may terminate or default on their charters, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Our charters may terminate earlier than the dates indicated in the section "Our Fleet" in "Item 4. Information on the Company". The terms of our charters vary as to which events or occurrences will cause a charter to terminate or give the charterer the option to terminate the charter, but these generally include a total or constructive total loss of the related vessel, the requisition for hire of the related vessel or the failure of the related vessel to meet specified performance criteria. In addition, the ability of each of our charterers to perform its obligations under a charter will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control. These factors may include general economic conditions, the condition of a specific shipping market sector, the charter rates received for specific types of vessels and various operating expenses. The costs and delays associated with the default by a charterer of a vessel may be considerable and may adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. We cannot predict whether our charterers will, upon the expiration of their charters, recharter our vessels on favorable terms or at all. If our charterers decide not to re-charter our vessels, we may not be able to recharter them on terms similar to the terms of our current charters or at all. In the future, we may also employ our vessels on the spot charter market, which is subject to greater rate fluctuation than the time charter market. If we receive lower charter rates under replacement charters or are unable to recharter all of our vessels, the amounts available, if any, to pay dividends to our shareholders may be significantly reduced or eliminated. Servicing our debt will substantially limit our funds available for other purposes, such as vessel acquisitions and the payment of dividends. We intend to finance future vessel acquisitions through borrowings under our new credit facility. A large part of our cash from operations may be required to pay principal and interest on that debt. Our debt service payments will reduce our funds available for other purposes, including those that may be in the best interests of our shareholders. We cannot assure you that our future cash flows will be adequate to fund future vessel acquisitions or to pay dividends. Our new credit facility imposes significant operating and financial restrictions. Our new credit facility requires us to adhere to certain financial covenants as of the end of each fiscal quarter, including the following: o our shareholders' equity as a percentage of our total assets, adjusting the book value of our fleet to its market value, must be no less than 35%; o we must maintain free cash and cash equivalents of no less than 5% of interest bearing debt; o our current liabilities, excluding deferred revenue, may not exceed our current assets; o the ratio of EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) to interest expense must be no less than 3.00 to 1.00 on a trailing four quarter basis; and o the aggregate fair market value of our vessels must be no less than 140% of the aggregate outstanding loans under the credit facility. In addition, Magnus Carriers is required to maintain a credit balance in an account opened with the lender of at least $1 million. The credit agreement also requires our two principal beneficial equity holders to maintain a beneficial ownership interest in our company of no less than 10% each. Our credit agreement prevents us from declaring dividends if any event of default, as defined in the credit agreement, occurs or would result from such declaration. Each of the following will be an event of default under the credit agreement: o the failure to pay principal, interest, fees, expenses or other amounts when due; o breach of certain financial covenants, including those which require Magnus Carriers to maintain a minimum cash balance; o the failure of any representation or warranty to be materially correct; o the occurrence of a material adverse change (as defined in the credit agreement); o the failure of the security documents or guarantees to be effective; o judgments against us or any of our subsidiaries in excess of certain amounts; o bankruptcy or insolvency events; and o the failure of our principal beneficial equity holders to maintain their investment in us. Events beyond our control, including changes in the economic and business conditions in the shipping markets in which we operate, may affect our ability to comply with these covenants. We cannot assure you that we will meet these ratios or satisfy these covenants or that our lenders will waive any failure to do so. A breach of any of the covenants in, or our inability to maintain the required financial ratios under, our new credit facility would prevent us from borrowing additional money under the credit facility and could result in a default under the credit facility. If a default occurs under our credit facility, the lenders could elect to declare the outstanding debt, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against the collateral securing that debt, which could constitute all or substantially all of our assets. Our ability to obtain additional debt financing may depend on the performance of our then existing charters and the creditworthiness of our charterers. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional capital resources that we will require to purchase additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining that capital. Our inability to obtain additional financing or our ability to obtain additional financing at higher than anticipated costs may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. We will depend on Magnus Carriers, a private company, or other management companies to manage and charter our fleet. We have contracted the commercial and technical management of all the vessels in our fleet (with the exception of the Chinook), including crewing, maintenance and repairs to the management company, Magnus Carriers. In addition, we expect that we will need to seek approval from our lenders to change our manager. The loss of Magnus Carriers' services or its failure to perform its obligations under the management agreements could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. Although we may have rights against Magnus Carriers if it defaults on its obligations to us, our shareholders will not directly share that recourse. The ability of Magnus Carriers to continue providing services for our benefit will depend in part on its own financial strength. Circumstances beyond our control could impair Magnus Carriers' financial strength. Because Magnus Carriers is privately held, it is unlikely that information about its financial strength would become public prior to any default by Magnus Carriers under the management agreements. As a result, an investor in our shares might have little advance warning of problems affecting Magnus Carriers, even though those problems could have a material adverse effect on us. Magnus Carriers and its affiliates may acquire or charter vessels that compete with our fleet. Magnus Carriers and affiliates may acquire or charter additional products tankers and container vessels in the future, subject to a right of first refusal that Magnus Carriers, its principals and affiliates under its control have granted to us. If we do not purchase or charter these vessels, they could compete with our fleet, and Magnus Carriers and its affiliates might be faced with conflicts of interest between their own interests and Magnus Carriers' obligations to us under the ship management agreements. We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial and other obligations and to make dividend payments. We are a holding company, and we have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries own all our vessels, and payments under the charters with our charterers are made to our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to satisfy our financial and other obligations and to pay dividends depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, we will not be able to pay dividends unless we obtain funds from other sources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the necessary funds from other sources. We may not be able to grow or effectively manage our growth. A principal focus of our strategy is to grow by expanding our business. Our future growth will depend on a number of factors, some of which we can control and some of which we cannot. These factors include our ability to: o identify vessels for acquisition; o consummate acquisitions; o integrate acquired vessels successfully with our existing operations; and o obtain required financing for our existing and new operations. A deficiency in any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated growth in cash flows or realize other anticipated benefits. In addition, competition from other buyers could reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay a higher price than we might otherwise pay. The process of integrating acquired vessels into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties, may absorb significant management attention and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development and expansion of our existing operations. Future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional indebtedness and liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Further, if we issue additional common shares, your interest in our company will be diluted, and dividends to you, if any, may be reduced. Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain our vessels may increase due to changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards. Changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards, as well as compliance with standards imposed by maritime self-regulatory organizations and customer requirements or competition, may require us to make additional expenditures. In order to satisfy these requirements, we may, from time to time, be required to take our vessels out of service for extended periods of time, with corresponding losses of revenues. In the future, market conditions may not justify these expenditures or enable us to operate some or all of our vessels profitably during the remainder of their economic lives. If we are unable to fund our capital expenditures, we may not be able to continue to operate some of our vessels, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to pay dividends. In order to fund our capital expenditures, we may be required to incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or equity securities. Our ability to access the capital markets through future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such offering as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures would limit our ability to continue to operate some of our vessels and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. Even if we are successful in obtaining such funds through financings, the terms of such financings could further limit our ability to pay dividends. Aries Energy, an affiliate, is able to control our company, including the outcome of shareholder votes through its wholly owned indirect subsidiary, Rocket Marine Inc. Aries Energy, an affiliate, owns approximately 52% of our outstanding common shares. As a result of this share ownership and for so long as Aries Energy owns a significant percentage of our outstanding common shares, Aries Energy will be able to control or influence the outcome of any shareholder vote, including the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our memorandum of association or bye-laws and possible mergers, amalgamations, corporate control contests and other significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, merger, amalgamation, consolidation, takeover or other business combination. This concentration of ownership could also discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which could in turn have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. Exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations will result in fluctuations in our cash flows and operating results. We generate all our revenues in U.S. dollars, but our manager, Magnus Carriers, incurs approximately 30% of vessel operating expenses and we incur general and administrative expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. This difference could lead to fluctuations in our vessel operating expenses, which would affect our financial results. Expenses incurred in foreign currencies increase when the value of the U.S. dollar falls, which would reduce our profitability. For example, in the year ended December 31, 2005, the value of the U.S. dollar increased by approximately 13% against the Euro. Our operating results could suffer as a result. Our incorporation under the laws of Bermuda may limit the ability of our shareholders to protect their interests. We are a Bermuda company. Our memorandum of association and bye-laws and the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, or the BCA, as amended, govern our corporate affairs. Investors may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. Under Bermuda law, a director generally owes a fiduciary duty only to the company, not to the company's shareholders. Our shareholders may not have a direct cause of action against our directors. In addition, Bermuda law does not provide a mechanism for our shareholders to bring a class action lawsuit under Bermuda law. Further, our bye-laws provide for the indemnification of our directors or officers against any liability arising out of any act or omission, except for an act or omission constituting fraud or dishonesty. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger, amalgamation or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Several provisions of our bye-laws could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable. These include provisions: o authorizing our board of directors to issue "blank check" preference shares without shareholder approval; o establishing a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; o prohibiting us from engaging in a "business combination" with an "interested shareholder" for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person becomes an interested shareholder unless certain conditions are met; o not permitting cumulative voting in the election of directors; o authorizing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of our outstanding common shares; o limiting the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders to our board of directors, subject to certain rights guaranteed to shareholders under the BCA; and o establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at our shareholder meetings. These provisions could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger, amalgamation or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. It may not be possible for investors to enforce U.S. judgments against us. We and all our subsidiaries are incorporated in jurisdictions outside the U.S. substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries are located outside the U.S. In addition, most of our directors and officers are or will be non-residents of the U.S., and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are or will be located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to serve process within the U.S. upon us, our subsidiaries or our directors and officers or to enforce a judgment against us for civil liabilities in U.S. courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we or our subsidiaries are incorporated or where our or the assets of our subsidiaries are located (1) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our subsidiaries based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws or (2) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or our subsidiaries based on those laws. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a "passive foreign investment company" which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company", or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of "passive income." For purposes of these tests, "passive income" includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income." U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime applicable to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our proposed method of operation, we do not believe that we will be a PFIC. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time chartering activities does not constitute "passive income," and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our proposed method of operation. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders will face adverse and special U.S. tax consequences. Among other things, the distributions a shareholder received with respect to our shares and the gain, if any, a shareholder derived from his sale or other disposition of our shares would be taxable as ordinary income (rather than as qualified dividend income or capital gain, as the case may be), would be treated as realized ratably over his holding period in our common shares, and would be subject to an additional interest charge. However, a U.S. Holder may be able to make certain tax elections with ameliorate these consequences. We may have to pay tax on United States source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as our company and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as U.S. source shipping income and is subject to a 4% United States federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the related Treasury Regulations, which the IRS has adopted and which became effective on January 1, 2005 for calendar year taxpayers such as ourselves and our subsidiaries. We expect that we and each of our subsidiaries qualify for this statutory tax exemption, and we take this position for United States federal income tax reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to United States federal income tax on our United States source income. For example, Aries Energy Corporation, or Aries Energy (through its wholly owned subsidiary Rocket Marine Inc., or Rocket Marine) owns approximately 52% of our outstanding common shares. We are ineligible to qualify for exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year in which Aries Energy alone or together with other shareholders with a 5% or greater interest in our common shares, or the 5% shareholder group, own 50% or more of our outstanding common shares on more than half the days during such taxable year and we are unable to establish in accordance with the Treasury Regulations that within the 5% shareholder group there are sufficient qualified shareholders for purposes of Section 883 to preclude non-qualified shareholders within such group from owning 50% or more of the value of our common stock for more than half the number of days during the taxable year. In order to establish this, qualified shareholders within the 5% shareholder group would have to provide us with certain information in order to substantiate their identity as qualified shareholders. Captain Gabriel Petridis, the 50% beneficial owner of Aries Energy, has agreed to provide us with such information. Notwithstanding this agreement, we may be unable to establish in conformity with the Treasury Regulations that there are sufficient qualified shareholders within the 5% shareholder group to allow us to qualify for exemption under Section 883. Due to the factual nature of the issues involved, we can give no assurances regarding our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to exemption under Section 883 of the Code for any taxable year, the imposition of a 4% U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. source shipping income and that of our subsidiaries could have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock There may not be an active market for our common shares, which may cause our common shares to trade at a discount and make it difficult to sell the common shares you purchase. We cannot assure you that an active trading market for our common shares will be sustained. We cannot assure you of the price at which our common shares will trade in the public market in the future or that the price of our shares in the public market will reflect our actual financial performance. You may not be able to resell your common shares at or above their current market price. Additionally, a lack of liquidity may result in wide bid-ask spreads, contribute to significant fluctuations in the market price of our common shares and limit the number of investors who are able to buy the common shares. The products tanker and container vessel sectors have been highly unpredictable and volatile. The market price of our common shares may be similarly volatile. Future sales of our common shares could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. The market price of our common shares could decline due to sales of a large number of shares in the market, including sales of shares by our large shareholders, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the perception that these sales could occur, could also make it more difficult or impossible for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate to raise funds through future offerings of common shares. Aries Energy owns approximately 52% of our common shares. Aries Energy through Rocket Marine is eligible to sell any of our common shares, directly or indirectly, in the public market following the applicable lock-up period, which expired in December 2005. We have entered into a registration rights agreement with Rocket Marine that entitles it to have all of its remaining shares registered for sale in the public market following the expiration of that restricted period. In addition, these shares could be sold into the public market after one year pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, subject to certain volume, manner of sale and notice requirements. Sales or the possibility of sales of substantial amounts of our common shares by Aries Energy in the public markets could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. 