ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this annual report. If any of the following risks occur, our business could be materially harmed, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. As a result, the price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The demand for our products depends in large part on continued growth in the industries into which they are sold. A decline in the markets served by any of these industries, or a decline in demand for Flash memory products in these industries, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Sales of our Flash memory products are dependent to a large degree upon consumer demand for mobile phones. In fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2007, wireless customers, who primarily consist of mobile phone OEMs represented the largest market for NOR Flash memory. The market research firm iSuppli projects that wireless handset NOR Flash memory will represent approximately 61 percent of all NOR Flash memory sales in 2008, excluding commercial die such as the DRAM that is bundled in our multi-chip packages, or MCPs. In fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, sales to wireless Flash memory customers drove a majority of our sales. 16 Table of Contents Similarly, sales of our products targeting embedded Flash memory customers are dependent upon demand for consumer electronics such as set top boxes, or STBs, and DVD players, automotive electronics, industrial electronics such as networking equipment, personal computers and personal computer peripheral equipment such as printers. Sales of our products are also dependent upon the inclusion of increasing amounts of Flash memory content in some of these products. In fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, sales to embedded Flash memory customers drove a significant portion of our sales. If demand for mobile phones or products in the embedded portion of the integrated category of the Flash memory market, or the Flash memory content of these products, is below our or analysts’ expectations, if the functionality of successive generations of such products does not require increasing Flash memory density or if such products no longer require Flash memory due to alternative technologies or otherwise, our operating results would be materially adversely affected. Our business has been characterized by average selling prices that decline over time, which can negatively affect our results of operations. Historically, average selling prices of our products have decreased during the products’ lives, and we expect this trend to continue. When our average selling prices on existing products decline, our net sales and gross margins also decline unless we are able to compensate by selling more units, reducing our manufacturing costs or introducing and selling new, higher margin products with higher densities and/or advanced features. If average selling prices for our products decline, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. Moreover, during downturns, periods of extremely intense competition, or the presence of oversupply in the industry, average selling prices for our products have declined at a high rate over relatively short time periods as compared to historical rates of decline. For example, during the second quarter of fiscal 2007, our average selling prices decreased by approximately 11 percent compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2007 due to unanticipated intense competitive pricing environments in the Flash memory market that were greater than expected. We are unable to predict average selling prices for any future periods and may experience unanticipated, sharp declines in average selling prices for our products. When such steep pricing declines occur, we may not be able to mitigate the effects by selling more or higher margin units, or by reducing our manufacturing costs. In such circumstances, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. We have lost rights to key intellectual property arrangements because we are no longer a beneficiary of AMD’s patent cross-license agreements and other licenses, which creates a greatly increased risk of patent or other intellectual property infringement claims against us. As a subsidiary of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc (AMD) until our initial public offering in December 2005, we were the beneficiary of AMD’s intellectual property arrangements with third parties, including patent cross-license agreements with other major semiconductor companies such as Intel, Motorola and IBM, and licenses from third parties for technology incorporated in our products and software used to operate our business. As a result of the conversion of the outstanding shares of Class D common stock into shares of Class A common stock in November 2006, we ceased to be a beneficiary under most of the remainder of these license agreements. As a result, we may be subject to claims that we are infringing intellectual property rights of third parties through the manufacture and sale of our products and the operation of our business. Therefore, absent negotiating our own license agreements with the third parties who own such intellectual property, we will be vulnerable to claims by such parties that our products or operations infringe such parties’ patents or other intellectual property rights. We will continue to attempt to negotiate our own agreements and arrangements with third parties for intellectual property and technology that are important to our business, including the intellectual property that we previously had access to through our relationship with AMD. We will also continue to attempt to acquire new patents as our success in negotiating patent cross-license agreements with other industry participants will depend in large part upon the strength of our patent portfolio relative to that of the third party with which we are negotiating. If such third-party benefits from an existing patent cross-license agreement with AMD or Fujitsu 17 Table of Contents Limited (Fujitsu), in many cases such third party will retain the rights that it has under that agreement, including rights to utilize the patents that AMD and Fujitsu transferred to us in connection with our reorganization as Spansion LLC in June 2003. In many cases, third parties also retain such rights to utilize any patents that have been issued to us or acquired by us between the dates of our reorganization in 2003 and our initial public offering in 2005 or, in some cases, between the dates of our reorganization in 2003 and the conversion of the Class D common stock in 2006. Our negotiating position will therefore be impaired, because the other party will already be entitled to utilize a large number of our patents, while we will no longer have the right to utilize that party’s patents. As a result, we may be unable to obtain access to the other party’s patent portfolio on favorable terms or at all. Similarly, with respect to licenses from third parties for technology incorporated in our products or software used to operate our business, we may not be able to negotiate prices with these third parties on terms as favorable to us as those previously available to us because we are not able to take advantage of AMD’s size and purchasing power. These parties, and other third parties with whom AMD had no prior intellectual property arrangement, may file lawsuits against us seeking damages (potentially including treble damages) or an injunction against the sale of our products that incorporate allegedly infringed intellectual property or against the operation of our business as presently conducted. Such litigation could be extremely expensive and time consuming. We cannot assure you that such litigation would be avoided or successfully concluded. The award of damages, including material royalty payments, or the entry of an injunction against the manufacture or sale of some or all of our products, would have a material adverse effect on us. The Flash memory market is highly cyclical and has experienced severe downturns that have materially adversely affected, and may in the future materially adversely affect, our business. The Flash memory market is highly cyclical and has experienced severe downturns, often as a result of wide fluctuations in supply and demand, constant and rapid technological change, continuous new product introductions and price erosion. Our financial performance has been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by these downturns. We have incurred substantial losses in past downturns, due principally to: • substantial declines in average selling prices, particularly due to aggressive pricing by competitors and an imbalance in product supply and demand; • a decline in demand for end-user products that incorporate our products; and • less than expected demand in the distribution channels such as by mobile phone OEMs. For example, during the first quarter of fiscal 2007, our business was adversely affected by a seasonal drop in unit shipments, and during the first nine months of fiscal 2007, our business was adversely affected by a greater than average decline in average selling prices as a result of intense competitive pressures. Our historical financial information does not necessarily indicate what our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows will be in the future. If our net sales decline in the future, or if these or other similar conditions continue or occur again in the future, our business would likely be materially adversely affected. If our expense reduction efforts are not effective, our business could be materially adversely affected. We incurred net losses in each of fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 of approximately $263.5 million, $147.8 million and $304.1 million. As a result, we continue to undertake actions in an effort to significantly reduce our expenses. These actions include the sale of non-performing assets, the consolidation of certain functional operations and other activities related to reducing expenses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve anticipated expense reductions. If our expense reduction efforts are unsuccessful, our operating results may be materially adversely affected. Although we expect that the Saifun acquisition will result in benefits to us, those benefits may not occur because of integration and other challenges. Achieving the expected benefits of the Saifun acquisition will depend on the timely and efficient integration of our and Saifun’s technology, operations, business culture and personnel. This will be particularly challenging 18 Table of Contents due to the fact that Saifun was headquartered in Israel and we are headquartered in California. The integration may not be completed as quickly as expected, and if we fail to effectively integrate the companies or the integration takes longer than expected, we may not achieve the expected benefits of the acquisition. The challenges involved in this integration include, among others: • retaining the licensees and customers of both companies, including licensees and customers of Saifun who may compete with us; • retaining the main sources of supply of both companies; • incorporating Saifun’s technology into our current and future technology and product lines; • integrating Saifun’s sales force into our worldwide sales network; • demonstrating to Saifun’s licensees and customers that the acquisition will not result in adverse changes in pricing, customer service standards or support; • coordinating research and development activities to enhance introduction of new products and technologies; • integrating Saifun’s internal control over financial reporting with our internal control over financial reporting; • migrating Saifun to our information systems; • integrating Saifun’s engineering operations with ours; • persuading the employees of both companies that the companies’ business cultures are compatible; • maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees; • ensuring there are no delays in releasing new products and technologies to market; and • coordinating geographically separate organizations. This integration effort is international in scope, complex, time consuming and expensive, and may disrupt the respective businesses or result in the loss of licensees, customers or key employees or the diversion of the attention of management. In addition, the integration process may strain our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures. This may result in the diversion of management and financial resources from our core business objectives. There can be no assurance that we will successfully integrate Saifun into our business or that we will realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. If we do not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, or if charges and other accounting changes resulting from the acquisition adversely affect our earnings, the acquisition could result in a reduction of our per-share earnings as compared to the per-share earnings that would have been achieved by us if the acquisition had not occurred. Also, if Saifun shareholders promptly sell the Spansion Class A common stock received in the transaction, such sales could cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. If we complete the acquisition of Saifun, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may adversely affect our business. Saifun’s headquarters and business operations are located in Israel, which is affected and surrounded by unstable political, economic and military conditions. We cannot predict the effect of continued or increased violence in Lebanon or Gaza, or the effect of military action elsewhere in the Middle East. Continued armed conflicts or political instability in the region would harm business conditions and could adversely affect the combined company’s results of operations. Furthermore, several countries continue to restrict or ban business with Israel and Israeli companies. These restrictive laws and policies may limit the combined company’s ability to make sales in those countries, and, as a global company, may limit our own ability to efficiently administer our worldwide resources. 19 Table of Contents The proposed acquisition of Saifun may result in a loss of licensees or customers. We and Saifun operate in a highly competitive industry, and the combined company’s future performance will be affected by its ability to retain each company’s existing licensees and customers. Some of Saifun’s licensees and customers are our competitors or work with our competitors and may reduce or terminate their business relationships with Saifun in anticipation of the acquisition or with the combined company as a result of our acquisition of Saifun. We may not realize the expected value of Saifun’s NROM technology. We expect that licensees of Saifun’s NROM technology will continue to implement and expand their uses of the technology. If such licensees fail to successfully implement the NROM technology in a timely manner or in a large number of their products, the value of NROM technology could be diminished. Moreover, if leading Flash memory semiconductor manufacturers adopt and achieve success with other technologies or incorporate Saifun’s NROM technology but fail to achieve success with its products, the value of the NROM technology could be adversely affected. In addition, we cannot assure you that Saifun’s patents, including those covering NROM technology, would not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that rights granted under these patents will provide a competitive advantage to us. If Saifun’s patents are ultimately challenged, invalidated or circumvented, we may be materially adversely affected. Our business may be adversely affected if our acquisition of Saifun is delayed or not completed. Our acquisition of Saifun is subject to several customary conditions, including obtaining clearance from governmental entities. If our acquisition of Saifun is delayed or not consummated, we could be subject to a number of risks that may adversely affect our business, including: • the adverse consequences resulting from our management’s attention having been diverted from our day-to-day business over an extended period of time; • the disruption to our relationships with customers, suppliers and partners as a result of our and their efforts relating to the acquisition; • any consequent potential loss of business to our competitors; • the significant costs and expenses that we may have incurred relating to the acquisition; and • our inability to realize the benefits we expect by acquiring Saifun. We cannot assure you that we will successfully complete our acquisition of Saifun, and any inability to successfully complete, or a delay in completing, the Saifun acquisition could have a material adverse effect on us. A significant market shift to NAND architecture would materially adversely affect us. Flash memory products are generally based on either NOR or NAND architecture. To date, our Flash memory products have been based on NOR architecture which are typically produced at a higher cost-per-bit than NAND-based products. We do not currently manufacture products based on NAND architecture. We have developed our MirrorBit ORNAND, MirrorBit Quad and MirrorBit Eclipse architectures to address certain portions of the integrated category of the Flash memory market served by NAND-based products, but we cannot be certain that our MirrorBit ORNAND-, Quad- or Eclipse- based products will satisfactorily address those market needs. During 2004, industry sales of NAND-based Flash memory products grew at a higher rate than sales of NOR-based Flash memory products, resulting in NAND vendors in aggregate gaining a greater share of the 20 Table of Contents overall Flash memory market and NOR vendors in aggregate losing overall market share. This trend continued in 2005 and 2006 when sales of NAND-based Flash memory products represented a majority of the Flash memory products sold in the Flash memory market. In 2007, according to iSuppli, total sales for the Flash memory market reached approximately $21.8 billion, of which approximately 35 percent was classified as sales of NOR-based Flash memory products and approximately 65 percent was classified as sales of NAND-based Flash memory products. iSuppli estimates that sales of NAND-based Flash memory products grew by approximately 15 percent from 2005 to 2006 and will grow at a 18 percent compound annual growth rate from 2006 to 2011, while sales of NOR-based Flash memory products grew by approximately six percent from 2005 to 2006 and will decline by approximately three percent compound annual growth rate from 2006 to 2011. We expect the Flash memory market trend of decreasing market share for NOR-based Flash memory products relative to NAND-based Flash memory products to continue in the foreseeable future. Moreover, the removable storage category of the Flash memory market, which is predominantly served by floating gate NAND vendors, is expected to constitute a significant portion of the Flash memory market for the foreseeable future. As mobile phones and other consumer electronics become more advanced, they will require higher density Flash memory to meet the increased data storage requirements associated with music downloads, photos and videos. Because storage requirements will increase to accommodate data-intensive applications, OEMs may increasingly choose higher density floating gate NAND-based Flash memory products over MirrorBit NOR-, ORNAND-, Quad- or Eclipse-based Flash memory products for their applications. If this occurs and OEMs continue to prefer the attributes and characteristics of floating gate NAND-based products over those of MirrorBit NOR-, ORNAND-, Quad- or Eclipse-based products for their applications, we may be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, some of our competitors are able to manufacture floating gate NAND-based Flash memory products on 300-millimeter wafers produced in much larger capacity fabs than our SP1 fab or may choose to utilize more advanced manufacturing process technologies than we use today to offer products competitive to ours at a lower cost. If floating gate NAND vendors continue to increase their share of the Flash memory market, our market share may decrease, which would materially adversely affect us. In addition, even if products based on NAND architecture are unsuccessful in displacing products based on NOR architecture, the average selling prices for our products may be adversely affected by a significant decline in the price for NAND-based products. Such a decline may result in downward price pressure in the overall Flash memory market affecting the price we can obtain for our NOR-based products, which would adversely affect us. We believe such downward pricing pressure was a factor in the steep declines in average selling prices in the first half of 2007. If the prices for NAND products do not improve, or continue to decline, we may be materially adversely affected. We have a substantial amount of, and continue to incur, indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial position. We currently have and will continue to have for the foreseeable future, a substantial amount of indebtedness. Our indebtedness has increased over time and may increase in the future. At the time of our initial public offering in December 2005, our aggregate principal amount of outstanding debt was approximately $760.0 million. As of December 30, 2007, we had an aggregate principal amount of approximately $1.4 billion in outstanding debt. In order to advance our business with new technologies, like other semiconductor manufacturers, we are required to make sizable capital investment in facilities and equipment. If cash flow from operations is not sufficient to meet capital requirements, we may need to incur additional indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness may: • require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to make debt service payments; • make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; 21 Table of Contents • limit our ability to use our cash flows, use our available financings to the fullest extent possible, or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and • increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. Financial market conditions may impede access to or increase the cost of financing operations and investments. The recent changes in U.S. and global financial and equity markets, including market disruptions and tightening of the credit markets, may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or increase the cost of obtaining financing. In addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies which are based, in significant part, on our performance as measured by credit metrics such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. A decrease in these ratings could increase our cost of borrowing or make it more difficult for us to obtain financing, which would materially adversely affect us. We are currently party to and intend to enter into debt arrangements in the future, each of which may subject us to restrictive covenants which could limit our ability to operate our business. We are party to a $175.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility that imposes various restrictions and covenants on us that limits our ability to: • enter into any mergers, consolidations or sales of property, or sales of inventory, equipment and assets except in the ordinary course of business; • make any distributions except for distributions from Spansion LLC to us in specified circumstances; • make investments, except for the purchase of inventory, equipment and intellectual property in the ordinary course of business, unless we meet minimum liquidity requirements consisting of availability under the revolving credit facility and domestic cash of at least $200.0 million, provided, however, that investments are limited to no more than a total of $50.0 million while the reduced minimum liquidity requirement is in place; • incur additional debt, enter into capital leases and, in limited cases, make loans to subsidiaries; • engage in transactions with affiliates unless the transactions are in the normal course of business, negotiated at arms-length and disclosed to the agent for the lenders; • incur any new liens except for equipment leases and loans; and • prepay any debt, except that debt of foreign subsidiaries may be prepaid by the applicable foreign subsidiary and we may prepay any debt as long as after such repayment we meet minimum liquidity requirements consisting of availability under the revolving credit facility plus domestic cash of at least $250.0 million. In addition, the indentures governing Spansion LLC’s $250.0 million principal amount of 11.25% Senior Notes due 2016 and Spansion LLC’s $625.0 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Secured Floating Rate Notes due 2013 impose substantially similar restrictions and covenants on us which could limit our ability to respond to market conditions, make capital investments or take advantage of business opportunities. In the future, we will likely incur additional indebtedness through arrangements such as credit agreements or term loans that may also impose similar restrictions and covenants. These restrictions and covenants limit, and 22 Table of Contents any future covenants and restrictions likely will limit, our ability to respond to market conditions, to make capital investments or to take advantage of business opportunities. Any debt arrangements we enter into would likely require us to make regular interest payments, which would adversely affect our results of operations. As of December 30, 2007, we were in compliance with the financial covenants under our debt instruments. However, we cannot assure you that in the future we will be able to satisfy the covenants, financial tests and ratios of our debt instruments, which can be affected by events beyond our control. If we fail to comply with such covenants, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain waivers for any future failures to comply with our financial covenants, or amendments which will prevent a failure to comply in the future. A breach of any of the covenants, financial tests or ratios under our debt instruments could result in a default under the applicable agreement, which in turn could trigger cross-defaults under our other debt instruments, any of which would materially adversely affect us. If we cannot generate sufficient operating cash flows and obtain external financing, we may be unable to make all of our planned capital expenditures. Our ability to fund anticipated capital expenditures depends on generating sufficient cash flows from operations and the continued availability of external financing. We expect our total capital expenditures for fiscal 2008 to be approximately $535.0 million. Our capital expenditures, together with ongoing operating expenses, will be a substantial drain on our cash flows and may decrease our cash balances. The timing and amount of our capital requirements cannot be precisely determined at this time and will depend on a number of factors, including demand for our products, product mix, changes in industry conditions and market competition. We may assess markets for external financing opportunities, including debt and equity. Such financing may not be available when needed or, if available, may not be available on satisfactory terms. Moreover, the funds availability under our existing $175.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility may be adversely affected by our financial condition, results of operations and incurrence or maintenance of additional debt, such as our 11.25% Senior Notes due 2016 and our 2.25% Exchangeable Senior Secured Debentures. Also, funds availability under the Spansion Japan 2007 Credit Facility are based on capital deliveries, which may not be made in a timely manner, to SP1, our Flash memory manufacturing facility in Aizu-Wakamatsu, Japan. Finally, any equity financing may not be desirable because of resulting dilution to our stockholders. Our inability to obtain needed financing or to generate sufficient cash from operations may require us to abandon projects or curtail capital expenditures. If we cannot generate sufficient operating cash flows or obtain external financing, we may be delayed in achieving, or may not achieve, needed manufacturing capacity, and we could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to timely and efficiently expand our manufacturing capacity to implement 300-millimeter wafer capacity at SP1, and achieve a competitive wafer cost for SP1 output, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. We have expanded our manufacturing capacity to produce 300-millimeter wafers at SP1. In fiscal 2006, we commenced a plan to spend approximately $1.2 billion over three years to construct and equip SP1 for production of 65-nanometer process technology on 300-millimeter wafers, and we expect to sample 45-nanometer process technology on 300-millimeter wafer capacity in late 2008. In order for SP1 to produce wafers at a competitive cost, we must achieve suitable economies of scale which we anticipate will require additional capital expenditures at SP1 to reach our planned manufacturing capacity. Financing may not be available when needed or, if available, may not be available on satisfactory terms. If we do not achieve our desired capacity at the anticipated cost, or if we cannot obtain suitable financing, we could be materially adversely affected. The timing for implementing 300-millimeter capacity in SP1 will also depend in part on our ability to execute our plan for equipping the facility and other factors that may be beyond our control, such as delivery schedules for the required machinery and equipment and construction schedules. If we are delayed in 23 Table of Contents implementing this capability or are unable to obtain foundry services at competitive rates or to timely and efficiently ramp production on 300-millimeter wafers, we will not achieve anticipated cost savings associated with this technology and our gross margins could decline. Even if we are successful in implementing this capacity, if the demand for our products is not sufficient to support the additional capacity when it becomes available, we could be materially and adversely affected. The loss of a significant customer or a reduction in demand for our Flash memory products from a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on us. We serve our customers worldwide directly through our sales force and indirectly through our distributors, who purchase products from us and sell them to customers, either directly or through their distributors. Our customers consist of OEMs, ODMs and contract manufacturers. In fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, the five largest of these customers accounted for a significant portion of end sales of our products. If one of these customers stopped purchasing our Flash memory products, or if one of these customers were to materially reduce its demand for our products, we could be materially adversely affected. For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 we were materially adversely affected by the reduced customer demand for some of our custom high density NOR-based Flash memory solutions. Our business strategy is to continue to maintain and increase our market share, diversify our customer base in the integrated category of the Flash memory market, and enter new markets enabled by our MirrorBit technology. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in implementing this strategy, and if we are unsuccessful, we could be materially adversely affected. If we fail to successfully diversify our customer base and we lose a significant customer or suffer a reduction in demand from a significant customer, our business may be materially adversely affected. If we fail to successfully develop, introduce and commercialize new products and technologies or to accelerate our product development cycle, we may be materially adversely affected. Our success depends to a significant extent on the development, qualification, production, introduction and acceptance of new product designs and improvements that provide value to Flash memory customers. We must also be able to accomplish this process at a faster pace than we currently do. For example, we introduced products on 90-nanometer process technology in fiscal 2006, plan production on 65-nanometer process technology in the first quarter of fiscal 2008, and plan to introduce products on 45-nanometer process technology in late fiscal 2008. Our ability to develop and qualify new products and related technologies to meet evolving industry requirements, at prices acceptable to our customers and on a timely basis are significant factors in determining our competitiveness in our target markets. If we are delayed in developing or qualifying new products or technologies, we could be materially adversely affected. For example, during the first quarter of fiscal 2005, we experienced a delay in qualifying and introducing a new Flash memory product based on our MirrorBit technology for wireless Flash memory customers. The delay, which was due to our having to re-design the product in order to achieve higher performance specifications under all temperature conditions, contributed to lower than anticipated net sales during first six months of fiscal 2005 and caused us to lose market share. Competitors may introduce new memory or other technologies that may make our Flash memory products uncompetitive or obsolete. Our competitors are working on a number of new technologies, including FRAM, MRAM, polymer, charge trapping and phase-change based memory technologies. Some of our competitors have announced plans to bring to market products based on phase-change based memory technology in 2008. If such products are successfully developed and commercialized as a viable alternative to MirrorBit or floating gate Flash memory, these other products could pose a competitive threat to a number of Flash memory companies, including us. In addition, some of Saifun’s licensees and customers are our competitors or work with our competitors and have licensed Flash memory intellectual property associated with NROM technology from Saifun. Use of this NROM 24 Table of Contents intellectual property or use of independently developed charge trapping Flash memory technology by our competitors, if successfully developed and commercialized, may allow these competitors to develop Flash memory technology that may compete with our proprietary MirrorBit technology. If we fail to successfully develop products based on our new MirrorBit ORNAND, MirrorBit Eclipse, MirrorBit Quad or MirrorBit ORNAND2 architectures, or if there is a lack of market acceptance of these products, our future operating results would be materially adversely affected. We are positioning ourselves to address the increasing demand for data optimized Flash memory by offering higher density, lower cost and more versatile products based on our new MirrorBit ORNAND, MirrorBit Quad, MirrorBit Eclipse and MirrorBit ORNAND2 architectures. The success of these architectures requires that we timely and cost effectively develop, manufacture and market products based on these architectures that are competitive with floating gate NAND-based Flash memory solutions. We began commercial shipments of MirrorBit ORNAND-based products in the second quarter of fiscal 2006 and began commercial shipments of MirrorBit Quad-based products in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. However, if we fail to develop and commercialize these products and additional products based on these architectures on a timely basis, our future operating results would be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, if market acceptance of products based on our MirrorBit architectures occurs at a slower rate than we anticipate, our ability to compete will be reduced, and we would be materially adversely affected. If we do not achieve market acceptance of these architectures or subsequent MirrorBit products, our future operating results would be materially adversely affected. Manufacturing capacity constraints may adversely affect us. There may be situations in which our manufacturing capacity is inadequate to meet the demand for some of our products. We continue to depend on foundry, subcontractor and similar arrangements with third parties to meet demand. Our arrangements with third-party suppliers do not necessarily include capacity guarantees. If a third-party manufacturer on which we rely does not have the capacity to deliver an adequate amount of product to meet actual demand, we may not be able to obtain the manufacturing capacity, either in our own facilities or through other third-party arrangements, to meet such demand. During fiscal 2006, demand for certain of our products exceeded the available supply. As a result, we were unable to meet the demand of some of our customers for these products. This adversely impacted our relationships with these customers, and comparable situations in the future could cause harm to our reputation in the marketplace, cause these customers to move future business to our competitors or cause us to make financial concessions to our customers. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on us. Also, in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006, we experienced capacity constraints for final test and assembly of some of our products. While we have worked internally and with subcontractors to increase capacity to meet anticipated demand, we cannot assure you that we will not experience similar constraints in the future. These capacity constraints limit our ability to respond to rapid and short-term surges or changes in demand for our products. If we are unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet anticipated demand, either in our own facilities or through foundry, subcontractor or similar arrangements with third parties, or if we are unable to obtain foundry services at competitive rates, our business may be materially adversely affected. Our increased reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks that could materially adversely affect us. We currently obtain foundry services from other companies, including Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited and Fujitsu (as a result of the sale of our JV1/JV2 manufacturing facilities in April 2007). In addition, we recently entered into an agreement with Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation under which we may obtain foundry services in the future. We also use independent contractors to perform some of the assembly, testing and packaging of our products. Third-party manufacturers are often under no obligation to provide us with any specified minimum quantity of product. We depend on these manufacturers to allocate to us a portion of their manufacturing capacity sufficient to meet our needs, to produce products of acceptable quality and at acceptable manufacturing yields and to deliver those products to us on a timely basis at 25 Table of Contents acceptable prices. We cannot assure you that these manufacturers will be able to meet our near-term or long-term manufacturing requirements. These manufacturers also make products for other companies, including certain of our competitors, and/or for themselves and could choose to prioritize capacity for themselves or other customers beyond any minimum guaranteed amounts, reduce deliveries to us or, in the absence of price guarantees, increase the prices they charge us on short notice, such that we may not be able to pass cost increases on to our customers. Because it could take several quarters or more to establish a relationship with a new manufacturing partner, we may be unable to secure an alternative supply for specific products in a short timeframe or at all at an acceptable cost to satisfy our production requirements. In addition, we may be required to incur additional development, manufacturing and other costs to establish alternative sources of supply. Other risks associated with our increased dependence on third-party manufacturers include: their ability to adapt to our proprietary technology, reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields and cost, lack of capacity in periods of excess demand, misappropriation of our intellectual property, reduced ability to manage inventory and parts and risks associated with operating in foreign countries. If we are unable to secure sufficient or reliable suppliers of wafers or obtain the necessary assembling, testing and packaging services, our ability to meet customer demand for our products may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Industry overcapacity could require us to lower our prices and have a material adverse effect on us. Semiconductor companies with their own manufacturing facilities and specialist semiconductor foundries, which are subcontractors that manufacture semiconductors designed by others, have added significant capacity in recent years and are expected to continue to do so. In the past, capacity additions sometimes exceeded demand requirements leading to oversupply situations and downturns in the industry. Fluctuations in the growth rate of industry capacity relative to the growth rate in demand for Flash memory products contribute to cyclicality in the Flash memory market, which may in the future negatively impact our average selling prices and materially adversely affect us. Industry overcapacity could cause us to under-utilize our manufacturing capacity and have a material adverse effect on us. It is difficult to predict future growth or decline in the markets we serve, making it very difficult to estimate requirements for production capacity. If our target markets do not grow as we anticipate, we may under-utilize our manufacturing capacity. This may result in write-downs or write-offs of inventories and losses on products the demand for which is lower than we anticipate. In addition, during periods of industry overcapacity, such as we have recently experienced, customers do not generally order products as far in advance of the scheduled shipment date as they do during periods when our industry is operating closer to capacity, which can exacerbate the difficulty in forecasting capacity requirements. Many of our costs are fixed. Additionally, pursuant to some of our subcontractor and foundry arrangements with third parties we may incur and pay penalties, according to which we have agreed to pay for a certain amount of product even if we do not accept delivery of all of such amount. Accordingly, during periods in which we under-utilize our manufacturing capacity as a result of reduced demand for some of our products, our costs cannot be reduced in proportion to the reduced revenues for such periods. When this occurs, our operating results are materially adversely affected. Our customers’ ability to change booked orders may lead to excess inventory. Because our manufacturing processes require long lead times, we use indicators such as booking rates and book-to-bill ratios, in conjunction with other business metrics, to schedule production in our fabrication facilities. Consequently, when customers change orders booked by us, our planned manufacturing capacity may be greater or less than actual demand, resulting in less than optimal inventory levels. When this occurs, we adjust our 26 Table of Contents production levels but such adjustments may not prevent our production of excess inventory in environments when bookings and book-to-bill ratios are strong. As a result, our business may be materially adversely affected. Intense competition in the Flash memory market could materially adversely affect us. Our principal NOR Flash memory competitors are Intel Corporation, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. and STMicroelectronics. In the future, our principal NOR Flash memory competitors may also include Numonyx, the announced joint venture between Intel, STMicroelectronics and Francisco Partners. Additional significant NOR Flash memory competitors include Silicon Storage Technology, Inc., Macronix International Co., Ltd., Toshiba Corporation and Sharp Electronics Corp. We increasingly compete with NAND Flash memory manufacturers where NAND Flash memory has the ability to replace NOR Flash memory in customer applications and as we develop data storage solutions based on our MirrorBit ORNAND, MirrorBit Quad, MirrorBit Eclipse and MirrorBit ORNAND2 architectures for the integrated category and select portions of the removable category of the Flash memory market. Our principal NAND Flash memory competitors include Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd, Toshiba Corporation, Hynix Semiconductor Inc. and STMicroelectronics. In the future our principal NAND Flash memory competitors may include Intel Corporation, Micron Technology, Inc., IM Flash Technology LLC, the joint venture between Intel and Micron Technology, Inc., Numonyx and SanDisk Corporation. The Flash memory market is characterized by intense competition. The basis of competition is cost, selling price, performance, quality, customer relationships and ability to provide value-added solutions. In particular, in the past, our competitors have aggressively priced their products, which resulted in decreased average selling prices for our products in the first half of fiscal 2007 and adversely impacted our results of operations. Some of our competitors, including Intel, Samsung, STMicroelectronics, Toshiba, and Sharp, are more diversified than we are and may be able to sustain lower operating margins in their Flash memory business based on the profitability of their other, non-Flash memory businesses. In addition, recent capital investments by competitors have resulted in substantial industry manufacturing capacity, which may further contribute to a competitive pricing environment. Some of our competitors are able to manufacture floating gate NAND-based Flash memory products on 300-millimeter wafers produced in much larger capacity fabs than our SP1 fab or may choose to utilize more advanced manufacturing process technologies than we use today to offer products competitive to ours at a lower cost. Moreover, products based on our MirrorBit ORNAND-, MirrorBit Quad-, MirrorBit Eclipse- and MirrorBit ORNAND2-based architectures may not have the price, performance, quality and other features necessary to compete successfully for these applications. We expect competition in the market for Flash memory devices to intensify as existing manufacturers introduce new products, new manufacturers enter the market, industry-wide production capacity increases and competitors aggressively price their Flash memory products to increase market share. Competition also may increase if NOR memory vendors merge, if NAND memory vendors acquire NOR businesses or other NAND businesses, or if our competitors otherwise consolidate their operations. Furthermore, we face increasing competition from NAND Flash memory vendors in some portions of the integrated Flash memory market. To compete successfully, we must decrease our manufacturing costs and develop, introduce and sell products at competitive prices that meet the increasing demand for greater Flash memory content in mobile phones, consumer electronics, automotive and other applications. If we are unable to compete effectively, we could be materially adversely affected. We cannot be certain that our substantial investments in research and development will lead to timely improvements in technology or that we will have sufficient resources to invest in the level of research and development that is required to remain competitive. We make substantial investments in research and development for design, process technologies and production in an effort to design and manufacture advanced Flash memory products. For example, in fiscal 2006 27 Table of Contents and fiscal 2007, our research and development expenses were approximately $342.0 million and $436.8 million, respectively, or approximately 13 and 17 percent, respectively, of our net sales. Currently, we are developing new non-volatile memory process technologies, including 65-nanometer and 45-nanometer process technologies. Our Submicron Development Center facility is developing manufacturing process technologies on 300-millimeter wafers. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required for us to remain competitive, which could materially adversely affect us. Further, we cannot assure you that our investments in research and development will result in increased sales or competitive advantage, which could adversely affect our operating results. Unless we maintain manufacturing efficiency, we may not become profitable and our future profitability could be materially adversely affected. The Flash memory industry is characterized by rapid technological changes. For example, new manufacturing process technologies using smaller feature sizes and offering better performance characteristics are generally introduced every one to two years. The introduction of new manufacturing process technologies allows us to increase the functionality of our products while at the same time optimizing performance parameters, decreasing power consumption and/or increasing storage capacity. In addition, the reduction of feature sizes enables us to produce smaller chips offering the same functionality and thereby considerably reduces the costs per bit. In order to remain competitive, it is essential that we secure the capabilities to develop and qualify new manufacturing process technologies. For example, our leading Flash memory products must be manufactured at 65-nanometer and more advanced process technologies and on 300-millimeter wafers. If we are delayed in transitioning to these technologies and other future technologies, we could be materially adversely affected. Manufacturing our products involves highly complex processes that require advanced equipment. Our manufacturing efficiency is an important factor in our profitability, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain or increase our manufacturing efficiency to the same extent as our competitors. For example, we continuously modify our manufacturing processes in an effort to improve yields and product performance and decrease costs. We are continuing to transition products to 90-nanometer process technology and developing the 65-nanometer process technology for the manufacture of some of our products. During periods when we are implementing new process technologies, manufacturing facilities may not be fully productive. We may fail to achieve acceptable yields or may experience product delivery delays as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, delays in the development of new process technologies, changes in our process technologies, upgrades or expansion of existing facilities, impurities or other difficulties in the manufacturing process. Any of these occurrences could adversely impact our relationships with customers, cause harm to our reputation in the marketplace, cause customers to move future business to our competitors or cause us to make financial concessions to our customers. For example, in the third quarter of fiscal 2006, we had lower than expected yields on 12,000 raw wafers and, as a result, we were unable to meet the demand of some of our customers, including in Japan, and our revenue and gross margins were adversely affected. Improving our manufacturing efficiency in future periods is dependent on our ability to: • develop advanced process technologies and advanced products that utilize those technologies; • successfully transition to 65-nanometer and more advanced process technologies; • continue to reduce test times; • ramp product and process technology improvements rapidly and effectively to commercial volumes across our facilities; • achieve acceptable levels of manufacturing wafer output and yields, which may decrease as we implement more advanced technologies; and • maintain our quality controls and rely upon the quality and process controls of our suppliers. 28 Table of Contents If we cannot adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property in the United States and abroad, through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and other measures, we may lose a competitive advantage and incur significant expenses. We rely on a combination of protections provided by contracts, including confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements, copyrights, patents, trademarks and common law rights, such as trade secrets, to protect our intellectual property. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property from third-party infringement or from misappropriation in the United States and abroad. Any patent owned or licensed by us or issued to us could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or rights granted under these patents or licenses may not provide a competitive advantage to us. Furthermore, patent applications that we file may not result in issuance of a patent or, if a patent is issued, the patent may not be issued in a form that is advantageous to us. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, others may independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around our patents and other intellectual property rights. In addition, it is difficult to monitor compliance with, and enforce, our intellectual property on a worldwide basis in a cost-effective manner. Foreign laws may provide less intellectual property protection than afforded in the United States. If we cannot adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property rights in the United States and abroad, we may be materially adversely affected. We are party to intellectual property litigation and may become party to other intellectual property claims or litigation that could cause us to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages or prohibit us from selling our products. We provide indemnities relating to non-infringement of patents and other intellectual property indemnities to certain of our customers in connection with the delivery, design, manufacture and sale of our products. From time to time, we may be notified, or third parties may bring actions against us based on allegations, that we are infringing the intellectual property rights of others. If any such claims are asserted against us, we may seek to obtain a license under the third party’s intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain all of the necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. In the event that we cannot obtain a license, these parties may file lawsuits against us seeking damages (potentially including treble damages) or an injunction against the sale of our products that incorporate allegedly infringed intellectual property or against the operation of our business as presently conducted, which could result in our having to stop the sale of some of our products, increase the costs of selling some of our products, or cause damage to our reputation. The award of damages, including material royalty payments, or the entry of an injunction against the manufacture and sale of some or all of our products, would have a material adverse effect on us. We could decide, in the alternative, to redesign our products or to resort to litigation to challenge or defend such claims, either of which could be expensive and time-consuming and may have a material adverse effect on us. For example, Tessera, Inc. filed lawsuits against us alleging that we have infringed certain of Tessera’s patents. Tessera has sought to enjoin such alleged infringements, to recover an unspecified amount of damages, and to bar our importation and sale of allegedly infringing products. In addition, Fujitsu has informed us that Texas Instruments has asserted that a number of our products infringe some of Texas Instruments’ patents. Fujitsu has also informed us that it expects us to defend and indemnify Fujitsu against Texas Instruments’ claims. Fujitsu has provided us with formal notice that they believe we have a duty to defend or indemnify Fujitsu under the terms of our distribution agreement. Since then, we and Fujitsu have been discussing the issues raised by this notice, and if Fujitsu were to terminate our distribution agreement, we could be materially adversely affected. Defending these alleged infringement claims and similar claims could be extremely expensive and time-consuming and an award of damages or an injunction could have a material adverse effect on us. We cannot assure you that litigation related to the intellectual property rights of ours or others can be avoided or will be successfully concluded. 29 Table of Contents Our inability to design and implement new enterprise-wide information systems in a timely and cost-effective manner could materially adversely affect us. Although we have completed our physical separation from AMD’s information systems, we are continuing to design and implement our own enterprise-wide information systems. These systems have been designed to automate more fully our business processes and affect most of our functional areas including sales, finance, procurement, inventory control, collections, order processing and manufacturing. In connection with the implementation of these information systems, we may experience functional and performance problems, including problems relating to the information systems’ response time and data integrity. In addition, resolution of any such problems could entail significant additional costs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to implement these information systems successfully or on a timely basis and in a cost-effective manner or that these information systems will not fail or prove to be unsuitable for our needs. Our inability to implement or resolve problems with these information systems in a timely and cost-effective manner could materially adversely affect us. If essential equipment or adequate supplies of satisfactory materials are not available to manufacture our products, we could be materially adversely affected. Our manufacturing operations depend upon obtaining deliveries of equipment and adequate supplies of materials on a timely basis. We purchase equipment and materials from a number of suppliers. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supply to us or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Because the equipment that we purchase is complex, it is difficult for us to substitute one supplier for another or one piece of equipment for another. Some raw materials we use in the manufacture of our products are available from a limited number of suppliers. Our manufacturing operations also depend upon the quality and usability of the materials we use in our products, including raw materials and wafers we receive from our suppliers. For example, in the third quarter of fiscal 2006, we had lower than expected yields on 12,000 raw wafers received from one of our suppliers and our revenue and gross margins were adversely affected. If the materials we receive from our suppliers do not meet our manufacturing requirements or product specifications, we may be materially adversely affected. We also rely on purchasing commercial memory die such as DRAMs from third-party suppliers to incorporate these die into multi-chip package, or MCP, products. The availability of these third-party purchased commercial die is subject to market availability, and the process technology roadmaps and manufacturing capacities of our vendors. In addition, some of our major suppliers, including Samsung, are also our competitors. Interruption of supply from a competitor that is a supplier or otherwise or increased demand in the industry could cause shortages and price increases in various essential materials. If we are unable to procure these materials, or if the materials we receive from our suppliers do not meet our production requirements or product specifications, we may have to reduce our manufacturing operations or our manufacturing yields may be adversely affected. Such a reduction and yield issues have in the past and could in the future have a material adverse effect on us. Our inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could impact our business. Our future success depends upon the continued service of numerous qualified engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and executive personnel. We cannot assure you that our equity incentive plan or our employee benefit plans will be effective in motivating or retaining our employees or attracting new employees. Competition for qualified employees among companies that rely heavily on engineering and technology is intense, and the loss of key employees or executive personnel or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees could materially adversely affect us. Costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on us. One or more of our products may be found to be defective after the product has been shipped to customers in volume. The cost of product replacements or product returns may be substantial, and our reputation with our 30 Table of Contents customers would be damaged. In addition, we could incur substantial costs to implement modifications to fix defects. Any of these problems could materially adversely affect us. Uncertainties involving the ordering of our products could materially adversely affect us. Flash memory suppliers compete in part on the basis of their ability to deliver products to end customers on short lead times and it is common for prevailing lead times in the market to be shorter than the minimum manufacturing cycle time. To deliver products with competitive lead times, we must maintain a buffer stock of product to fulfill customer orders. Because our buffer stock must be produced before customer orders are received, our production levels are based on forecasts of customer demand. Generally, we sell our products pursuant to individual purchase orders from our direct customers, distributors and our distributors’ customers. Generally, these customers and distributors may cancel their orders for standard products thirty days prior to shipment without incurring a significant penalty. Customer demand for our products may be difficult to predict because such customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason or they may cancel or defer product orders. Inaccurate forecasts of customer demand or cancellation or deferral of product orders could result in excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in write-downs of inventory. Because market conditions are uncertain, we could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to accurately predict demand for our products. Our investments in marketable debt securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. Our cash and cash equivalents as of December 30, 2007, totaled $199.1 million and consisted of cash, money market funds and commercial paper. Our marketable securities totaled $216.7 million, and included student loan backed and municipal bond backed auction rate securities. These marketable securities are subject to general credit, liquidity, market risks and interest rate fluctuations that have affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused overall tightening of the credit markets. Although during fiscal 2007, we had no declines in the fair value of any of our marketable securities, we cannot assure you that the market risks associated with our investment portfolio will not in the future have a negative adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. As of February 20, 2008, within our marketable securities portfolio we held approximately $122.0 million of AAA/Aaa securities with auction reset features (auction rate securities) whose underlying assets are student loans and are substantially backed by the U.S. government Federal Family Education Loan Program. Since the end of fiscal 2007, we have liquidated a significant portion of our auction rate securities, but we recently were unsuccessful in liquidating a part of our remaining portfolio. Although our auction rate securities are sponsored by the U.S. government and are currently rated AAA/Aaa, our ability to liquidate these investments in the near term may be limited. We cannot assure you that auctions on our auction rate securities holdings will succeed in the near future. Any delays in liquidating these securities in the future could have a material adverse effect on us. Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect us. As a result of our foreign operations, we have sales, expenses, assets and liabilities that are denominated in Japanese yen and other foreign currencies. For example, • some of our manufacturing costs are denominated in Japanese yen, Chinese renminbi, and other foreign currencies such as the Thai baht and Malaysian ringgit; • sales of our products to Fujitsu are denominated in both US dollars and Japanese yen; and • some fixed asset purchases are denominated in Japanese yen and European Union euros. 31 Table of Contents Consequently, movements in exchange rates could cause our net sales and expenses to fluctuate, affecting our profitability and cash flows. We use foreign currency forward contracts to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The objective of these contracts is to reduce the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our operating results and on the cost of capital asset acquisitions. We do not use these contracts for speculative or trading purposes. We cannot assure you that these activities will be successful in reducing our foreign currency exchange rate exposure. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on us. Worldwide economic and political conditions may adversely affect demand for our products. Worldwide economic conditions may adversely affect demand for our products. Because our sales are primarily to customers purchasing Flash memory that addresses the wireless and embedded applications, our business depends on the overall economic conditions and the economic and business conditions within our customers’ industries. A weakening of the worldwide economy or the demand for our customers’ products may cause a decrease in demand for our products, which could materially adversely affect us. Our consolidated financial results could also be significantly and adversely affected by geopolitical concerns and world events, such as wars and terrorist attacks. Our revenues and financial results have been and could be negatively affected to the extent geopolitical concerns continue and similar events occur or are anticipated to occur. In particular, consequences of military action in the Middle East have in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect demand for our products and our relationship with various third parties with which we collaborate. In addition, terrorist attacks may negatively affect our operations, directly or indirectly, and such attacks or related armed conflicts may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. Furthermore, these attacks may make travel and the transportation of our products more difficult and more expensive, which could materially adversely affect us. The United States has been and may continue to be involved in armed conflicts that could have a further impact on our sales and our supply chain. Political and economic instability in some regions of the world may also result and could negatively impact our business. The consequences of armed conflicts are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have a material adverse effect on us. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. economy and worldwide financial markets. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on us. Our operations in foreign countries are subject to political and economic risks, which could have a material adverse effect on us. The majority of our wafer fabrication capacity is located in Japan and nearly all final test and assembly of our products is performed at our facilities in China, Malaysia and Thailand and by third parties in Taiwan and Japan. In addition, we have international sales operations and, as part of our business strategy, we are continuing to seek to expand our product sales in high growth markets. The political and economic risks associated with our sales to, and operations in, foreign countries include: • expropriation; • changes in political or economic conditions; • changes in tax laws, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • difficulties in protecting our intellectual property; • difficulties in achieving headcount reductions; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • restrictions on transfers of funds and other assets of our subsidiaries between jurisdictions; • changes in freight and interest rates; 32 Table of Contents • disruption in air transportation between the United States and our overseas facilities; and • loss or modification of exemptions for taxes and tariffs. Any conflict or uncertainty in the countries in which we operate, including public health or safety concerns, natural disasters or general economic factors, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any of the above risks, should they occur, could have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws that could result in liabilities. Our properties and many aspects of our business operations are subject to various domestic and international environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to materials used in our products and manufacturing processes; chemical use and handling; waste minimization; discharge of pollutants into the environment; the treatment, transport, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes; and remediation of contamination. Certain of these laws and regulations require us to obtain permits for our operations, including permits related to the discharge of air pollutants and wastewater. From time to time, our facilities are subject to investigation by governmental regulators. Environmental compliance obligations and liability risks are inherent in many of our manufacturing and other activities. Any failure to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations or permits may subject us to a range of consequences, including fines, suspension of production, alteration of manufacturing processes, sales limitations, and criminal and civil liabilities or other sanctions. We could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of exposure to hazardous materials used, stored, released, disposed of by us or located at or under our facilities, or for other environmental or natural resource damage. Certain environmental laws, including the U.S. Comprehensive, Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or the Superfund Act, impose joint and several liability on current and previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances and costs related to damages to natural resources. Liability can attach even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. These environmental laws also can result in liability for persons, like us, who arrange for hazardous substances to be sent to disposal or treatment facilities, in the event such facilities are found to be contaminated. Such persons can be responsible for cleanup costs at a disposal or treatment facility, even if they never owned or operated the contaminated facility. One property where we currently conduct research and development operations is listed on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Superfund National Priorities List. However, other parties currently are responsible for all investigation, cleanup and remediation activities. Although we have not been named a responsible party at this site, if we were so named, costs associated with the cleanup of the site could have material adverse effect upon us. We have not been named a responsible party at any Superfund or other contaminated site. If we were ever so named, costs associated with the cleanup of the site could be material. Additionally, contamination that has not yet been identified could exist at one or more of our facilities, and identification of such contamination could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business is subject to complex and dynamic environmental regulatory schemes. While we have budgeted for reasonably foreseeable environmental expenditures, we cannot assure you that environmental laws will not change or become more stringent in the future. Future environmental regulations could require us to procure expensive pollution abatement or remediation equipment; to modify product designs; or to incur other expenses associated with compliance with such regulations. For example, the European Union and China recently began imposing stricter requirements regarding reduced lead content in semiconductor packaging. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, or liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, will not have a material adverse effect on our business. 33 Table of Contents Our worldwide operations and the operations of our suppliers could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, such as a world health crisis, fire, earthquake, tsunami, volcano eruption, flood, hurricane, power loss, power shortage, telecommunications failure or similar events, which could harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. For example, our corporate headquarters are located near major earthquake fault lines in California, and one of our two wafer fabrication facilities, as well as our new 300-millimeter wafer fabrication facility, SP1, are located near major earthquake fault lines in Japan. In addition, our assembly and test facilities located in China, Malaysia and Thailand may be affected by tsunamis. In the event of a major earthquake or tsunami, we could experience loss of life of our employees, destruction of facilities or other business interruptions. If such business disruptions result in cancellations of customer orders or contribute to a general decrease in economic activity or demand for our products, or directly impact our marketing, manufacturing, financial, and logistics functions, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, the operations of our suppliers could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could cause shortages and price increases in various essential materials, such as liquid hydrogen, which are required to manufacture our products or commercial memory die such as DRAMs for incorporation into our MCP products. If we are unable to procure an adequate supply of materials that are required for us to manufacture our products, or if the operations of our other suppliers of such materials are affected by an event that causes a significant business disruption, then we may have to reduce our manufacturing operations. Such a reduction could in the future have a material adverse effect on us. We may be delayed or prevented from taking actions that require the consent of AMD and Fujitsu, whose interests may differ from or conflict with our interests or those of our other stockholders, which could decrease the value of your shares. Our bylaws provide that for so long as AMD or Fujitsu maintains an aggregate ownership interest in us of at least 10 percent, we will not be able to amend our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or effect any resolution to wind up Spansion Inc. or any other subsidiary without their prior consent. We cannot assure you that the interests of AMD and Fujitsu will be aligned with our interests or those of our other stockholders with respect to such decisions. As a result, we may be unable to take steps that we believe are desirable and in the best interests of our stockholders. In addition, these consent rights could make an acquisition of us more difficult, even if the acquisition may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. The interests of AMD and Fujitsu, and our director nominated by Fujitsu, may differ from or conflict with our interests or those of our other stockholders. When exercising their rights as our stockholders, either alone or in concert, AMD and Fujitsu may take into account not only our interests but also their interests and the interests of their other affiliates. Our interests and the interests of AMD and Fujitsu may at times conflict since the growth of our business depends, in part, on successful competition with other semiconductor companies. These conflicts may result in lost corporate opportunities for us, including opportunities to enter into lines of business that may overlap with those pursued by AMD and Fujitsu. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and, even if we do so, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with unaffiliated parties. Various other conflicts of interest between AMD, Fujitsu and us may arise in the future in a number of areas relating to our business and relationships, including potential acquisitions of businesses or properties, intellectual property matters, transfers by AMD or Fujitsu of all or any portion of its ownership interest in us or its other 34 Table of Contents assets, which could be to one of our competitors, indemnity arrangements, service arrangements and business opportunities that may be attractive to AMD, Fujitsu and us. AMD and Fujitsu are two of our largest stockholders. Fujitsu has the right to elect one member to our board of directors. Each stockholder’s ability to elect directors is subject to reduction based on the amount of our common stock that they own and this right terminates when their ownership in us falls below 10 percent. Individuals who are our directors and also officers of Fujitsu have a duty of care and loyalty to us when acting in their capacities as our directors and a duty of care and loyalty to Fujitsu when acting as their officers or directors. However, our certificate of incorporation provides that in the event a director or officer of our company who is also a director or officer of Fujitsu acquires knowledge of a potential business opportunity that may be deemed a corporate opportunity of our company and Fujitsu, such opportunity will belong to Fujitsu, as applicable, unless it has been expressly offered to such director or officer in writing solely in his or her capacity as a director or officer of our company. Ownership of AMD common stock by any of our officers could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when those directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for AMD than they do for us. Our stock price may decline as a result of sales of common stock by us, AMD or Fujitsu. Our reorganization in 2003 was the commencement of AMD’s and Fujitsu’s respective divestures of their Flash memory businesses. Our initial public offering in December 2005 and our secondary stock offering in November 2006 have been vehicles by which AMD and Fujitsu further reduced their holdings in us. In early 2007, AMD also sold large numbers of our shares in the public market under Rule 144, and we expect AMD to continue its divesture. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the possibility of such sales, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional equity securities. We cannot predict with any certainty the effects of AMD’s sales; however, any further sale by AMD, or a sale by Fujitsu or us of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. In addition, we could issue and sell additional shares of our common stock. Any sale by us of our common stock would have a dilutive effect on the outstanding shares, and could adversely affect the prevailing market prices for our common stock. Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for liabilities of AMD and Fujitsu that we did not assume in our agreements. Under our agreements with AMD and Fujitsu, we agreed to assume liabilities related to our business after June 30, 2003, and liabilities related to our business prior to June 30, 2003 if such liabilities were reflected as accruals or reserves on the AMD and Fujitsu contributed balance sheets. Our assumed liabilities include claims made with respect to Flash memory products sold after June 30, 2003, even if such products were manufactured prior to June 30, 2003, and warranty claims with respect to products sold prior to June 30, 2003 to the extent such warranty claims were reflected as accruals or reserves on the AMD and Fujitsu contributed balance sheets. The allocation of assets and liabilities between AMD, Fujitsu and us may not reflect the allocation that would have been reached between unaffiliated parties and may be less favorable to us as a result. Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for AMD’s and Fujitsu’s retained liabilities. If our losses for AMD’s and Fujitsu’s retained liabilities were significant and we were ultimately held liable for them, we cannot assure you that we would be able to recover the full amount of our losses. We rely on Fujitsu to be our sole distributor in Japan. We currently rely on Fujitsu to act as the sole distributor of our products to customers in Japan, which was one of our most important geographic markets in fiscal 2006 and in fiscal 2007. Under our distribution agreement with Fujitsu, Fujitsu has agreed to use its best efforts to promote the sale of our products in Japan and to other 35 Table of Contents customers served by Fujitsu. In the event that we reasonably determine that Fujitsu’s sales performance in Japan and to those customers served by Fujitsu is not satisfactory based on specified criteria, then we have the right to require Fujitsu to propose and implement an agreed-upon corrective action plan. If we reasonably believe that the corrective action plan is inadequate, we can take steps to remedy deficiencies ourselves through means that include appointing another distributor as a supplementary distributor to sell products in Japan and to customers served by Fujitsu. Pursuing these actions would be costly and disruptive to the sales of our products in Japan. If Fujitsu’s sales performance in Japan is unsatisfactory or if we are unable to successfully maintain our distribution agreement and relationship with Fujitsu, as a result of its seeking indemnity from us in respect of certain infringement claims made by Texas Instruments or otherwise, and we can not timely find a suitable supplementary distributor, we could be materially adversely affected. On December 28, 2007, we entered into an amendment to our distribution agreement with Fujitsu which provides, among other terms, that Fujitsu no longer has territorial exclusivity in Japan and that effective April 1, 2008 we may enter into distribution agreements with Fujitsu’s sub-distributors in Japan. We also agreed to negotiate in good faith a successor distribution agreement with Fujitsu Electronics, Inc., or such other semiconductor sales group affiliate of Fujitsu. If Fujitsu, Fujitsu Electronics, Inc., or another semiconductor sales group affiliate of Fujitsu unexpectedly or abruptly terminates its distribution agreement with us, or otherwise ceases its support of our customers in Japan, we would be required to rely on a relationship with another distributor or establish our own local sales organization and support functions. Although we are currently establishing a sales organization and infrastructure in Japan, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in selling our products to customers currently served by Fujitsu or new customers. If customers currently served by Fujitsu, or potential new customers, refuse to purchase our products directly from us or from another distributor, our sales in Japan may decline, and we could be materially adversely affected. AMD and Fujitsu may continue to use all of our intellectual property and the intellectual property they have transferred to us. In connection with our reorganization as Spansion LLC in June 2003, AMD and Fujitsu transferred approximately 400 patents and patent applications to us. In addition, AMD and Fujitsu contributed additional patents to us at the time of our initial public offering. However, both AMD and Fujitsu have retained the rights to use any patents contributed to us for an unlimited period of time. In addition, under their respective patent cross-license agreements with us, AMD and Fujitsu have also obtained licenses to our present and future patents with effective filing dates prior to the later of June 30, 2013, or such date on which they have transferred all of their shares in us, although the scope of patents under license can be impacted by a change in control of the parties or their semiconductor groups. These licenses continue until the last to expire of the patents under license expires and provide AMD and Fujitsu with licenses to all of our present and future patents in existence through such cross-license termination date. Furthermore, we entered into an Amended and Restated Intellectual Property Contribution and Ancillary Matters Agreement with AMD and Fujitsu in connection with our reorganization as Spansion Inc. in December 2005. Pursuant to that agreement, subject to our confidentiality obligations to third parties, and only for so long as AMD’s and Fujitsu’s ownership interests in us remain above specific minimum levels, we are obligated to identify any of our technology to each of AMD and Fujitsu, and to provide copies of and training with respect to that technology to them. In addition, pursuant to this agreement we have granted a non-exclusive, perpetual, irrevocable fully paid and royalty-free license of our rights, other than patent and trademark rights, in that technology to each of AMD and Fujitsu. Under our non-competition agreement, both AMD and Fujitsu have agreed that they will not directly or indirectly engage in a business, and have agreed to divest any acquired business, that manufactures or supplies standalone semiconductor devices (including single chip, multiple chip or system devices) containing certain Flash memory, which is the business in which we primarily compete. With respect to each of AMD and Fujitsu, this non-competition restriction will last until the earlier of (i) two years from the date such stockholder’s ownership in us falls to or below five percent, or (ii) the dissolution of our company. After that time, should they ever decide to re-enter the Flash memory business, AMD or Fujitsu could use our present and future patents and 36 Table of Contents technologies licensed by us to AMD and Fujitsu under the cross licenses and our Amended and Restated Intellectual Property Contribution and Ancillary Matters Agreement to compete against us. If either AMD or Fujitsu were to compete with us, we could be materially adversely affected. Our stock price may be volatile, and stockholders may lose all or part of their investment. The market price of shares of our common stock has been volatile and may in the future be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many risk factors listed in this section, and others beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated changes in our operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived to be comparable to us; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, divestitures, joint ventures or other strategic initiatives; and • stock price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels or other factors. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of shares of our common stock. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could materially adversely affect us. If securities or industry analysts publish negative reports about our business, the price and trading volume of our securities could decline. The trading market for our securities depends, in part, on the research reports and ratings that securities or industry analysts or ratings agencies publish about us, our business and the Flash memory market in general. We do not have any control over these analysts or agencies. If one or more of the analysts or agencies who cover us downgrades us or our securities, the price of our securities may decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause the price of our securities or trading volume to decline. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, our stockholders’ only opportunity to achieve a return on their investment is through appreciation in the price of our common stock. We currently do not plan to pay dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future and are currently prohibited from doing so in specific circumstances under agreements governing our borrowing arrangements. The terms of our senior secured revolving credit facility limit our ability to pay cash dividends on any shares of our common stock. Furthermore, if we are in default under this credit facility, our ability to pay cash dividends will be limited in the absence of a waiver of that default or an amendment to that facility. Similar prohibitions are applicable under the indenture governing the outstanding notes issued by Spansion LLC. In addition, because we are a holding company, our ability to pay cash dividends on shares of our common stock may be limited by restrictions on our ability to obtain sufficient funds through dividends from our subsidiaries, including the restrictions under the indenture governing the notes. Our common stock will rank junior as to payment of dividends to any series of preferred stock that we may issue in the future. Generally, unless full dividends including any cumulative dividends still owing on all outstanding shares of any preferred stock have 37 Table of Contents been paid, no dividends will be declared or paid on our common stock. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in our company will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates. Any future issuance of our preferred stock could adversely affect holders of our common stock. Our board of directors is authorized to issue shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders. Our board of directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such series of shares of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or if we liquidate, dissolve or wind up our business and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our affairs, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. The use of our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited. If we conduct an offering of our common stock, we may experience an “ownership change” as defined in the Internal Revenue Code such that our ability to utilize our federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $594.4 million as of December 30, 2007 may be limited under certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. As a result, we may incur greater tax liabilities than we would in the absence of such a limitation and any increased liabilities could materially adversely affect us. Provisions in our corporate governance documents as well as Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us that stockholders may consider favorable, which could decrease the value of your shares. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to remove directors, a classified board of directors and limitations on action by our stockholders by written consent. In addition, our board of directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to make an acquisition of us more difficult. Although we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics and thereby provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 