D. Risk Factors The following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate to the securities market and ownership of our common shares. If any of the circumstances or events described below actually arises or occurs, our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends in the future could be materially adversely affected. In any such case, the market price of our common shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Industry Specific Risk Factors Charter rates for product tankers and bulkers have declined significantly and are experiencing high volatility. Charter rates for both tankers and bulkers may decrease further in the future, which may adversely affect our earnings. The degree of charter rate volatility among different types of product tankers and dry bulk vessels has varied widely and after reaching historical highs in mid-2008, charter rates for product tankers and dry bulk vessels have declined significantly. If the shipping industry is depressed when our charters expire or are otherwise terminated, our revenues, earnings and available cash flow may be adversely affected. In addition, a further decline in charter rates likely will cause the value of our vessels to further decline. During 2011, four time charters (two Panamax bulkers, one Handysize bulker and one Panamax tanker) are expiring. In addition, one of our dry bulkers is currently employed in the spot market. Also, certain of our charterers are experiencing financial difficulties, which has resulted in an increase in time for us to realize our receivables. In certain instances, our charterers have been unable to fulfill their obligations under their charters. If such charterers continue to be unable to perform their obligations, we may be forced to reclaim and re-charter the related vessels. Given the currently depressed market conditions, we may not be able to successfully charter these vessels in the future or renew our existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to operate our business profitably. Our ability to re-charter tanker vessels on the expiration or termination of our current charters, the charter rates payable under any replacement charters and vessel values will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the product tanker markets at that time, changes in the supply and demand for vessel capacity and changes in the supply and demand for oil and oil products. We anticipate that the future demand for our dry bulk carriers and dry bulk charter rates will be dependent upon demand for imported commodities, economic growth in the emerging markets, including the Asia Pacific region (including China), India, Brazil and Russia and the rest of the world, seasonal and regional changes in demand and changes to the capacity of the world fleet. Recent adverse economic, political, social or other developments have decreased demand and prospects for growth in the shipping industry and thereby could reduce revenue significantly. A decline in demand for commodities transported in dry bulk carriers or an increase in supply of dry bulk vessels could cause a further decline in charter rates, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If we sell a vessel at a time when the market value of our vessels has fallen, the sale may be at less than the vessel’s carrying amount, resulting in a loss. Furthermore, the recent economic slowdown in the U.S. and Japan, together with the deteriorating economic situation in Europe caused by the sovereign debt crises in certain European Union (“EU”) member countries may further reduce demand for transportation of oil over long distances and supply of tankers that carry oil, which may materially and adversely affect our future revenues, profitability and cash flows. The product tanker and dry bulk vessel markets are cyclical with high volatility in charter rates and industry profitability. The factors affecting the supply and demand for product tankers and dry bulk vessels are 6 Table of Contents outside of our control and are unpredictable. The nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. The factors that influence the demand for tonnage capacity include: • demand for cargoes (e.g., oil and oil products for tankers, coal, raw materials, agricultural products and steel products for bulkers); • supply of cargoes; • oil prices; • demand of energy in developing countries; • continuing growth of industrialization in the emerging countries; • regional availability of refining capacity; • the globalization of manufacturing; • global and regional economic and political conditions; • armed conflicts, acts of piracy and terrorism; • developments in international trade; • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances over which cargoes are transported; • environmental and other regulatory developments; • currency exchange rates; and • weather. The factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: • the number of newbuilding deliveries; • the scrapping activity and age of vessels in the existing world fleet; • the price of steel; • changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful lives of vessels; • the conversion of vessels from one type to another; • the loss of vessels; • the number of vessels (tankers mainly) that are used for storage; • the number of vessels that are in or out of service; and • port or canal congestion and increased waiting days at port. If the number of new vessels delivered exceeds the number of vessels being scrapped, lost and converted, tonnage capacity will increase. If the supply of tonnage capacity increases but the demand for tonnage capacity does not increase correspondingly, charter rates and vessel values could materially decline. Downturns in the product tankers and dry bulk vessels charter markets may have an adverse effect on our earnings, affect compliance with our loan covenants and our ability to pay dividends if reinstated in the future. Charter rates for product tankers and dry bulk vessels have declined sharply since the highs of 2008. The increase of supply (because of the newbuilding deliveries) and the decrease of demand (because of the decrease in world production and/or consumption) drove down charter rates during 2009 and 2010. Freight 7 Table of Contents rates started falling during the fourth quarter of 2008 and weakened gradually to the lowest level in September 2009 followed by a steady upturn in the fourth quarter of 2009. During 2010, the rapid growth of the product tanker fleet has clearly had a debilitating impact on the freight market at a time when trade was recovering from the downturn of 2009. The downturn resulted in lower operating revenues for the product tanker charter markets, especially during the second half of the year. According to market reports, the products tanker market did not perform well during 2010. The dirty products market has been especially downbeat, with earnings remaining below $10,000/day for much of 2010. The clean products market initially offered some resistance to the slowdown in oil demand, but as the fleet has continued to grow, the availability of spot tonnage soon outstripped demand. The decline in charter rates in the product tanker market has resulted in a commensurate decline in our tanker vessel values, which in turn has affected our cash flows and liquidity. During 2010, the two main Baltic Tanker Indices that reflect the market dynamics, BDTI (for crude tankers that carry crude oil or residual fuel oil, or dirty products) and BCTI (for product tankers that carry refined petroleum products, or clean products), are each still approximately 26% below their respective 10 year market averages. The 10 year (2001-2010) average of BDTI was 1,201 points while the average of the same index for 2010 was 896.10 points. The other tanker index, BCTI, had a 10 year average of 989.99 points, while the average for 2010 was 732 points. Both indices followed a similar change, but BDTI experienced more volatility. Seaborne dry bulk trade increased slightly by more than 2% annually during the 1990s, while the average growth was 5.6% annually between 2000 and 2008. During 2009, dry bulk trade decreased by 3%, but the market was stronger than expected as China increased its imports by 41% to partially offset the 107 million ton decrease in the rest of the world. In 2010, dry bulk trade started to rebound, with an annual expected growth of 11%, as compared with the dry bulk trade of 2009, due to the fast recovery of world production, especially of the Asian countries (China and India). However, the dry bulk market fell again during 2011, with the capesize 4 Time Charter routes having been at historical lows in May 2011, with average daily charter rate at below $10,000 per day. If the market remains at or below these levels, it will have a negative effect on our earnings. During 2011, two of our tanker vessels (two Handy tankers) will participate in the Handymax tanker pool of Scorpio Ship Management (“Scorpio”) and the charter of one of our Panamax tankers is expiring. In addition, one of our dry bulk vessels is in the spot market, one of our dry bulk vessels is time chartered with floating hire based on the market index (BPI), and the time charters for three of our dry bulk vessels are expected to expire sometime during 2011. If the current low charter rates in the product tanker and dry bulk markets continue through a significant portion of 2011, and we are consequently exposed to then-prevailing charter rates, our earnings may be adversely affected. If these trends continue, in order to remain viable, we may have to extend the period during which we suspend dividend payments and/or sell vessels in our fleet. At the same time, we endeavor to charter several vessels in our fleet under period charters with floor hire rates plus profit sharing elements in order to benefit from a potential increase in the charter market. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into such period charters with upside potential. Our impairment analysis on long lived assets and goodwill performed for the year ended December 31, 2010 resulted in impairment losses of $39.5 million. However, the current assumptions used and the estimates made are highly subjective and could be negatively impacted by further significant deterioration in charter rates or vessel utilization over the remaining life of the vessels, which could require us to record a material impairment charge in future periods. A further economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could exacerbate the effect of recent slowdowns in the economies of the United States and the European Union and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We anticipate that a significant number of the port calls made by our vessels will continue to involve the loading or discharging of commodities in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, negative changes in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, particularly in China, may exacerbate the effect of recent slowdowns in the economies of the United States and the European Union and may have a material adverse 8 Table of Contents effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. In recent years, China has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, which has had a significant impact on shipping demand. China’s rate of growth, which was higher than 10% per year from 2005 until the first half of 2008, declined significantly in the second half of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009. Despite its fast recovery during 2010, China and other countries in the Asia Pacific region are likely to continue to experience slowed economic growth in the near future. Moreover, the current economic slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union and other Asian countries may further adversely affect economic growth in China and other emerging countries. Our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, will likely be materially and adversely affected by a further economic downturn in any of these countries. Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the government to regulate its economy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) in such respects as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation and balance of payments position. Prior to 1978, the Chinese economy was a planned economy. Since 1978, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy. Annual and five-year state plans are adopted by the Chinese government in connection with the development of the economy. Although state-owned enterprises still account for a substantial portion of the Chinese industrial output, in general, the Chinese government is reducing the level of direct control that it exercises over the economy through state plans and other measures. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a “market economy” and enterprise reform. Limited price reforms were undertaken, with the result that prices for certain commodities are principally determined by market forces. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition based upon the outcome of such experiments. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue a policy of economic reform, the level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws, regulations or export and import restrictions, all of which could, adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The earthquake and resulting tsunami and nuclear power plant crisis that struck Japan in March 2011 could, in the near term, reduce tanker and dry bulk trade to and from Japan, affect global charter rates and adversely affect our business. In March 2011, a severe earthquake struck northern Japan. The earthquake created a severe tsunami, the effects of which were felt in Japan and other countries along the eastern cost of Asia and across the Pacific Ocean. In addition, the earthquake and resulting tsunami have caused several nuclear power plants located in Japan to fail and emit radiation which possibly could result in meltdowns that could have catastrophic effects. Recently, the Japanese economy has fallen back into recession and the outlook for growth remains unclear in the near term. The full effect of these disasters, both on the Japanese and global economies and the environment, are not currently known, and may not be known for a significant period of time. These disasters will likely result in less tanker and dry bulk trade to and from Japan, in the short term, and could reduce charter rates globally in the short term. In addition, there can be no assurances that vessels trading in the Pacific may not be impacted by the possible effects of spreading radiation. These disasters and the resulting economic effects, both in the region and globally, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents The value of our vessels may fluctuate, which may adversely affect our liquidity. Vessel values can fluctuate substantially over time due to a number of different factors, including: • general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; • increase/decrease in demand for vessels’ acquisitions; • the types and sizes of available vessels; • increase/decrease in the supply of tonnage capacity; • expected newbuilding deliveries and future market expectations; • the cost of newbuildings; • availability of acquisition finance; • prevailing charter rates; and • technological advances in vessel design or equipment, changes in applicable environmental or other regulations or standards, or otherwise. In addition, as vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. Due to the cyclical nature of the product tanker and dry bulk vessel markets, if for any reason we sell vessels at a time when prices have fallen, we could incur a loss and our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends in the future could be adversely affected. An oversupply of tanker capacity may lead to reductions in charter rates, which could materially adversely affect our profitability. The product tanker fleet (including Handy, Panamax and Aframax sizes) expanded by 4.7% to 106.31 million dwt between December 2009 and December 2010, while the increase in the total tanker fleet was approximately 4.2% to 451.24 million dwt during the same period. As of December 2010, tankers on order represented 27.8% of the existing fleet, and the supply of tankers, which is affected by a number of factors as described above, is expected to increase both in 2011 and 2012. However, the phase out of single-hull tankers due to environmental and safety legislation and concerns, as well as the conversion of tankers to non-tanker purposes, are expected to prevent fleet growth from a large oversupply. Triggered by a retrenchment in import demand in major developed countries and more restricted access to trade financing, trade flows fell at an annualized rate of between 30% and 50% in most economies in late 2008 and early 2009. Asian economies experienced the sharpest decline. Import demand from consumption and business investment in Asia remained weak during this period. Global demand for crude oil and refined products dropped in 2009. As a result, the tanker market suffered long periods of depressed hire rates in 2009. World crude oil and liquid fuels consumption grew by an estimated 2.4 million barrels per day (“bbl/d”) in 2010, to 86.7 million bbl/d, the second largest annual increase in at least 30 years. EIA expects that world liquid fuels consumption will grow by 1.5 million bbl/d in 2011 and by an additional 1.6 million bbl/d in 2012. Trading patterns change as developing countries search for new areas to source their oil supplies. There has been an increase in the shipping fixtures for moving crude oil from West Africa and the Caribbean to India and the Far East. India is expected to have a positive impact in the short- to medium-term, as many new Indian refinery projects are coming online in the next few years, which will result in increased transportation of crude oil into India and an increase in demand for transportation of refined oil products out of India, along with an increase in demand for transportation of refined oil over long distances. However, this increase in demand may not fully offset any oversupply of tanker capacity. If there is an oversupply of tanker capacity, this may result in a reduction of charter rates. If a reduction in charter rates occurs, upon the expiration or termination of our vessels’ current charters, we may only be able to re-charter our vessels at reduced or unprofitable rates or we may not be able to charter these vessels at all, which could lead to a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 10 Table of Contents An oversupply of dry bulk vessel capacity may lead to further reductions in charter rates, and disproportionately affect older vessels, which could materially adversely affect our profitability. The market supply of dry bulk vessels has been increasing, and the carrying capacity (measured in dwt) on order is at a historically high level. As of December 2010, approximately 278.5 million dwt of dry bulk vessels are on order, representing approximately 53% of the existing fleet. This may lead to an oversupply of dry bulk vessel capacity, especially of Capesize bulkers, which is experiencing the highest level of orders, resulting in a reduction of charter rates and a decrease in the value of our dry bulk vessels. Even in the case of high order cancellations and high delayed deliveries, new deliveries are expected to be higher than usual and it is unclear whether this increase of supply will be absorbed by the increase of demand. Significant fleet expansion would cap rate levels over the next couple of years. The reduction in rates may affect the ability of our customers who charter our dry bulk vessels to make charter hire payments to us. This and other factors affecting the supply and demand for dry bulk vessels are outside our control and the nature, timing and degree of changes in the industry may affect the ability of our charterers to make charter hire payments to us. During periods when the shipping industry is experiencing excess capacity, falling demand and/or declining rates, older vessels are generally adversely affected in a disproportionate manner because newer vessels are generally preferred by customers. As the severity and length of such periods increase, the scrap rate for older vessels tends to rise because the costs for keeping an older vessel in the fleet may exceed the benefits. However, we may be unable to scrap some of our older vessels if, for example, such vessels have loan obligations that exceed their scrap values. In such a case, we may be restricted from taking the most economically prudent course of action, which may negatively affect our results of operations. See also “— The risks and costs associated with vessels increase as the vessels age.” Disruptions in world financial markets and the resulting governmental action in the United States and in other parts of the world could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could cause the market price of our common shares to further decline. Many parts of the world experienced deteriorating economic trends and were in a recession in 2008 and 2009 and continued to experience weakness in 2010 and 2011. Despite recent signs of recovery, the outlook for the world economy remains uncertain. General market volatility has resulted from uncertainty about sovereign debt and fears of countries such as Greece, Portugal and Ireland defaulting on their governments’ financial obligations. In addition, continued hostilities in the Middle East, recent tensions in North Africa and the continuing effects of the March 2011 natural disasters in Japan could adversely affect the economies of the United States and other countries. The credit markets in the United States have experienced significant contraction, deleveraging and reduced liquidity, and the United States’ federal government and state governments have implemented and are considering a broad variety of governmental action and/or new regulation of the financial markets. Securities and futures markets and the credit markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The SEC, other regulators, self-regulatory organizations and exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies, and may effect changes in law or interpretations of existing laws. Recently, a number of financial institutions have experienced serious financial difficulties and, in some cases, have entered bankruptcy proceedings or are in regulatory enforcement actions. The uncertainty surrounding the future of the credit markets in the United States and the rest of the world has resulted in reduced access to credit worldwide. As of December 31, 2010, we had total outstanding indebtedness of approximately $588.7 million which is net of the $69.1 million of beneficial convertion feature, or BCF, related to the $125.0 million of 7% Notes. We face risks attendant to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates, and instability in the banking and securities markets around the world, among other factors. Major market disruptions and the current adverse changes in market conditions and regulatory climate in the United States and worldwide may adversely affect our business or impair our ability to borrow amounts under our $221.4 million facility agreement, referred to herein as the “Facility Agreement”, or any future financial arrangements. We cannot predict how long the current market conditions will last. However, these recent and developing economic and 11 Table of Contents governmental factors, together with the concurrent decline in charter rates and vessel values, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, have caused the trading price of our common shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market to decline and could cause the price of our common shares to continue to decline. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in certain regions of the world, such as the South China Sea and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Throughout 2008 to 2010, the frequency of piracy incidents increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia, with dry bulk vessels and tankers particularly vulnerable to such attacks. One example of the increase in piracy came in November 2008, when the M/V Sirius Star, a crude oil tanker which was not affiliated with us, was captured by pirates in the Indian Ocean while carrying crude oil estimated to be worth approximately $100 million. More recently, in April 2010, the M/V Samho Dream, another crude oil tanker not affiliated with us, was captured off the Somali coast while carrying approximately $170 million in crude oil. In December 2009, the M/V Navios Apollon, a cargo vessel not affiliated with us, was seized by pirates 800 miles off the coast of Somalia while transporting fertilizer from Tampa, Florida to Rozi, India. The vessel was released in late February 2010 upon the payment of an unreported sum of money. In April 2009, the Maersk Alabama, a cargo vessel not affiliated with us, was captured by pirates off the coast of Somalia and was released following military action by the U.S. Navy. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized as “war risk” zones by insurers, as the Gulf of Aden temporarily was in May 2008, or Joint War Committee (JWC) “war and strikes” listed areas, premiums payable for insurance coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including costs due to employing onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. In addition, while we believe the charterer of a pirated vessel would remain liable for charter payments while the vessel is seized by pirates, the charterer may dispute this and withhold charter payments until the vessel is released. A charterer may also claim that a vessel seized by pirates was not “on-hire” for a certain number of days and it is therefore entitled to cancel the charter party, a claim that we would dispute. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, any detention and/or hijacking of our vessels as a result of an act of piracy, or an increase in cost or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to reinstate the payment of dividends. Increases in fuel, or bunker prices, may adversely affect profits. While we generally do not bear the cost of fuel, or bunkers, under our time charters, fuel is a significant factor in negotiating charter rates. As a result, an increase in the price of fuel beyond our expectations may adversely affect our profitability at the time of charter negotiation or when our vessels trade in the spot market. Fuel is also a significant, if not our largest, expense in our shipping operations when vessels are under voyage charter. Increases in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Further, fuel may become much more expensive in the future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental and safety laws and regulations, that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business and consequently our results of operations. The shipping business and vessel operation are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws, and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. Many of these requirements 12 Table of Contents are designed to reduce the risk of oil spills, air emissions or other pollution. Because such conventions, laws and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with such conventions, laws and regulations, or the impact thereof on the fair market price or useful life of our vessels. Compliance with these laws and regulations, as well as with standards imposed by maritime self-regulatory organizations and customer requirements or competition, may require us to make capital and other expenditures; affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels; require reductions in cargo capacity, ship modifications or other operational changes or restrictions; lead to reduced availability of insurance coverage or increased policy costs; or result in denial of access to certain jurisdictional ports or waters, or detention in certain ports. In order to satisfy any such requirements, we may be required to take our vessels out of service for extended periods of time, with corresponding losses of revenues. In the future, market conditions may not justify these expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably, particularly older vessels, during the remainder of their economic lives. This could lead to significant asset write-downs. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or suspension or termination of our operations. We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our operations. A decision by an agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed permit, license or certificate, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing one, could materially adversely affect our operations. Government regulation of vessels, particularly environmental and safety requirements, may become stricter in the future and require us to incur significant capital expenditure on our vessels to keep them in compliance, or even to scrap or sell certain vessels altogether. Additional legislation or amendments to existing legislation is expected in areas such as ship recycling, sewage systems, emission control (including emission of greenhouse gases) and ballast treatment and handling. For example, amendments to revise the regulations of the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, or MARPOL, regarding the prevention of air pollution from ships were approved and formally adopted by the Marine Environment Protection Committee, or MEPC, in October 2008. The amendments establish a series of progressive standards limiting the sulfur content in fuel oil and new tiers of nitrogen oxide emission standards for new marine diesel engines. The amendments entered into force in July 2010 and we incurred significant costs for compliance. Similarly, even more stringent controls of air emissions from ocean-going vessels have been adopted for European Baltic and North Atlantic waters and for the U.S. / Canadian coasts. The phasing in of such standards may require significant capital expenditures or operating expenses (such as increased costs for low-sulfur fuel) in order for us to maintain compliance. In addition, various jurisdictions and regulatory organizations, including the International Maritime Organization, or the IMO, the U.S. and states within the U.S., have proposed or implemented requirements relating to the management of ballast water to prevent the introduction of foreign invasive species having adverse ecological impacts. Significant expenditures for the installation of new equipment or new systems on board our vessels and changes in operating procedure may be necessary to comply with future regulations regarding ballast water management. Such future regulations may also result in increased port disposal costs. Additionally, as a result of marine accidents in recent years, safety regulation of the shipping industry is likely to continue to become more stringent and more expensive for us and our competitors. The IMO and the European Union have both accelerated their existing phase-out schedules for vessels without double hulls in response to highly publicized oil spills and shipping accidents involving companies unrelated to us. Legislation is also being discussed that would subject vessels to centralized routing. Future incidents may result in the adoption of even more stringent laws and regulations, which could limit our operations or our ability to do business, require capital expenditures or otherwise increase our cost of doing business, which may adversely affect our operations, as well as the shipping industry generally. 13 Table of Contents We could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations and natural resource damages, in the event there is a release of oil or other hazardous substances from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our operations. For all vessels, including those operated under our fleet, at present, international liability for bunker oil pollution is governed by the International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage, or the Bunker Convention. In 2001, the IMO adopted the Bunker Convention, which imposes strict liability on ship owners for pollution damage in jurisdictional waters of ratifying states caused by discharges of “bunker oil.” The Bunker Convention defines “bunker oil” as “any hydrocarbon mineral oil, including lubricating oil, used or intended to be used for the operation or propulsion of the ship, and any residues of such oil.” The Bunker Convention also requires registered owners of ships over a certain size to maintain insurance for pollution damage in an amount equal to the limits of liability under the applicable national or international limitation regime (but not exceeding the amount calculated in accordance with the Convention on Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims of 1976, as amended, or the 1976 Convention). The Bunker Convention entered into force on November 21, 2008, and in early 2011 it was in effect in 58 countries. In other jurisdictions, liability for spills or releases of oil from ships’ bunkers continues to be determined by the national or other domestic laws in the jurisdiction where the events or damages occur. With respect to oil pollution liability, generally, many countries have ratified and follow the liability plan adopted by the IMO and set out in the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, as amended in 2000, or the CLC. Under this convention, and depending on whether the country in which the damage results is a party to the CLC, a registered owner of a tanker that is carrying a cargo of “persistent oil” as defined by the CLC is strictly liable for pollution damage caused in the territorial waters of a contracting state by discharge of persistent oil, subject to certain complete defenses and liability limits. This liability is subject to a financial limit calculated by reference to the tonnage of the ship. The right to limit liability may be lost if the spill is caused by the owner’s intentional or reckless conduct. Vessels trading to states that are parties to these conventions must provide evidence of insurance covering the liability of the owner. When a tanker is carrying clean oil products that do not constitute “persistent oil” for the purposes of CLC, liability for any pollution damage will generally fall outside the CLC and will depend on national or other domestic laws in the jurisdiction where the spillage occurs. The United States is not a party to the CLC. In jurisdictions where the CLC has not been adopted, various legislative schemes or common law govern, and liability is imposed either on the basis of fault or in a manner similar to that of the CLC. The most widely applicable international regime limiting maritime pollution liability is the 1976 Convention referred to above. Rights to limit liability under the 1976 Convention are forfeited when a spill is caused by a shipowner’s intentional or reckless conduct. Certain states have ratified the IMO’s 1996 Protocol, or the 1996 LLMC Protocol, to the 1976 Convention. The 1996 LLMC Protocol provides for substantially higher the liability limits to apply in those jurisdictions than the limits set forth in the 1976 Convention. Finally, some jurisdictions are not a party to either the 1976 Convention or the 1996 LLMC Protocol, and, therefore, a shipowner’s rights to limit liability for maritime pollution in such jurisdictions may be uncertain. Environmental legislation in the United States merits particular mention as it is in many respects more onerous than international laws, representing a high-water mark of regulation with which ship owners and operators must comply, and of liability likely to be incurred in the event of non-compliance or an incident causing pollution. U.S. federal legislation, including notably the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or the OPA, establishes an extensive regulatory and liability regime for the protection and cleanup of the environment from oil spills, including bunker oil spills from dry bulk vessels as well as cargo or bunker oil spills from tankers. The OPA affects all shipowners and operators whose vessels trade in the United States, its territories and possessions, or whose vessels operate in U.S. waters, which includes the United States’ territorial sea and its 200-nautical-mile exclusive economic zone. Under the OPA, vessel owners, operators and bareboat charterers are “responsible parties” and are jointly, severally and strictly liable (unless the spill results solely from the act or omission of a third party, an act of God or an act of war) for all containment and clean-up costs and other damages arising from discharges or substantial threats of discharges of oil from their vessels. In response to the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil incident in the Gulf of Mexico, the U.S. House of Representatives passed, and the U.S. Senate considered but did not pass a bill to strengthen certain requirements of the OPA; similar 14 Table of Contents legislation may be introduced in the 112th Congress. In addition to potential liability under the OPA, vessel owners may in some instances incur liability on an even more stringent basis under state law in the particular state where the spillage occurred. In some areas of regulation of ship-source pollution, the EU has introduced new laws without attempting to procure a corresponding amendment of international law. Notably, in 2005, it adopted a directive on ship-source pollution, imposing criminal sanctions for pollution not only where this is caused by intent or recklessness (which would be an offence under the MARPOL), but also where it is caused by “serious negligence”. There is skepticism that the notion of “serious negligence” is likely to prove any narrower in practice than ordinary negligence. The directive could therefore result in criminal liability being incurred in circumstances where it would not be incurred under international law. Criminal liability for a pollution incident could not only result in us incurring substantial penalties or fines, but may also, in some jurisdictions, facilitate civil liability claims for greater compensation than would otherwise have been payable. We currently maintain, for each of our owned vessels, insurance coverage against pollution liability risks in the amount of $1.0 billion per incident. The insured risks include penalties and fines as well as civil liabilities and expenses resulting from accidental pollution. However, this insurance coverage is subject to exclusions, deductibles and other terms and conditions. If any liabilities or expenses fall within an exclusion from coverage, or if damages from a catastrophic incident exceed the $1.0 billion limitation of coverage per incident, our cash flow, profitability and financial position could be adversely impacted. Climate change and government laws and regulations related to climate change could negatively impact our financial condition. In addition to other climate-related risks set forth in this “Risk Factors” section, we are and will be, directly and indirectly, subject to the effects of climate change and may, directly or indirectly, be affected by government laws and regulations related to climate change. A number of countries have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The IMO has announced its intention to develop limits on greenhouse gases from international shipping and is working on technical and operational measures to reduce emissions. In addition, while the emissions of greenhouse gases from international shipping are not subject to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which requires adopting countries to implement national programs to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, a new treaty may be adopted in the future that includes restrictions on shipping emissions. The European Union has also indicated that it intends to propose an expansion of the existing European Union emissions trading scheme to include greenhouse gas emission from marine vessels. Similarly, the U.S. EPA is considering petitions to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from marine vessels. We cannot predict with any degree of certainty what effect, if any, possible climate change and government laws and regulations related to climate change will have on our operations, whether directly or indirectly. While we believe that it is difficult to assess the timing and effect of climate change and pending legislation and regulation related to climate change on our business, we believe that climate change, including the possible increase in severe weather events resulting from climate change, and government laws and regulations related to climate change may affect, directly or indirectly, (i) the cost of the vessels we may acquire in the future, (ii) our ability to continue to operate as we have in the past, (iii) the cost of operating our vessels, and (iv) insurance premiums, deductibles and the availability of coverage. As a result, our financial condition could be negatively impacted by significant climate change and related governmental regulation, and that impact could be material. We are subject to international safety regulations and the failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to increased liability, may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the IMO International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or ISM Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive “Safety Management System” that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth 15 Table of Contents instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. For example, the United States Coast Guard and European Union authorities have indicated that vessels not in compliance with the ISM Code will be prohibited from trading in ports in the United States and European Union. As of the date of this report, each of our vessels is ISM code-certified. However, there can be no assurance that such certification will be maintained indefinitely. Our vessels may suffer damage due to the inherent operational risks of the seaborne transportation industry and we may experience unexpected dry-docking costs, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our vessels and their cargoes will be at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather, business interruptions caused by mechanical failures, grounding, fire, explosions and collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. These hazards may result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, delay or rerouting. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a dry-docking facility. The costs of dry-dock repairs are unpredictable and may be substantial. We may have to pay dry-docking costs that our insurance does not cover in full. The loss of revenue while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. In addition, space at dry-docking facilities is sometimes limited and not all dry-docking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable dry-docking facility or our vessels may be forced to travel to a dry-docking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels’ positions. The loss of revenue while these vessels are forced to wait for space or to steam to more distant dry-docking facilities would decrease our earnings. For example, on October 8, 2010, the Grand Rodosi, one of our bulk carriers, was involved in a collision with a docked fishing vessel at Port Lincoln, Australia. While no personal injuries or environmental damage were incurred, the collision resulted in physical damage to the two vessels. The damage was fully covered by our insurance. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover our losses that may result from our operations, which are subject to the inherent operational risks of the seaborne transportation industry. We carry insurance to protect us against most of the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of our business, including marine hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes pollution risks, crew insurance and war risk insurance. However, we may not be adequately insured to cover losses from all of our operational risks, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Even if our insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to obtain a timely replacement, which may result in the loss of revenue. Additionally, our insurers may refuse to pay particular claims and our insurance may be voidable by the insurers if we take, or fail to take, certain action, such as failing to maintain certification of our vessels with applicable maritime regulatory organizations. Any significant uninsured or under-insured loss or liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates in the future during adverse insurance market conditions. As a result of the September 11, 2001 attacks, the U.S. response to the attacks and the related concerns regarding terrorism, insurers have increased premiums and reduced or restricted coverage for losses caused by terrorist acts generally. Accordingly, premiums payable for terrorist coverage have increased substantially and the level of terrorist coverage has been significantly reduced. In addition, while we carry loss of hire insurance to cover 100% of our fleet, we may not be able to maintain this level of coverage. Accordingly, any loss of a vessel or extended vessel off-hire, due to an accident or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends, if reinstated to our shareholders in the future. 16 Table of Contents Because we obtain some of our insurance through protection and indemnity associations, we may also be subject to calls in amounts based not only on our own claim records, but also on the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations. We may be subject to calls in amounts based not only on our claim records but also on the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive insurance coverage for tort liability, including pollution-related liability. Our payment of these calls could result in significant expense to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel that is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. The risks and costs associated with vessels increase as the vessels age. The costs to operate and maintain a vessel in operation increase with the age of the vessel. The average age of our bulker fleet is 15.4 years and the average age of our tanker fleet 6.6 years. Most dry bulk and tanker vessels have an expected life ranging between 25 to 30 years. In some instances, charterers prefer newer vessels that are more fuel efficient than older vessels. Cargo insurance rates also increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers as well. In addition, older vessels could have loan obligations in excess of their scrap value. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of the vessels may require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which these vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. If we sell vessels, we may have to sell them at a loss, and if charterers no longer charter-out vessels due to their age, our earnings could be materially adversely affected. A failure to pass inspection by classification societies could result in one or more vessels being unemployable unless and until they pass inspection, resulting in a loss of revenues from such vessels for that period and a corresponding decrease in operating cash flows. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and with International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, or SOLAS. Our fleet is currently enrolled with Bureau Veritas, American Bureau of Shipping, Registro Italiano Navale (RINA) and Det Norske Veritas. A vessel must undergo an annual survey, an intermediate survey and a special survey. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel’s machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Our vessels are on special survey cycles for hull inspection and continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection. Every vessel may be also required to be dry-docked every two to three years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. If any vessel fails any annual survey, intermediate survey or special survey, the vessel may be unable to trade between ports and, therefore, would be unemployable, potentially causing a negative impact on our revenues due to the loss of revenues from such vessel until she is able to trade again. If we purchase any newbuilding vessels, delays, cancellations or non-completion of deliveries of newbuilding vessels could harm our operating results. If we purchase any newbuilding vessels, the shipbuilder could fail to deliver the newbuilding vessel as agreed or their counterparty could cancel the purchase contract if the shipbuilder fails to meet its obligations. In addition, under charters we may enter into that are related to a newbuilding vessel, if our delivery of the newbuilding vessel to our customer is delayed, we may be required to pay liquidated damages during the 17 Table of Contents delay. For prolonged delays, the customer may terminate the charter and, in addition to the resulting loss of revenues, we may be responsible for additional, substantial liquidated damages. The completion and delivery of newbuilding vessels could be delayed, cancelled or otherwise not completed because of: • quality or engineering problems; • changes in governmental regulations or maritime self-regulatory organization standards; • work stoppages or other labor disturbances at the shipyard; • bankruptcy or other financial crisis of the shipbuilder; • a backlog of orders at the shipyard; • political or economic disturbances; • weather interference or catastrophic event, such as a major earthquake or fire; • requests for changes to the original vessel specifications; • shortages of or delays in the receipt of necessary construction materials, such as steel; • inability to finance the construction or conversion of the vessels; or • inability to obtain requisite permits or approvals. In addition to the above, we are currently facing liquidity constraints that may result in our inability to make contractual payments in a timely manner or at all, which may negatively affect our ability to accept delivery of newbuilding vessels in a timely manner. If delivery of a vessel is materially delayed, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Labor interruptions could disrupt our business. Our vessels are manned by masters, officers and crews that are employed by third parties. If not resolved in a timely and cost-effective manner, industrial action or other labor unrest could prevent or hinder our operations from being carried out as we expect and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends, if reinstated in the future. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels through foreclosure proceedings, which would interrupt our business. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting or attaching a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our business or require us to pay large sums of money to have the arrest lifted, which would have a negative effect on our cash flows. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. As a result, claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another vessel in our fleet. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency without adequate compensation. A government could requisition or seize our vessels. Under requisition for title, a government takes control of a vessel and becomes its owner. Under requisition for hire, a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes its charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition, the amount 18 Table of Contents and timing of payment would be uncertain. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate our vessels worldwide and, as a result, our vessels are exposed to international risks that could reduce revenue or increase expenses. The international shipping industry is an inherently risky business involving global operations. Our vessels are at risk of damage or loss because of events such as mechanical failure, collision, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, cargo loss, natural disasters and bad weather. In addition, changing economic, regulatory and political conditions in some countries, including political and military conflicts, have from time to time resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways, piracy, terrorism, labor strikes and boycotts. These sorts of events could interfere with shipping routes and result in market disruptions that may reduce our revenue or increase our expenses. Terrorist attacks and international hostilities can affect the seaborne transportation industry, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We conduct most of our operations outside of the United States, and our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected by changing economic, political and government conditions in the countries and regions where our vessels are employed or registered. Moreover, we operate in a sector of the economy that is likely to be adversely impacted by the effects of political instability, terrorist or other attacks, war or international hostilities. Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, in London on July 7, 2005 and in Mumbai on November 26, 2008 and the continuing response of the United States and others to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, continue to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The continuing presence of the United States and other armed forces in Iraq and Afghanistan may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenues and costs. Terrorist attacks on vessels, such as the October 2002 attack on the M/V Limburg, a very large crude carrier not related to us, may in the future also negatively affect our operations and financial condition and directly impact our vessels or our customers. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility and turmoil in the financial markets in the United States and globally. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and costs. We are subject to vessel security regulations and will incur costs to comply with recently adopted regulations and may be subject to costs to comply with similar regulations which may be adopted in the future in response to terrorism. Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, there have been a variety of initiatives intended to enhance vessel security. On November 25, 2002, the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002, or MTSA, came into effect. To implement certain portions of the MTSA, in July 2003, the U.S. Coast Guard issued regulations requiring the implementation of certain security requirements aboard vessels operating in waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. Similarly, in December 2002, amendments to the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, or SOLAS, created a new chapter of the convention dealing specifically with maritime security. The new chapter went into effect in July 2004, and imposes various 19 Table of Contents detailed security obligations on vessels and port authorities, most of which are contained in the newly created ISPS Code. Among the various requirements are: • on-board installation of automatic information systems, or AIS, to enhance vessel-to-vessel and vessel-to-shore communications; • on-board installation of ship security alert systems; • the development of vessel security plans; and • compliance with flag state security certification requirements. Furthermore, additional security measures could be required in the future which could have a significant financial impact on us. The U.S. Coast Guard regulations, intended to be aligned with international maritime security standards, exempt non-U.S. vessels from MTSA vessel security measures, provided such vessels had on board, by July 1, 2004, a valid International Ship Security Certificate, or ISSC, that attests to the vessel’s compliance with SOLAS security requirements and the ISPS Code. We have implemented and will continue implement the various security measures addressed by the MTSA, SOLAS and the ISPS Code and take measures for the vessels to attain compliance with all applicable security requirements within the prescribed time periods. Although management does not believe these additional requirements will have a material financial impact on our operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be an interruption in operations to bring vessels into compliance with the applicable requirements and any such interruption could cause a decrease in charter revenues. The cost of vessel security measures has also been affected by the dramatic escalation in recent years in the frequency and seriousness of acts of piracy against ships, notably off the coast of Somalia, including the Gulf of Aden and Arabian Sea area which could have a significant financial impact on us. Attacks of this kind have commonly resulted in vessels and their crews being detained for several months, and being released only on payment of large ransoms. Substantial loss of revenue and other costs may be incurred as a result of such detention. We insure against these losses to the extent practicable, but the risk remains that uninsured losses could significantly affect our business. Costs are incurred in taking additional security measures in accordance with Best Management Practices to Deter Piracy, notably those contained in the BMP3 industry standard. A number of flag states have signed the 2009 New York Declaration, which expresses commitment to Best Management Practices in relation to piracy and calls for compliance with them as an essential part of compliance with the ISPS Code. Economic sanctions and other international trade restrictions imposed by the United States, the European Union, and other jurisdictions could increase the legal compliance risks and costs associated with our international activities. Economic sanctions and/or other trade restrictions imposed by the United States or other governments or organizations, including the United Nations, the European Union and its member states, could increase the legal costs of, and risks associated with, our international operations. Under economic sanctions and related trade laws, governments may impose modifications to business activities and practices and modifications to compliance programs, which may increase compliance costs, increase the risk of violations of law, and, in the event of a violation of such laws, may subject us to fines and other penalties. Engaging in sanctions-triggering activity, such as that outlined under the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability and Divestment Act of 2010 (“CISADA”), could also result in the imposition of sanctions against us. In recent months, the scope of sanctions imposed against Iran and persons engaging in certain activities or doing certain business with or involving Iran has been expanded by a number of jurisdictions, including the United States, the EU, and Canada. The EU has strengthened sanctions against Iran by prohibiting a wider universe of transactions and activities involving Iran. CISADA, enacted by the United States, also strengthens existing U.S. sanctions against Iran, and, inter alia, provides for the imposition of sanctions against foreign (non-U.S.) entities that transport or otherwise supply refined petroleum products (“RPP”) to Iran. 20 Table of Contents We are monitoring developments in the United States, the EU and other jurisdictions that maintain sanctions programs, including developments in implementation and enforcement of such sanctions programs. Expansion of sanctions programs, embargoes and other restrictions in the future (including additional designations of countries or entities subject to sanctions), or modifications in how existing sanctions are interpreted or enforced, could prevent our tankers from calling on ports in sanctioned countries or could limit their cargoes and also could expose us to sanctions based on the activities of the vessels while the vessels are chartered out to third parties — even though we do not control such third parties. We constantly keep abreast of legal developments in the economic sanctions and trade restrictions area, and we adjust our compliance programs and internal policies accordingly. We believe that we are in compliance with all applicable laws, including all laws impacting the trade of our vessels with Iran and other countries identified by the United States as state sponsors of terrorism. Our vessels are not authorized to engage in unlawful trade, or, save for vessels acquired while already on charter, any sanctions-triggering activity. Moreover, our vessels’ trade with the foregoing countries is infrequent, and the revenue we derive from such activity is de minimus. Additionally, our vessels are not chartered to entities that have been designated as sanctions targets by the United States. In an affirmative step to guard against violations and to prevent our vessels from engaging in any sanctions-triggering trade, we now include provisions in all of our new charters designed to prevent our charter parties from violating applicable laws relating to existing sanctions and from engaging in sanctions-triggering activity. For example, as it relates to Iran, the provisions in the charter parties/contracts for our vessels contain exclusions that prohibit the use of our vessels in unlawful and/or sanctions-triggering trade with Iran. However, six of the vessels we acquired plus one newbuidling vessel that was delivered in December 2010, were already subject to charters that did not contain such provisions/exclusions. None of these vessels have made any call to Iran to date and four of these charter parties have now expired. With respect to Iran, none of our tankers engage in unlawful trade or in any activities that could trigger sanctions under CISADA. Only two of our tankers are capable, based on provisions of their current charter parties (which are due to expire in the second quarter of 2011), of transporting RPP, and thus only these two tankers could possibly be involved in transporting RPP to Iran in the future, which is an activity that would trigger sanctions under CISADA. We are seeking to amend these charters to incorporate relevant exclusions, but unless and until we do amend the charters, there is some risk that the charter parties could engage in activity that could (indirectly) cause us to violate applicable law, expose us to sanctions under CISADA and any similar laws, and, as a consequence, cause reputational and other damage that could have a material adverse impact on our business and operations. To mitigate the foregoing risk until the charter parties may be modified to include relevant exclusions and prohibitions, we have notified the charterers of the two tankers that they could face CISADA sanctions if they engage in CISADA sanctions-triggering trade with Iran (RPP deliveries) while using our vessels. Company Specific Risk Factors The report of our independent registered public accounting firm states that we may be unable to continue as a going concern The report of PricewaterhouseCoopers S.A., our independent registered public accountants, on our financial statements includes an explanatory paragraph stating that there is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements, however, were prepared using principles under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States of America (GAAP) applicable to a going concern. Over the past several months, we have experienced a decline in our liquidity and cash flows, which has affected, and which we expect will continue to affect, our ability to satisfy our obligations. Recently, charter rates for product tankers and bulkers have experienced a high degree of volatility. Currently, charter rates for product tankers are significantly lower than applicable historical averages and charter hire rates for bulkers, after showing signs of stabilization for a period, have declined to historical lows. 21 Table of Contents Furthermore, recent economic conditions have caused certain of our charterers to experience financial difficulties as well. This has resulted in an increase in the time it takes for us to realize our receivables. In certain instances, our charterers have been unable to fulfill their obligations under their charters. One of our charterers, who is chartering three of our vessels, is having difficulty performing its obligations and, since the end of March 2011, has been late on a number of payments causing us to arrest vessels which are owned by the particular charterer and/or by such charterer’s affiliated companies on two occasions in order to collect payment. These vessels are chartered out at rates significantly above market, and if we are forced to reclaim and re-charter these vessels (which there is no assurance that we could do), we expect a significant reduction in the cash flow from these vessels, which in turn would further impair our liquidity. Furthermore, we remain uncertain as to our ability to borrow the remaining $12.8 million approximately of undrawn amounts under our $62.0 million revolving credit facility. Negotiations with the bank are continuing, but there is no assurance that we will be able to fully draw down this amount, if at all. Certain of our debt arrangements, including our Facility Agreement, contain covenants that require us to maintain certain minimum financial ratios, including a minimum ratio of shareholders’ equity to total assets (starting from the third quarter of 2012), a minimum amount of working capital, and a minimum EBITDA to interest coverage ratio (starting from the third quarter of 2012). Our Facility Agreement requires that we maintain at all times a minimum amount of liquidity in the form of cash and cash equivalents equal to at least 5% of the outstanding loan at all times under such agreement. Moreover, certain of our other debt arrangements require that we maintain at all times a minimum amount of liquidity in the form of cash and cash equivalents equal to at least 5% of the total outstanding indebtedness. We are currently not in compliance with our minimum liquidity requirements under our loan agreements with West LB and Bank of Scotland (Junior and Senior Kamsarmax credit facilities) which results or will result in cross defaults with other loans. We have received notification from West LB that there is formal credit approval for the temporary waiver of the minimum liquidity covenant through March 31, 2012. This temporary waiver is subject to the execution of formal documentation. In addition, the adverse change in our liquidity position, absent receipt of waivers, will have a negative effect on our ability to remain in compliance with such covenants under our other loan agreements, and we expect to be in breach of the minimum liquidity requirements under various other debt agreements by June 30, 2011. As of June 30, 2011, we are still exploring financing and other options to increase our liquidity, including selling certain of our vessels, accessing the capital markets and/or incurring new indebtedness. Recently, we were unable to complete an offering of $120.0 million of senior secured notes due 2016 due to market conditions. In addition, our proposed public offering of common shares has not proceeded. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing or sell vessels on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, on June 30, 2011, we received notification from DVB Bank, as agent of a loan agreement with DVB Bank, Nord LB and Emporiki Bank that the Company is in breach of certain covenants in its loan agreement, with regard to a dispute under the shipbuilding contract to which the loan relates. Although we believe we are not in default of the loan agreement or the shipbuilding contract, there is no assurance that we would prevail in the above mentioned dispute as to such issue. Although we are seeking and will continue to seek waivers to these covenants from our lenders, it is uncertain that we will be able to obtain such waivers. We will seek to restructure our indebtedness. If we are not able to obtain the necessary waivers and/or restructure our debt, this could lead to the acceleration of the outstanding debt under our debt agreements that contain a minimum liquidity covenant or any other covenant that may be breached, which would result in the cross acceleration of our other outstanding indebtedness. Our failure to satisfy our covenants under our debt agreements, and any consequent acceleration and cross acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness, would have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and liquidity. All of the above raises substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Generally accepted accounting principles require that long-term debt be classified as a current liability when a covenant violation gives the lender the right to call the debt at the balance sheet date, absent a waiver. Accordingly, as of June 30, 2011, we will be required to reclassify our long term debt as current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet if we have not received waivers in respect of the covenants that are breached at such time. The financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern and 22 Table of Contents do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern. See also Item 5. “Operating and Review and Prospects — Going Concern” for more information. Under the terms of our facility agreement with Bank of Scotland as agent, dated October 13, 2009, certain financial covenants (excluding working capital and minimum liquidity) have been waived by our lenders until at least April 2012 and others have been waived until October 2012. Our other existing credit facilities and financing arrangements contain payment obligations and restrictive covenants that may limit our liquidity and our ability to expand our fleet. A failure by us to meet our obligations under our credit facilities and financing arrangements could result in an event of default under such credit facilities or financing arrangements. Such event could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to raise new capital. Prior to our recapitalization, the Company was in default under its $360.0 million fully revolving credit facility with Bank of Scotland and Nordea Bank Finland as lead arrangers and Bank of Scotland as agent which had an outstanding balance of $221.4 million on October 13, 2009. As part of the recapitalization our existing syndicate of lenders entered into a new $221.4 million facility agreement, referred to herein as the “Facility Agreement”, by and among us and the banks identified therein in order to refinance our existing revolving credit facility. On April 26, 2010, we entered into a supplemental deed, or the Deed, relating to this Facility Agreement. The Deed is supplemental to the Facility Agreement dated October 13, 2009, as supplemented and amended from time to time, and was entered into among us and the banks signatory thereto. Pursuant to the terms of the Deed, the minimum liquidity amount covenanted to under the original deed may be applied to prepayment of sums outstanding under the original loan without incurring an event of default. All amounts so applied will be made available by banks for re-borrowing without restriction and shall be deemed to constitute part of the minimum liquidity amount and be deemed to constitute cash for purposes of determining the minimum liquidity amount. Our facility agreements contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly impact our ability to operate our business and if we receive waivers and/or restructure our indebtedness, our lenders may impose additional restrictions on us and/or modify the terms of our existing loans. Any default or breach of the covenants in our debt agreements could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial position. As a result of our recapitalization, new financial covenants were put in place. Except for working capital (as defined in each respective facility agreement) and minimum liquidity, all other covenants will become effective in a period ranging from 30 to 36 months from the effective date of each of the facility agreements, to allow a sufficient period of time for management to implement its business strategy. Our facility agreements require us to maintain compliance with certain financial covenants as of the end of each fiscal quarter. They contain certain restrictions and limitations that could significantly limit our ability to operate our business. In the absence of a consent, these restrictions may limit our ability to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • create liens on our assets; • make investments; • engage in recapitalizations and acquisitions; • redeem capital stock; • make capital expenditures; • change the management of our vessels or terminate the management agreements we have relating to our vessels; • enter into long-term charter arrangements without the consent of the lender; and • sell any of our vessels. 23 Table of Contents In addition, our existing credit facilities require us to, among other things, maintain compliance with financial covenants, which include the maintenance of the following ratios (all as defined in the respective credit facilities): • specific ratios of shareholders’ equity as a percentage of our total assets, adjusting the book value of our fleet to its market value; • working capital of not less than zero dollars; • maintenance of minimum liquidity requirements at five per cent of the outstanding loans; • maintenance of ratio of EBITDA to interest payable to specific levels; • maintenance of specific value to loan ratios; • cash sweep on the earnings of the vessels; • minimum interest coverage ratios; and • minimum market adjusted equity ratios. As a result of such covenants, we will need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate and commercial actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business, and a denial of permission may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. Our lenders’ interests may be different from our interests, shareholders’ interests or the interests of the holders of our notes, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders’ permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest. Any future credit facility agreement may include similar or more restrictive restrictions. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our credit facility agreements and other indebtedness may be affected by economic, financial and industry conditions and other factors beyond our control. If we default on our obligations under the agreements governing our indebtedness, including a default under our credit facility agreements, and such default is not waived by the required lenders, the applicable creditors may accelerate such indebtedness and, in the absence of any agreement with the lenders, if such indebtedness is secured, such creditors could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. In any such case, we may be unable to borrow under our credit facility agreements and may not be able to repay the amounts due under our credit facility agreements and our outstanding notes. Furthermore, if any of our debt is accelerated, all of our other indebtedness may be accelerated pursuant to cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. This could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. Our ability to comply with these covenants in future periods will also depend substantially on the value of our assets, our charter rates, our success at keeping our costs low and our ability to successfully implement our overall business strategy. Any future credit agreement or amendment or debt instrument may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. Furthermore, in connection with any waivers and/or restructuring of our indebtedness, our lenders may impose additional requirements or restrictions on us. Such additional restrictions may further limit our ability to engage in actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our company. These covenants may also restrict our ability to fully draw on our existing revolving credit facilities, and in such event, any such restrictions could limit our ability to operate our business. For more information about our existing indebtedness, please refer to Item 5. “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Indebtedness.” We are highly leveraged and may incur substantial additional debt, which could materially adversely affect our financial health and our ability to obtain financing in the future, react to changes in our business and make debt service payments. As of December 31, 2010, our outstanding indebtedness, was $588.7 million, which is net of the $69.1 million BCF related to the $125.0 million of 7% Notes. Although the agreements governing our existing 24 Table of Contents indebtedness contain, and it is likely that any agreements governing our future indebtedness will contain, limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, we will still be able to incur a significant amount of additional indebtedness. Our high level of indebtedness could have important consequences to our shareholders. Because we are highly leveraged: • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, vessel or other acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired in the future; • if new debt is added to our debt levels, the related risks that we now face would increase and we may not be able to meet all of our debt obligations; • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes, and there can be no assurance that our operations will generate sufficient cash flow to service this indebtedness; • we will be exposed to the risk of increased interest rates because our borrowings under facility agreements will be at variable rates of interest; • it may be more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to our lenders, resulting in possible defaults on and acceleration of such indebtedness and the cross-acceleration or cross-default of our other indebtedness; • we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • we may be at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt or comparable debt at more favorable interest rates; • our ability to refinance indebtedness may be limited or the associated costs may increase; and • our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions and ability to withstand competitive pressures could be limited, or we may be prevented from carrying out capital spending that is necessary or important to our growth strategy and efforts to improve operating margins or our business. Highly leveraged companies are significantly more vulnerable to unanticipated downturns and set backs, whether directly related to their business or flowing from a general economic or industry condition, and therefore are more vulnerable to a business failure or bankruptcy. Accordingly, while we view our ability to obtain a high percentage of debt as a competitive advantage, it also heightens the risk of owning our securities. The market values of our vessels have declined and may further decrease, which could lead to the loss of our vessels and/or we may incur a loss if we sell vessels following a decline in their market value. The fair values of our vessels have generally experienced high volatility and have recently declined significantly and resulted in an impairment charge of $15.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. If we sell one or more of our vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our consolidated financial statements, the sale may be less than the vessel’s carrying value on our consolidated financial statements, resulting in a loss and a reduction in earnings. Furthermore, if vessel values fall significantly, we may have to record further impairment adjustments in our consolidated financial statements, which could materially adversely affect our financial results. In addition, any decline in vessel values could trigger loan covenant defaults in the future. 25 Table of Contents For the periods from January 1, 2009 to October 13, 2009 and from October 14, 2009 to December 31, 2009 and for the year ended December 31, 2008, we were dependent upon three significant charterers for a majority of our revenues, and for the year ended December 31, 2010, we received 43% of our revenue from continuing operations from three charterers, one of which is experiencing financial difficulties. We have historically derived a significant part of our revenue from a small number of charterers. For the year ended December 31, 2010, 43% of our revenue from continuing operations was derived from three charterers. One of these charterers, which is chartering three of our vessels and accounted for approximately 22% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010, is experiencing financial difficulties. See “Operating and Review and Prospects — Going Concern”. For the periods from January 1, 2009 to October 13, 2009 and from October 14, 2009 to December 31, 2009, and for the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 65%, 55% and 65%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from three charterers. The loss of charterers upon whom we have historically been dependent may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Further, after the sale of all the non-core vessels and the transfer of 14 vessels in total from Grandunion Inc., or Grandunion, we now operate a fleet of 22 vessels (including three newbuildings). Assuming that we sell one or more additional vessels in order to reduce the outstanding balance under our Facility Agreement and other loan agreements, we will operate a smaller fleet. If the size of our fleet decreases, we will become increasingly dependent upon a limited number of charterers for our revenues. Our charterers may terminate or default on their charters, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. When the charter agreements expire or terminate, we will need to find new employment for the affected vessels in the currently depressed charter market, which may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Our charterers may terminate their charters earlier than the dates indicated in their charter agreements. The terms of our charters vary as to which events or occurrences will cause a charter to terminate or give the charterer the option to terminate the charter, but these generally include a total or constructive total loss of the related vessel, the requisition for hire of the related vessel or the failure of the related vessel to meet specified performance criteria. In addition, the ability of each of our charterers to perform its obligations under a charter will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control. These factors may include general economic conditions, the condition of a specific shipping market sector, the charter rates received for specific types of vessels and various operating expenses. The costs and delays associated with the default by a charterer of a vessel may be considerable and may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Recent economic conditions have caused certain of our charterers to experience financial difficulties. This has resulted in an increase in the time it takes for us to realize our receivables. In certain instances, certain of our charterers have been unable to fulfill their obligations under their charters. One of our charterers, who is chartering three of our vessels, is having difficulty performing its obligations and, since the end of March 2011, has been late on a number of payments causing us to arrest vessels which are owned by the particular charterer and/or by charterer’s affiliated companies on two occasions in order to collect payment. These vessels are chartered out at rates significantly above market, and if we are forced to reclaim and re-charter these vessels (which there is no assurance that we could do), we expect a significant reduction in the cash flow from these vessels, which in turn would further impair our liquidity. We also cannot predict whether our charterers will, upon the expiration of their charters, recharter our vessels on favorable terms or at all. If our charterers decide not to recharter our vessels, we may not be able to recharter them on terms similar to the terms of our current charters. In the future, we may also employ our vessels on the spot charter market, which is subject to greater rate fluctuation than the time charter market. Recently, charter rates for product tankers and bulkers have experienced a high degree of volatility. Currently, charter hire rates for product tankers are significantly lower than applicable historical averages and charter rates for bulkers, after showing signs of stabilization for a period, have declined to historical lows. The time charters for eight of our vessels (including the newbuildings) currently provide for charter rates that are above current market rates. If we receive lower charter rates under replacement charters or are unable to 26 Table of Contents recharter all of our vessels, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, in depressed market conditions, our charterers may no longer need a vessel that is currently under charter or may be able to obtain a comparable vessel at lower rates. As a result, charterers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing charter parties or avoid their obligations under those contracts. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We periodically employ some of our vessels on a spot basis. The spot charter market is highly competitive and freight rates within this market are highly volatile, while longer-term charter contracts provide income at pre-determined rates over more extended periods of time. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in keeping our vessels fully employed in these short-term markets, or that future spot rates will be sufficient to enable such vessels to be operated profitably. A significant decrease in spot market rates or our inability to fully employ our vessels by taking advantage of the spot market would reduce the incremental revenue received from spot chartering and adversely affect our results of operations, including our profitability and cash flows, which, in turn, could impair our ability to service our debt. Our vessels may be subject to periods of off-hire, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under the terms of the charter agreements under which our vessels operate, or are expected to operate in the case of newbuilding vessels, when a vessel is “off-hire,” or not available for service or otherwise deficient in its condition or performance, the charterer generally is not required to pay the hire rate, and we will be responsible for all costs (including the cost of bunker fuel) unless the charterer is responsible for the circumstances giving rise to the lack of availability. A vessel generally will be deemed to be off-hire if there is an occurrence preventing the full working of the vessel due to, among other things: • operational deficiencies; • the removal of a vessel from the water for repairs, maintenance or inspection, which is referred to as drydocking; • equipment breakdowns; • delays due to accidents or deviations from course; • occurrence of hostilities in the vessel’s flag state; • crewing strikes, labor boycotts, certain vessel detentions or similar problems; or • our failure to maintain the vessel in compliance with its specifications, contractual standards and applicable country of registry and international regulations or to provide the required crew. Furthermore, while we believe the charterer of a pirated vessel would remain liable for charter payments while the vessel is seized by pirates, the charterer may dispute this and withhold charter payments until the vessel is released. A charterer may also claim that a vessel seized by pirates was not “on-hire” for a certain number of days and it is therefore entitled to cancel the charter party, a claim that we would dispute. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, any detention and/or hijacking of our vessels as a result of an act of piracy, or an increase in cost or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to reinstate the payment of dividends. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may negatively impact the effectiveness of our management and our results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team. We expect to enter into employment contracts with Nicholas G. Fistes, our Chairman, and Michail S. Zolotas, our Deputy Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, and we have entered into an employment agreement 27 Table of Contents with Allan L. Shaw, our Chief Financial Officer. Our success will depend upon our ability to retain key members of our management team and to hire new members as may be necessary. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining replacement personnel could have a similar effect. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance on any of our officers. If we are unable to operate our vessels efficiently, we may be unsuccessful in competing in the highly competitive international tanker market. The operation of tanker vessels and transportation of crude and petroleum products is extremely competitive. Competition arises primarily from other tanker owners, including major oil companies as well as independent tanker companies, some of whom have substantially greater resources than our own. Competition for the transportation of oil and oil products can be intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the tanker and its operators to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter the product tanker shipping markets and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions and may be able to offer lower charter rates and higher quality vessels than we are able to offer. Our market share may decrease in the future. We may not be able to compete profitably as we expand our business into new geographic regions or provide new services. New markets may require different skills, knowledge or strategies than we use in our current markets, and the competitors in those new markets may have greater financial strength and capital resources than we do. The operation of tankers involves certain unique operational risks. The operation of tankers has unique operational risks associated with the transportation of oil. An oil spill may cause significant environmental damage, and a catastrophic spill could exceed the insurance coverage available. Compared to other types of vessels, tankers are exposed to a higher risk of damage and loss by fire, whether ignited by a terrorist attack, collision, or other cause, due to the high flammability and high volume of the oil transported in tankers. If we are unable to maintain or safeguard our vessels adequately, we may be unable to prevent these events. Any of these circumstances or events could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. We may not be able to grow or effectively manage our growth, which may negatively impact our cash flows and operating results. A principal focus of our strategy is to grow by expanding our product tanker and dry bulk fleet as opportunities are identified. Our future growth will depend on a number of factors. These factors include our ability to: • identify vessels for acquisition; • consummate acquisitions; • integrate acquired vessels successfully with our existing operations; • identify businesses engaged in managing, operating or owning vessels for acquisitions or joint ventures; • hire, train and retain qualified personnel and crew to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; • identify additional new markets; • improve our operating, financial and accounting systems and controls; and • obtain required financing for our existing and new operations. 28 Table of Contents A deficiency in any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated growth in cash flows or realize other anticipated benefits. In addition, competition from other buyers could reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay a higher price than we might otherwise pay. The process of integrating acquired vessels into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties, may absorb significant management attention and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development and expansion of our existing operations. Future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional indebtedness and liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Further, if we issue additional common shares, your interest in our Company will be diluted. Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain our vessels may increase due to changes in governmental regulations or safety or other equipment standards. Changes in governmental regulations or safety or other equipment standards, as well as compliance with standards imposed by maritime self-regulatory organizations and customer requirements or competition, may require us to make additional expenditures to operate and maintain our vessels. These expenditures could increase as a result of changes in: • the cost of our labor and materials; • the cost of suitable replacement vessels; • customer/market requirements; • increases in the size of our fleet; and • governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards relating to safety, security or the environment. In order to satisfy these requirements, we may, from time to time, be required to take our vessels out of service for extended periods of time, with corresponding losses of revenues. In the future, market conditions may not justify these expenditures or enable us to operate some or all of our vessels profitably during the remainder of their economic lives. If we are unable to fund our capital expenditures, we may not be able to take delivery and/or operate our vessels, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. In order to fund our capital expenditures, we may be required to incur additional borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or equity securities. Our ability to access the capital markets through future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such offering as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Generally, significant capital expenditures are required to take delivery of our newbuilding vessels. In addition, our existing vessels may require significant capital expenditures, such as expenditures for scheduled and unscheduled dry-docking and regulatory compliance, to continue operations. As a result, the failure to obtain the funds necessary for our capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Unless we set aside reserves or are able to borrow funds for vessel replacement, our revenue will decline at the end of a vessel’s useful life, which would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Unless we maintain reserves or are able to borrow or raise funds for vessel replacement, we will be unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives, which we estimate to be at a range of 25 to 30 years. Our cash flows and income are dependent on the revenues earned by the chartering of our vessels to customers. If we are unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives, our business, results of operations and financial condition in the future will be materially and adversely 29 Table of Contents affected. Any reserves set aside for vessel replacement may not be available for dividends, if any, in the future. Exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations will result in fluctuations in our cash flows and operating results. Our vessel-owning subsidiaries generate revenues in U.S. dollars but incur certain expenses in other currencies, primarily Euros. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the value of the U.S. dollar reached a high of $1.46 and a low of $1.19 compared to the Euro. Due to the sovereign debt crisis in certain EU-member countries, the U.S. dollar-Euro exchange rate continues to experience volatility. An adverse or positive movement in these currencies could increase our expenses. During the the year ended December 31, 2010, the effect was minimal. Our incorporation under the laws of Bermuda may limit the ability of our shareholders to protect their interests. We are a Bermuda company. Our memorandum of association and bye-laws and the Bermuda Companies Act of 1981, as amended, or the BCA, govern our corporate affairs. Investors may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. Under Bermuda law, a director generally owes a fiduciary duty only to the company, not to the company’s shareholders. Our shareholders may not have a direct cause of action against our directors. In addition, Bermuda law does not provide a mechanism for our shareholders to bring a class action lawsuit. Further, our bye-laws provide for the indemnification of our directors or officers against any liability arising out of any act or omission, except for an act or omission constituting fraud or dishonesty. There is a statutory remedy under Section 111 of the BCA, which provides that a shareholder may seek redress in the courts as long as such shareholder can establish that our affairs are being conducted, or have been conducted, in a manner oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some of our shareholders, including such shareholder. If the recent volatility in LIBOR continues, it could affect our profitability, earnings and cash flow. LIBOR has recently been volatile, with the spread between LIBOR and the prime lending rate widening significantly at times. These conditions are the result of the recent disruptions in the international credit markets. Because the interest rates borne by our outstanding indebtedness fluctuate with changes in LIBOR, if this volatility were to continue, it would affect the amount of interest payable on our debt, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. Recently, however, lenders have insisted on provisions that entitle the lenders, in their discretion, to replace published LIBOR as the base for the interest calculation with their cost-of-funds rate. If we are required to agree to such a provision in future loan agreements, our lending costs could increase significantly, which would have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. It may not be possible for investors to enforce U.S. judgments against us. We and the majority of our subsidiaries are incorporated in jurisdictions outside the U.S. (with the exception of NewLead Holdings (US) LLC, which is incorporated in Delaware), and substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries are located outside the U.S. In addition, most of our directors and officers are non-residents of the U.S., and all or a substantial portion of the assets of such officers and directors are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to serve process within the U.S. upon us, our subsidiaries or our directors and officers or to enforce a judgment against us for civil liabilities in U.S. courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we or our subsidiaries are incorporated or where our or the assets of our subsidiaries are located (1) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our subsidiaries based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws or (2) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or our subsidiaries based on the laws of such jurisdictions. 30 Table of Contents U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property, and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime applicable to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC, and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our method of operation, we do not believe that we have been, are or will be a PFIC. In this regard, we treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our chartering activities does not constitute “passive income,” and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our method of operation. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders would face adverse and special U.S. tax consequences. Among other things, the distributions a shareholder received with respect to our shares and the gain, if any, a shareholder derived from his sale or other disposition of our shares would be taxable as ordinary income (rather than as qualified dividend income or capital gain, as the case may be), would be treated as realized ratably over his holding period in our common shares, and would be subject to an additional interest charge. However, a U.S. shareholder may be able to make certain tax elections that would ameliorate these consequences. See the discussion under “Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders — Passive Foreign Investment Company Status and Significant Tax Consequences.” We may have to pay tax on U.S.-source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the United States Internal Revenue Code, referred to herein as the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel-owning or chartering corporation, such as our Company and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as U.S.-source shipping income and is subject to a 4% United States federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the related treasury regulations, referred to herein as “Treasury Regulations”. We expect that we and each of our subsidiaries qualify for this statutory tax exemption, and we take this position for United States federal income tax reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to United States federal income tax on our U.S.-source income. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to exemption under Section 883 of the Code for any taxable year, the imposition of a 4% U.S. federal income tax on our U.S.-source shipping income and that of our subsidiaries could have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. See the discussion under “Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation of Our Company.” 31 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Common Shares There may not be an active market for our common shares, which may cause our common shares to trade at a discount and make it difficult to sell the common shares you purchase. We cannot assure you that an active trading market for our common shares will be sustained. We cannot assure you of the price at which our common shares will trade in the public market in the future or that the price of our shares in the public market will reflect our actual financial performance. You may not be able to resell your common shares at or above their current market price. Additionally, a lack of liquidity may result in wide bid-ask spreads, contribute to significant fluctuations in the market price of our common shares and limit the number of investors who are able to buy the common shares. The product tanker markets have been highly unpredictable and volatile. The market price of our common shares may be similarly volatile. Michail S. Zolotas, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Deputy Chairman, beneficially owns approximately 91% of our outstanding common shares and, as a result, he is able to influence the outcome of shareholder votes. As of December 31, 2010, Michail S. Zolotas, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Deputy Chairman, beneficially owns approximately 91% of our outstanding common shares through his ownership of common shares directly and through Grandunion, his beneficial ownership of the common shares underlying the 7% senior unsecured convertible notes (the “7% Notes”), and through Grandunion’s voting power over the shares subject to a voting agreement between Grandunion and Rocket Marine Inc., or Rocket Marine, a company controlled by two of our former directors and principal shareholders. For so long as Mr. Zolotas beneficially owns a significant percentage of our outstanding common shares, he will be able to control or influence the outcome of any shareholder vote, including the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our memorandum of association or bye-laws and possible recapitalizations, amalgamations, corporate control contests and other significant corporate transactions. This concentration of beneficial ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, recapitalization, amalgamation, consolidation, takeover or other business combination. This concentration of beneficial ownership could also discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which could in turn have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. In addition, this concentration of beneficial ownership has had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on the liquidity of our common shares. Anti-takeover provisions in our constitutional documents and in our loan/financing agreements could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a recapitalization, amalgamation or acquisition or other business combination, which could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Several provisions of our bye-laws and the loan/financing agreements to which we are party could discourage, delay or prevent a recapitalization or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable. These include provisions: • authorizing our board of directors to issue “blank check” preference shares without shareholder approval; • establishing a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • prohibiting us from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested shareholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person becomes an interested shareholder unless certain conditions are met; • not permitting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • authorizing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of our outstanding common shares; 32 Table of Contents • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders to our board of directors, subject to certain rights guaranteed to shareholders under the BCA; • requiring Grandunion, or Nicholas Fistes and Michail Zolotas, directly or indirectly, to maintain legal and beneficial ownership of not less than 10% of the issued and outstanding share capital of the Company (whereas in two loan agreements the requirement is for Michail Zolotas and Nicholas Fistes to maintain, directly or indirectly, legal and beneficial ownership of not less than 33.3% of the issued and outstanding share capital of the Company); • requiring Nicholas Fistes and Michail Zolotas to be at any given time the beneficial owners of at least 50.1% of the voting share capital of Grandunion; • requiring Nicholas Fistes and Michail Zolotas to remain at any given time the Chairman, and the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, respectively; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at our shareholder meetings. These provisions could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a recapitalization, amalgamation or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Our board of directors has determined to suspend the payment of cash dividends in order to preserve capital and to allow management to focus on improving our operating results, and until conditions improve in the international shipping industry and credit markets, management will continue to evaluate whether to reinstate the payment of dividends. On September 12, 2008, our board of directors determined to immediately suspend payment of our quarterly dividend. The decision followed our management’s strategic review of our business and reflected our focus on improving our long-term strength and operational results. We will make dividend payments to our shareholders only if our board of directors, acting in its sole discretion, determines that such payments would be in our best interest and in compliance with relevant legal and contractual requirements. The principal business factors that our board of directors expects to consider when determining the timing and amount of dividend payments will be our earnings, financial condition and cash requirements at the time. Currently, the principal contractual and legal restrictions on our ability to make dividend payments are those contained in our Facility Agreement as well as in our other credit facilities and those required by Bermuda law. Our debt agreements contain covenants that limit our ability to pay dividends. For example, our credit facility with Marfin Egnatia Bank S.A. prohibits us from paying dividends without our lender’s consent, and the Facility Agreement only permits the payment of dividend if we meet certain ratios. Our facility agreements further require us to maintain financial ratios and minimum liquidity and working capital amounts. Under Bermuda law, we may not declare or pay dividends if there are reasonable grounds for believing that (1) we are, or would after the payment be, unable to pay our liabilities as they become due or (2) the realizable value of our assets would thereby be less than the sum of our liabilities, our issued share capital (the total par value of all outstanding shares) and share premium accounts (the aggregate amount paid for the subscription for our shares in excess of the aggregate par value of such shares). Consequently, events beyond our control, such as a reduction in the realizable value of our assets, could cause us to be unable to make dividend payments. 33 Table of Contents We may incur other expenses or liabilities that would reduce or eliminate the cash available for distribution as dividends in the future. We may also enter into new agreements or new legal provisions may be adopted that will restrict our ability to pay dividends in the future. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to reinstate the payment of dividends. 