Risk Factors We are subject to a number of risks due to the nature of our business and the present state of development of our business. The following factors should be considered: Risks Relating to the Company Our operations require significant additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. The exploration and development of our properties depends on our ability to obtain financing through joint ventures, debt financing, equity financing, production sharing arrangements or other means. The Company’s plan of operation for 2006 contemplates capital expenditures of $30 million for the development of existing properties and anticipated property acquisitions. In February 2006, the Company issued 19,514,268 common shares for net proceeds of $37,138,452. Accordingly, at March 31, 2006 the Company had working capital of approximately $29.5 million, which amount the Company believes is, together with revenues from operations, sufficient to fund its 2006 exploration and development program. There can be no assurance that we will obtain necessary financing or that any joint venture partner will obtain financing required under the terms of any joint venture agreement into which it enters with us. Our failure to obtain financing on a timely basis or on favorable terms could result in the loss or substantial dilution of our interests (as existing or as proposed to be acquired) in our properties as disclosed in this annual report. In addition, the failure of any joint venture partner to obtain any required financing could adversely affect our ability to complete the exploration or development of any such joint venture project on a timely basis. See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Should we elect to satisfy our cash commitments through the issuance of securities, by way of either private placement or public offering, there can be no assurance that our efforts to raise such funding will be successful, or achieved on terms favorable to us or our shareholders. 6 Our future performance is difficult to evaluate because we have a limited operating history. Because of our historical losses and expected losses in the future, it will be difficult to forecast when we will achieve profitability, if ever. We have historically incurred losses from operations and have a limited history in the oil and gas business. As at December 31, 2005, we had a cumulative deficit of $5,829,627. We are in the process of developing some of our properties, but most of our properties are in the exploration stage, which means that we are still in the process of determining if the property is economically feasible and that the property is not in the production stage. There can be no assurance that we will successfully implement our business plan or that we will achieve commercial profitability in the future. In addition, should we be unable to continue as a going concern, realization of assets and settlement of liabilities in other than the normal course of business may be at amounts significantly different from those in the financial statements included in this annual report. As a result, we have little historical financial and operating information available to help you evaluate our performance or an investment in our common stock Our interests are held in the form of licenses and leases that may terminate. Our properties are held in the form of licenses and leases, and working interests in licenses and leases. If we or the holder of the license or lease fails to meet the specific requirements of each license or lease, the license or lease may terminate or expire. There can be no assurance that any of the obligations required to maintain each license or lease will be met. The termination or expiration of our licenses or leases or the working interests relating to licenses or leases may have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and business. Many of our interests are operated by others. Although we own interests in a large number of properties that are potentially valuable for, or are producing, oil or gas, we do not operate all of these interests. For all of the properties which are operated by others, we are dependent on their decision-making with respect to day-to-day operations over which we have little control. Our officers and directors may become subject to conflicts of interest. Certain of our directors and officers may also become directors, officers, contractors, shareholders and/or employees of other companies engaged in oil and gas exploration and development. To the extent that such other companies may participate in ventures in which we may participate, our directors may have a conflict of interest in negotiating and concluding terms respecting the extent of such participation. In the event that such a conflict of interest arises at a meeting of the directors of the Company, a director who has such a conflict will declare his interest and abstain from voting for or against the approval of such participation or such terms. In appropriate cases, we will establish a special committee of independent directors to review a matter in which several directors, or management, may have a conflict. From time to time, several companies may participate in the acquisition, exploration and development of oil and gas properties thereby allowing for their participation in larger programs, permitting involvement in a greater number of programs and reducing financial exposure in respect of any one program. A particular company may assign all or a portion of its interest in a particular program to another of these companies due to the financial position of the company making the assignment. In accordance with the laws of the Yukon Territory, our directors are required to act honestly, in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. In determining whether or not we will participate in a particular program and the interest therein to be acquired by it, the officers will primarily consider the potential benefits to the Company, the degree of risk to which we may be exposed and its financial position at the time. Other than as indicated, we have no other procedures or mechanisms to deal with conflicts of interest. See “Interest of Management in Certain Transactions.” Our constating documents permit us to issue an unlimited number of shares without shareholder approval. The Company’s Articles of Continuation permit it to issue an unlimited number of common shares. Subject to the requirements of any exchange on which the Company may be listed, the Company will not be required to obtain the approval of shareholders for the issuance of additional common shares. In 2005, the Company issued 20,671,875 7 common shares for gross proceeds of $17,935,173. In February 2006 the Company issued 19,514,268 common shares for net proceeds of $37,138,452. The Company anticipates that it will from time to time issue additional Common Shares to provide working capital for future operations. Any further issuances of Common Shares from the Company’s treasury will result in immediate dilution to existing shareholders and may have an adverse effect on the value of their shareholdings. Our shareholders may experience dilution as a result of our issuance of additional common shares or the exercise of outstanding options. As at December 31, 2005, there were options outstanding to purchase, in the aggregate, 3,938,500 common shares. See “Options to Purchase Securities from Registrant or Subsidiaries.” Such options, if fully exercised, would constitute approximately 6% of our resulting share capital. The exercise of such options and the subsequent resale of such common shares in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price and our ability to raise equity capital in the future at a time and price which we deem appropriate. We may also enter into commitments in the future which would require the issuance of additional common shares and we may grant share purchase warrants and stock options. Any share issuances from the Company’s treasury will result in immediate dilution to existing shareholders. We are continued under the laws of the Yukon Territory which may affect the ability of our shareholders to enforce their rights. We were continued under the laws of the Yukon Territory, Canada, and certain of our directors are residents of Canada. Consequently, it may be difficult for United States investors to effect service of process within the United States upon the Company or upon that director who are not residents of the United States, or to realize in the United States upon judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities under the Exchange Act. A judgment of a U.S. court predicated solely upon such civil liabilities would probably be enforceable in Canada by a Canadian court if the U.S. court in which the judgment was obtained had jurisdiction, as determined by the Canadian court, in the matter. There is substantial doubt whether an original action could be brought successfully in Canada against any of such persons or the Company predicated solely upon such civil liabilities. We depend on Messrs. Peterson and Catlin for critical management decisions and industry contacts. We are heavily dependent upon the expertise of Messrs. Peterson and Catlin, and the loss of either of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on us. Neither of these individuals have entered into employment agreements with us. We have obtained “key man” insurance for our management. The loss of the services of either of our executive officers, through incapacity or otherwise, would be costly to us and would require us to seek and retain other qualified personnel. See “Management.” We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain future earnings to finance the operation, development and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Payment of future cash dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, contractual restrictions, capital requirements, business prospects and other factors that our board of directors considers relevant. Accordingly, investors will only see a return on their investment if the value of our securities appreciates. Risks Relating to our Industry The oil and gas industry is subject to significant competition, which may increase costs or otherwise adversely affect our ability to compete. Oil and gas exploration is intensely competitive and involves a high degree of risk. There can be no assurance that commercial production of hydrocarbons can be obtained from any of our properties, nor are there any assurances that production, if obtained, will be in sufficient quantities to be profitable. In our efforts to acquire properties, we 8 compete with other companies that have greater resources. Many of these companies not only explore for and produce oil and gas, but also conduct refining and petroleum marketing operations on a worldwide basis. Competition for producing properties will be affected by the amount of funds available to us, information available to us and any standards established by us for the minimum projected return on investment. Competition may also be presented by alternative fuel sources and technologies. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could substantially increase our costs and reduce our profitability. There can be no assurance that we will recover commercial quantities of hydrocarbons in the future. The total cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel drilling, including the following: • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements; • pressure or irregularities in geological formations; • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions; • reductions in oil and natural gas prices; • land title problems; and • limitations in the market for oil and natural gas. In addition, hazards such as unusual or unexpected formations, pressures or other conditions are involved in drilling and operating wells. We may have the benefit of insurance, but we may be subject to liability for pollution, blow-outs or other hazards against which we cannot insure or which we may elect not to insure against because of high premium costs or other reasons. The payment of such liabilities may reduce the funds available for drilling and production activities or could result in the loss of property. Our operations are subject to significant environmental regulation which may increase costs or limit our ability to develop our properties. We may encounter hazards incident to the exploration and development of oil and gas properties such as accidental spills or leakage of petroleum liquids and other unforeseen conditions. We may be subject to liability for pollution and other damages due to hazards which cannot be insured against due to prohibitive premium costs or for other reasons. Governmental regulations relating to environmental matters could also increase the cost of doing business or require alteration or cessation of operations in certain areas. Existing and possible future environmental legislation, regulations and actions could give rise to additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions and delays in our activities, the extent of which cannot be predicted. Regulatory requirements and environmental standards are subject to constant evaluation and may be significantly increased, which could materially and adversely affect our business or our ability to develop its properties on an economically feasible basis. Before development and production can commence on any properties, we must obtain regulatory and environmental approvals. There is no assurance that such approvals will be obtained on a timely basis or at all. The cost of compliance with changes in governmental regulations has the potential to reduce the profitability of operations or preclude entirely the economic development of a property. 9 We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our oil and natural gas operations. Our operations will be subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of: • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater contamination; • abnormally pressured formations; • mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and service tools and casing collapse; • fires and explosions; • personal injuries and death; and • natural disasters. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to operate or result in substantial losses. These risks may not be insurable or we may elect not to obtain insurance if the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. If a significant accident or other event that is not fully covered by insurance occurs, it could adversely affect us. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices could reduce our future revenue and earnings. As with most other companies involved in resource exploration, we may be adversely affected by future increases in the costs of conducting exploration, development and resource extraction that may not be fully offset by increases in the price received on sale of the petroleum or natural gas. Our revenues, profitability and future growth and the carrying value of its oil and gas properties are substantially dependent on prevailing prices of oil and gas. Our ability to borrow and to obtain additional capital on attractive terms is also substantially dependent upon oil and gas prices. Prices for oil and gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control. These factors include economic conditions in the United States and Canada, the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, governmental regulation, political stability in the Middle East and elsewhere, the foreign supply of oil and gas, the price of foreign imports and the availability of alternate fuel sources. Any substantial and extended decline in the price of oil and gas would have an adverse effect on the carrying value of our properties, borrowing capacity, revenues, profitability and cash flows from operations. Volatile oil and gas prices make it difficult to estimate the value of producing properties for acquisition and often cause disruption in the market for oil and gas producing properties, as buyers and sellers have difficulty agreeing on such value. Price volatility also makes it difficult to budget for and project the return on acquisitions and development and exploitation projects. Local, national and international economic conditions are beyond our control and may have a substantial adverse affect on our efforts. We cannot guard against the effects of these potential adverse conditions. Our operating results are likely to vary due to seasonal factors. Demand for oil and gas products will generally increase during the winter because they are often used as heating fuels. The amount of such increased demand will depend to some extent upon the severity of winter. Because of the seasonality of our business and continuous fluctuations in the prices of our products, our operating results are likely to fluctuate from period to period. In addition, our federal leases generally include restrictions on drilling during the period of November 15 to April 30. These restrictions are intended to protect big game winter habitat and not to restrict operations or maintenance of 10 production facilities. To the extent that our exploration and drilling program on its federal leases cannot be completed during the period of May 1 through November 14, our drilling program may be delayed. The title to our properties may be defective. It is our practice in acquiring oil and gas leases or interests in oil and gas leases not to undergo the expense of retaining lawyers to fully examine the title to the interest to be placed under lease or already placed under lease. Rather, we rely upon the judgment of oil and gas lease brokers or landmen who actually do the field work in examining records in the appropriate governmental office before attempting to place under lease a specific interest. We believe that this practice is widely followed in the oil and gas industry. Prior to drilling a well for oil and gas, it is the normal practice of the oil and gas industry for the person or company acting as the operator of the well to hire a lawyer to examine the title to the unit within which the proposed oil and gas well is to be drilled. Frequently, as a result of such examination, certain curative work must be done to correct deficiencies in the marketability of the title, and the curative work entails expense. The work might include obtaining an affidavit of heirship or causing an estate to be administered. From time to time, the examination made by the title lawyers reveals that the oil and gas lease or leases are worthless, having been purchased in error from a person who is not the owner of the mineral interest desired. In such instances, the amount paid for such oil and gas lease or leases may be lost. Market conditions or operational impediments may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder access to oil and natural gas markets or delay production, if any, at the wells. The availability of a ready market for our future oil and natural gas production will depend on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. We are subject to complex laws that can affect the cost, manner and feasibility of doing business thereby increasing our costs and reducing our profitability. Development, production and sale of oil and natural gas are subject to laws and regulations. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with governmental regulations. Matters subject to regulation include: • discharge permits for drilling operations; • drilling bonds; • reports concerning operations; • spacing of wells; • unitization and pooling of properties; and • taxation. Failure to comply with these laws may also result in the suspension or termination of operations and liabilities under administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, these laws could change in ways that substantially increase the costs of doing business. Any such liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 11 The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our plans on a timely basis and within our budget. Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel could delay or adversely affect our development operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 