ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in shares of our common stock is highly speculative and involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information included in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the risks described below before purchasing shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could materially suffer. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to the Company We will require significant additional capital, which may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. We will need to expend significant capital in order to explore and develop our properties. Our plan of operation for 2007 contemplates capital expenditures of $60 million for the development of existing properties and anticipated property acquisitions. If our available sources of liquidity are insufficient to fund our expected capital needs for 2007, or our needs are greater than anticipated, we will be required to raise additional funds in the future through private or public sales of equity securities or the incurrence of indebtedness. In addition, we will be required to raise additional funds in the future to fund our plan of operation beyond 2007. There can be no assurance that we will obtain necessary additional financing on favorable terms or at all. If we borrow additional funds, we likely will be obligated to make periodic interest or other debt service payments and may be subject to additional restrictive covenants. Should we elect to raise additional capital through the issuance and sale of equity securities, the sales may be at prices below the market price of our stock, and our shareholders may suffer significant dilution. Our failure to obtain financing on a timely basis or on favorable terms could result in the loss or substantial dilution of our interests in our properties as disclosed in this Form 10-K. In addition, the failure of any of our joint venture partners to obtain any required financing could adversely affect our ability to complete the exploration or development of any of our joint venture projects on a timely basis. 6 We have historically incurred losses and expect to incur additional losses in the future. It is difficult for us to forecast when we will achieve profitability, if ever. We have historically incurred losses from operations during our limited history in the oil and natural gas business. As at December 31, 2006, we had a cumulative deficit of $8,615,667. While we have developed some of our properties, most of our properties are in the exploration stage and to date we have established a limited volume of proved reserves on our properties. To become profitable, we would need to be successful in our acquisition, exploration, development and production activities, all of which are subject to many risks beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will successfully implement our business plan or that we will achieve commercial profitability in the future. Even if we become profitable, we cannot assure you that our profitability will be sustainable or increase on a periodic basis. In addition, should we be unable to continue as a going concern, realization of assets and settlement of liabilities in other than the normal course of business may be at amounts significantly different from those in the financial statements included in this Form 10-K. Finally, due to our limited history in the oil and natural gas business, we have limited historical financial and operating information available to help you evaluate our performance or an investment in our common stock. We may not be able to successfully drill wells that can produce oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully drill wells that can produce commercial quantities of oil and natural gas in the future. The total cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. The use of seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercial quantities. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel drilling, including the following: • our limited history of drilling wells; • delays and restrictions imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements; • pressure or irregularities in geological formations; • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions; • reductions in oil and natural gas prices; • land title problems; and • limitations in the market for oil and natural gas. The occurrence of any of these events could negatively affect our ability to successfully drill wells that can produce oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities. The actual quantities and present value of our proved reserves may be lower than we have estimated. This Form 10-K contains estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves and the estimated future net revenues from these reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex and requires significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Accordingly, these estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development and operating expenses, and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves most likely will vary from these estimates and vary over time. Such variations may be significant and could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our proved reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development drilling, results of secondary and tertiary recovery applications, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues referred to in this Form 10-K is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are generally based on prices and costs as of the 7 date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Any change in consumption by oil or natural gas purchasers or in governmental regulations or taxation will also affect actual future net cash flows. The timing of both the production and the expenses from the development and production of our oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves and their present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor nor does it reflect discount factors used in the market place for the purchase and sale of oil and natural gas. Our interests are held in the form of leases that we may be unable to retain. Our properties are held under leases, and working interests in leases. Generally, the leases we are a party to are for a fixed term, but contain a provision that allows us to extend the term of the lease so long as we are producing oil or natural gas in quantities to meet the required payments under the lease. If we or the holder of a lease fails to meet the specific requirements of the lease regarding delay rental payments, continuous production or development, or similar terms, portions of the lease may terminate or expire. There can be no assurance that any of the obligations required to maintain each lease will be met. The termination or expiration of our leases or the working interests relating to leases may reduce our opportunity to exploit a given prospect for oil and natural gas production and thus have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. We have limited control over activities in properties we do not operate, which could reduce our production and revenues. We do not operate all of the properties in which we have an interest. As of December 31, 2006, we owned a non-operating interest in six wells in the Vermillion Basin and may acquire non-operating interests in additional wells in the future. As a result, we may have a limited ability to exercise influence over normal operating procedures, expenditures or future development of underlying properties and their associated costs. For all of the properties that are operated by others, we are dependent on their decision-making with respect to day-to-day operations over which we have little control. The failure of an operator of wells in which we have an interest to adequately perform operations, or an operator’s breach of applicable agreements, could reduce production and revenues we receive from that well. The success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including: • timing and amount of capital expenditures; • expertise and financial resources; and • inclusion of other participants. We have a limited experience as an operator of wells. We are an independent energy company with a limited operating history and limited experience in drilling and operating wells in the Green River Basin and the Williston Basin. We currently conduct some of our oil and natural gas exploration, development and production activities in joint ventures with others. As part of our corporate strategy, we plan to seek to operate our wells where possible and to maintain a high level of participation in our wells by investing our own capital in drilling operations. While our management team has considerable industry experience, to date our company has drilled only two wells in the Green River Basin and eleven wells in the Williston Basin. Currently, we operate only three wells in the Green River Basin and eight wells in the Williston Basin. If we fail to successfully manage our drilling and exploration programs or fail to successfully operate our wells, we may never become profitable. The title to our properties may be defective. It is our practice in acquiring oil and natural gas leases or interests in oil and natural gas leases not to undergo the expense of retaining lawyers to fully examine the title to the interest to be placed under lease or already placed under lease. Rather, we rely upon the judgment of oil and natural gas lease brokers or landmen who actually 8 do the field work in examining records in the appropriate governmental office before attempting to place under lease a specific interest. We believe that this practice is widely followed in the oil and natural gas industry. Prior to drilling a well for oil and natural gas, it is the normal practice in the oil and natural gas industry for the person or company acting as the operator of the well to hire a lawyer to examine the title to the unit within which the proposed oil and natural gas well is to be drilled. Frequently, as a result of such examination, curative work must be done to correct deficiencies in the marketability of the title. The work entails expense and might include obtaining an affidavit of heirship or causing an estate to be administered. The examination made by the title lawyers may reveal that the oil and natural gas lease or leases are worthless, having been purchased in error from a person who is not the owner of the mineral interest desired. In such instances, the amount paid for such oil and natural gas lease or leases may be lost. Our officers and directors may become subject to conflicts of interest. Some of our directors and officers may also become directors, officers, contractors, shareholders or employees of other companies engaged in oil and natural gas exploration and development. To the extent that such other companies may participate in ventures in which we may participate, our directors may have a conflict of interest in negotiating and concluding terms respecting the extent of such participation. In the event that such a conflict of interest arises at a meeting of our directors, a director who has such a conflict will declare his interest and abstain from voting for or against the approval of such participation or such terms. In appropriate cases, we will establish a special committee of independent directors to review a matter in which several directors, or management, may have a conflict. From time to time, several companies may participate in the acquisition, exploration and development of oil and natural gas properties thereby allowing for their participation in larger programs, permitting involvement in a greater number of programs and reducing financial exposure in respect of any one program. A particular company may assign all or a portion of its interest in a particular program to another of these companies due to the financial position of the company making the assignment. In accordance with the laws of the Yukon Territory, our directors are required to act honestly, in good faith and in the best interests of our company. In determining whether or not we will participate or acquire an interest in a particular program, our officers will primarily consider the potential benefits to our company, the degree of risk to which we may be exposed and our financial position at the time. See “Related Party Transactions.” We depend on our current management team, the loss of any member of which could delay the further implementation of our business plan or cause business failure. We are heavily dependent upon the expertise of our management team, especially our executive officers, Lynn Peterson and James Catlin. The loss of Mr. Peterson or Mr. Catlin would have a material adverse effect on us. Neither Mr. Peterson nor Mr. Catlin have entered into an employment agreement with us. We have obtained “key man” insurance for our management. In addition, the loss of the services of either of our executive officers, or any other member of our management team, through incapacity or otherwise, would be costly to us and would require us to seek and retain other qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we could find a suitable replacement for any member of our management team. See “Management.” Oil and natural gas reserves decline once a property becomes productive, and we may need to find new reserves to sustain revenue growth. Even if we add oil and natural gas reserves through our exploration activities, our reserves will decline as they are produced. We will be constantly challenged to add new reserves through further exploration and development of our existing properties. We cannot assure you that our exploration and development activities will be successful in adding new reserves. If we fail to replace reserves, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely impacted. 9 We will need to make substantial financial and man-power investments in order to assess our internal controls over financial reporting and our internal controls over financial reporting may be found to be deficient. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management to assess our internal controls over financial reporting and requires auditors to attest to that assessment. Current regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, will require us to include this assessment and attestation in our annual report commencing with the annual report we file with the SEC for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. We will incur significant increased costs in implementing and responding to these requirements. In particular, the rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess its internal controls over financial reporting under Section 404 are complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. Our process of reviewing, documenting and testing our internal controls over financial reporting may cause a significant strain on our management, information systems and resources. We may have to invest in additional accounting and software systems. We may be required to hire additional personnel and to use outside legal, accounting and advisory services. In addition, we will incur additional fees from our auditors as they perform the additional services necessary for them to provide their attestation. If we are unable to favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting when we are required to, or if our independent auditors are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on such assessment, we may be required to change our internal control over financial reporting to remediate deficiencies. In addition, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements causing our stock price to decline. Our focus on exploration activities exposes us to greater risks than are generally encountered in later-stage oil and natural gas property development businesses. Much of our current activity involves drilling exploratory wells on properties with no proved oil and natural gas reserves. While all drilling, whether developmental or exploratory, involves risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of oil and natural gas. The economic success of any project will depend on numerous factors, including: • our ability to drill, complete and operate wells; • our ability to estimate the volumes of recoverable reserves relating to individual projects; • rates of future production; • future commodity prices; and • investment and operating costs and possible environmental liabilities. All of these factors may impact whether a project will generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. If we experience a series of failed drilling projects, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We rely on independent experts and technical or operational service providers over whom we may have limited control. We use independent contractors to provide us with technical assistance and services. We rely upon the owners and operators of rigs and drilling equipment, and upon providers of field services, to drill and develop our prospects to production. In addition, we rely upon the services of other third parties to explore or analyze our prospects to determine a method in which the prospects may be developed in a cost-effective manner. Our limited control over the activities and business practices of these providers, any inability on our part to maintain satisfactory commercial relationships with them or their failure to provide quality services could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 10 We have not insured and cannot fully insure against all risks related to our operations, which could result in substantial claims for which we are underinsured or uninsured. We have not insured and cannot fully insure against all risks and have not attempted to insure fully against risks where coverage is prohibitively expensive. We do not carry business interruption insurance coverage. Our exploration, drilling and other activities are subject to risks such as: • fires and explosions; • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination; • abnormally pressured formations; • mechanical failures of drilling equipment; • personal injuries and death, including insufficient worker compensation coverage for third-party contractors who provide drilling services; and • natural disasters, such as adverse weather conditions. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events, which could arise from even one catastrophic accident, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Properties that we acquire may not produce oil or natural gas as projected, and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against them, which could cause us to incur losses. One of our growth strategies is to pursue selective acquisitions of oil and natural gas reserves. If we choose to pursue an acquisition, we will perform a review of the target properties that we believe is consistent with industry practices. However, these reviews are inherently incomplete. Generally, it is not feasible to review in depth every individual property involved in each acquisition. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. We may not perform an inspection on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, we may not be able to obtain effective contractual protection against all or part of those problems, and we may assume environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with the acquired properties. Our operations in North Dakota, Montana and Wyoming could be adversely affected by abnormally poor weather conditions. Our operations in North Dakota, Montana and Wyoming are conducted in areas subject to extreme weather conditions and often in difficult terrain. Primarily in the winter and spring, our operations are often curtailed because of cold, snow and wet conditions. Unusually severe weather could further curtail these operations, including drilling of new wells or production from existing wells, and depending on the severity of the weather, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 In addition, our federal leases generally include restrictions on drilling during the period of November 15 to April 30. These restrictions are intended to protect big game winter habitat and not to restrict operations or maintenance of production facilities. To the extent that our exploration and drilling program on our federal leases cannot be completed during the period of May 1 through November 14, our drilling program may be delayed. Market conditions or operational impediments may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. We deliver oil and natural gas through gathering systems and pipelines that we do not own. These facilities may not be available to us in the future. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder access to oil and natural gas markets or delay production, if any, at our wells. The availability of a ready market for our future oil and natural gas production will depend on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Any significant change in our arrangements with gathering system or pipeline owners and operators or other market factors affecting the overall infrastructure facilities servicing our properties would adversely affect our ability to deliver the oil and natural gas we produce to markets in an efficient manner. Risks Relating to Our Industry The oil and natural gas industry is subject to significant competition, which may increase costs or otherwise adversely affect our ability to compete. Oil and natural gas exploration is intensely competitive and involves a high degree of risk. In our efforts to acquire oil and natural gas producing properties, we compete with other companies that have greater resources. Many of these companies not only explore for and produce oil and natural gas, but also conduct refining and petroleum marketing operations on a worldwide basis. Our ability to compete for oil and natural gas producing properties will be affected by the amount of funds available to us, information available to us and any standards established by us for the minimum projected return on investment. Our products will also face competition from alternative fuel sources and technologies. Oil and natural gas are commodities subject to price volatility based on many factors outside the control of producers, and low prices may make properties uneconomic for future production. Oil and natural gas are commodities, and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile. These markets will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices a producer may expect and its level of production depend on numerous factors beyond its control, such as: • changes in global supply and demand for oil and natural gas; • economic conditions in the United States and Canada; • the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC; • government regulation; • the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas; • political conditions, including embargoes, in oil- and natural gas-producing regions; • the level of global oil and natural gas inventories; • weather conditions; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease revenues on a per unit basis, but also may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that can be economically produced. Lower prices will also negatively affect the value of proved reserves. 12 Exploration and drilling operations are subject to significant environmental regulation, which may increase costs or limit our ability to develop our properties. We may encounter hazards incident to the exploration and development of oil and natural gas properties such as accidental spills or leakage of petroleum liquids and other unforeseen conditions. We may be subject to liability for pollution and other damages due to hazards that we cannot insure against due to prohibitive premium costs or for other reasons. Governmental regulations relating to environmental matters could also increase the cost of doing business or require alteration or cessation of operations in some areas. Existing and possible future environmental legislation, regulations and actions could give rise to additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions and delays in our activities, the extent of which we cannot predict. Regulatory requirements and environmental standards are subject to constant evaluation and may be significantly increased, which could materially and adversely affect our business or our ability to develop our properties on an economically feasible basis. Before development and production can commence on any properties, we must obtain regulatory and environmental approvals. We cannot assure you that we will obtain such approvals on a timely basis or at all. The cost of compliance with changes in governmental regulations has the potential to reduce the profitability of our operations and preclude entirely the economic development of a specific property. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices could reduce our future revenue and earnings. As with most other companies involved in resource exploration and development, we may be adversely affected by future increases in the costs of conducting exploration, development and resource extraction that may not be fully offset by increases in the price received on sale of oil or natural gas. Our revenues and growth, and the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties are substantially dependent on prevailing prices of oil and natural gas. Our ability to obtain additional capital on attractive terms is also substantially dependent upon oil and natural gas prices. Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control. These factors include changes in global supply and demand for oil and natural gas, economic conditions in the United States and Canada, the actions of OPEC, governmental regulation, the price and quantity of imports in foreign oil- and natural gas-producing regions, political conditions, including embargoes in oil- and natural gas-producing regions, the level of global oil and natural gas inventories, weather conditions, technological advances affecting energy consumption and the price and availability of alternate fuel sources. Any substantial and extended decline in the price of oil and natural gas would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Volatile oil and natural gas prices make it difficult to estimate the value of producing properties for acquisition and often cause disruption in the market for oil and natural gas producing properties, as buyers and sellers have difficulty agreeing on such value. Price volatility also makes it difficult to budget for and project the return on acquisitions and development and exploitation projects. Local, national and international economic conditions are beyond our control and may have a substantial adverse effect on our efforts. We cannot guard against the effects of these potential adverse conditions. Our operations and demand for our products are affected by seasonal factors, which may lead to fluctuations in our operating results. Our operating results are likely to vary due to seasonal factors. Demand for oil and natural gas products will generally increase during the winter because they are often used as heating fuels. The amount of such increased demand will depend to some extent upon the severity of winter. Because of the seasonality of our business and continuous fluctuations in the prices of our products, our operating results are likely to fluctuate from period to period. 13 Conducting operations in the oil and natural gas industry subjects us to complex laws and regulations that can have a material adverse effect on the cost, manner and feasibility of doing business. Companies that explore for and develop, produce and sell oil and natural gas in the United States are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, including complex tax and environmental laws and the corresponding regulations, and are required to obtain various permits and approvals from federal, state and local agencies. If these permits are not issued or unfavorable restrictions or conditions are imposed on our drilling activities, we may not be able to conduct our operations as planned. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with governmental regulations. Matters subject to regulation include: • water discharge and disposal permits for drilling operations; • drilling bonds; • drilling permits; • reports concerning operations; • air quality, noise levels and related permits; • spacing of wells; • rights-of-way and easements; • unitization and pooling of properties; • gathering, transportation and marketing of oil and natural gas; • taxation; and • waste transport and disposal permits and requirements. Failure to comply with these laws may result in the suspension or termination of operations and subject us to liabilities under administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Compliance costs can be significant. Moreover, these laws could change in ways that substantially increase the costs of doing business. Any such liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our cost of operations or our ability to execute our plans on a timely basis. Due to domestic drilling activity increases, particularly in fields in which we operate, a general shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and personnel has developed. As a result, the costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel are substantially greater than in previous years. From time to time, these costs have sharply increased and could do so again. The demand for and wage rates of qualified drilling rig crews generally rise in response to the increasing number of active rigs in service and could increase sharply in the event of a shortage. Shortages of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel could delay or adversely affect our development operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our common stock has a limited trading history and may experience price volatility. Our common stock has been trading on the TSX Venture Exchange, or TSX-V, since September 28, 2001, and on the American Stock Exchange, or AMEX, since June 21, 2006. The volume of trading in our common stock varies greatly and may often be light, resulting in what is known as a “thinly-traded” stock. Until a larger secondary market for our common stock develops, the price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. The price of our common stock may also be impacted by any of the following, some of which may have little or no relation to our company or industry: • the breadth of our stockholder base and extent to which securities professionals follow our common stock; • investor perception of our Company and the oil and natural gas industry, including industry trends; • domestic and international economic and capital market conditions, including fluctuations in commodity prices; 14 • responses to quarter-to-quarter variations in our results of operations; • announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors; • additions or departures of key personnel; • sales or purchases of our common stock by large stockholders or our insiders; • accounting pronouncements or changes in accounting rules that affect our financial reporting; and • changes in legal and regulatory compliance unrelated to our performance. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Payment of future cash dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, contractual restrictions, capital requirements, business prospects and other factors that our board of directors considers relevant. Accordingly, investors may only see a return on their investment if the value of our securities appreciates. Our constating documents permit us to issue an unlimited number of shares without shareholder approval. Our Articles of Continuation permit us to issue an unlimited number of shares of our common stock. Subject to the requirements of any exchange on which we may be listed, we will not be required to obtain the approval of shareholders for the issuance of additional shares of our common stock. In 2005, we issued 20,671,875 shares of our common stock for net proceeds of $17,879,673. In 2006, we issued 31,589,268 shares of our common stock for net proceeds of $83,209,451. We anticipate that we will, from time to time, issue additional shares of our common stock to provide working capital for future operations. Any further issuances of shares of our common stock from our treasury will result in immediate dilution to existing shareholders and may have an adverse effect on the value of their shareholdings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 