ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The demand for our products depends in large part on continued growth in the industries into which they are sold. A market decline in any of these industries, or a decline in the demand for NOR Flash memory products in these industries, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Sales of our Flash memory products, which to date have been based on the NOR architecture, are dependent to a large degree upon consumer demand for mobile phones. In 2004 and fiscal 2005, wireless customers, which primarily consist of mobile phone original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, represented the largest market for NOR Flash memory because mobile phone OEMs have traditionally used products based on NOR architecture to satisfy both code and data storage requirements within their mobile phones. The market research firm iSuppli has estimated that mobile communications represented approximately 65.7 percent of the NOR Flash memory market in 2004 and represented approximately 69.1 percent of the NOR Flash memory market in 2005. In fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005, sales to wireless Flash memory customers drove a majority of our sales. If demand for mobile phones is below our expectations or if the functionality of successive generations of mobile phones do not require increasing NOR Flash memory density or if mobile phones do not require NOR flash memory at all, we would be materially adversely affected. Similarly, sales of our products targeting embedded Flash memory customers are dependent upon demand for consumer electronics such as set top boxes, or STBs, and DVD players, automotive electronics, industrial electronics such as networking equipment and PC peripheral equipment such as printers. Sales of our products are also dependent upon the inclusion of increasing amounts of NOR Flash memory content in some of these products. In fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005, sales to embedded Flash memory customers drove a significant portion of our sales. If demand for these products, or NOR Flash memory content in these products, is below our expectations, we would be materially adversely affected. We will lose rights to key intellectual property arrangements once we are no longer a beneficiary of AMD’s patent cross-license agreements and other licenses, which creates a greatly increased risk of patent or other intellectual property infringement claims against us. As a subsidiary of AMD through December 21, 2005, we were the beneficiary of AMD’s intellectual property arrangements with third parties, including patent cross-license agreements with other major semiconductor companies such as Intel, Motorola and IBM, and licenses from third parties for technology incorporated in our products and software used to operate our business. Since the completion of our initial public offering in December 2005, we are no longer a beneficiary under a number of these agreements. As a result, we lost rights to use important intellectual property that we were previously licensed to use and may therefore be subject to claims that we are infringing intellectual property rights of third parties through the manufacture and sale of our products and the operation of our business. Therefore, absent negotiating our own license agreements with the third parties who own such intellectual property, we will be vulnerable to claims by such parties that our products or operations infringe such parties’ patents or other intellectual property rights. In addition, third parties may have refrained from asserting intellectual property infringement claims against us because we were previously a majority-owned subsidiary of AMD. Now that we are an independent standalone company, they may elect to pursue such claims against us. While we will eventually lose the benefits that we previously enjoyed under some of AMD’s patent cross-license agreements and other licenses, we believe we will continue to be a beneficiary for some period of time while AMD continues to hold a majority of our shares entitled to vote for the election of our directors and while AMD continues to be a party to such agreements and licenses. However, we expect that AMD will no longer hold a majority of such voting shares upon the conversion of the Class D common stock held by Fujitsu. The Class D common stock held by Fujitsu will convert to Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis upon the earlier of December 21, 2006 and the date upon which our board elects to cause the Class D common stock to convert to Class A common stock, following a determination that such conversion is in our best interests. However, we cannot assure you that the other parties thereunder will not challenge our ability to assert rights as a beneficiary under these patent cross-license agreements and other licenses. 15 Table of Contents With the assistance of AMD, we will attempt to negotiate our own agreements and arrangements with third parties for intellectual property and technology that is important to our business, including the intellectual property that we previously had access to through our relationship with AMD. We will also attempt to acquire new patents with the assistance of AMD, as our success in negotiating patent cross-license agreements with other industry participants will depend in large part upon the strength of our patent portfolio relative to that of the third party with which we are negotiating. If the third party benefits from an existing patent cross-license agreement with AMD, in many cases it will retain the rights that it has under that agreement even after we cease to be an AMD subsidiary, including rights to utilize the patents that AMD and Fujitsu transferred to us in connection with our reorganization as Spansion LLC in June 2003. In many cases, any such third party will also retain such rights to utilize any patents that have been issued to us or acquired by us subsequent to our reorganization and prior to our no longer being a subsidiary of AMD. Our negotiating position may therefore be impaired, because the other party will already be entitled to utilize a large number, or even all, of our patents, while we will no longer have the right to utilize that party’s patents. As a result, we may be unable to obtain access to the other party’s patent portfolio on favorable terms or at all. Similarly, with respect to licenses from third parties for technology incorporated in our products or software used to operate our business, we may not be able to negotiate prices with these third parties on terms as favorable to us as those available when we were a subsidiary of AMD because we will not be able to take advantage of AMD’s current size and purchasing power. These parties, and other third parties with whom AMD had no prior intellectual property arrangement, may file lawsuits against us seeking damages (potentially including treble damages) or an injunction against the sale of our products that incorporate allegedly infringed intellectual property or against the operation of our business as presently conducted. Such litigation could be extremely expensive and time-consuming. We cannot assure you that such litigation would be avoided or successfully concluded. The award of damages, including material royalty payments, or the entry of an injunction against the manufacture or sale of some or all of our products, would have a material adverse effect on us. A lack of market acceptance of MirrorBit technology would have a material adverse effect on us. Market acceptance of products based on our MirrorBit technology is a critical factor impacting our ability to increase revenues and market share in the integrated category of the Flash memory market, as well as to enter new markets. MirrorBit technology is a memory cell architecture that enables Flash memory products to store two bits of data in a single memory cell thereby doubling the density or storage capacity of each memory cell. If adoption of our MirrorBit technology occurs at a slower rate than we anticipate, our ability to compete will be reduced, and we would be materially adversely affected. In addition, in fiscal 2006, we plan to introduce new products for integrated Flash memory applications based on our third generation 90-nanometer MirrorBit technology. If we do not achieve market acceptance of these products or subsequent MirrorBit products, our future operating results would be materially adversely affected. A significant market shift to NAND architecture would materially adversely affect us. Flash memory products are generally based either on NOR architecture, or “Not And,” or NAND, architecture. To date, our Flash memory products have been based on NOR architecture, which are typically produced at a higher cost-per-bit than NAND-based products. We do not currently manufacture products based on NAND architecture. During 2003 and 2004, industry sales of NAND-based Flash memory products grew at a higher rate than sales of NOR-based Flash memory products, resulting in NAND vendors in aggregate gaining a greater share of the overall Flash memory market and NOR vendors in aggregate losing overall market share. This trend continued in 2005 and sales of NAND-based Flash memory products represented a majority of the Flash memory products sold in the overall Flash memory market in 2005. In 2004, according to iSuppli, total sales for the Flash memory market reached $15.9 billion, of which 58.4 percent was classified as sales of NOR-based Flash memory products and 41.6 percent was classified as sales of NAND-based Flash memory products. iSuppli estimates the total sales for the Flash memory market for 2005 to be $18.7 billion, of which 42.3percent was classified as sales of NOR-based Flash memory products and 57.7 percent was classified as sales of NAND-based Flash memory products. We expect this trend of decreasing market share for NOR-based 16 Table of Contents Flash memory products to continue in the future. iSuppli estimates that sales of NAND-based Flash memory products grew by 63 percent from 2004 to 2005 and will grow at a 24.8 percent compound annual growth rate from 2005 to 2009, while sales of NOR-based Flash memory products declined by 4.0 percent from 2004 to 2005 and will grow at a 6.8 percent compound annual growth rate from 2005 to 2009. Moreover, the removable storage category of the Flash memory market, which is predominantly served by NAND vendors, is expected to be the fastest growing portion of the Flash memory market for the foreseeable future. As mobile phones and other consumer electronics become more advanced, they will require higher density Flash memory to meet the increased data storage requirements associated with music downloads, photos and videos. Because storage requirements will increase to accommodate data-intensive applications, OEMs may increasingly choose NAND-based Flash memory products over NOR-based Flash memory products for their applications. Moreover, some NAND vendors are manufacturing on 300-millimeter wafers or are utilizing more advanced manufacturing process technologies than we are today, which result in an ability to offer products with a lower cost-per bit at a given product density. If NAND vendors continue to increase their share of the Flash memory market, our market share may decrease, which would materially adversely affect us. If we fail to successfully develop products based on our new MirrorBit ORNAND architecture, or if there is a lack of market acceptance of products based on our MirrorBit ORNAND architecture, our future operating results would be materially adversely affected. As mobile phones become more advanced, they will require higher density Flash memory to meet increased data storage requirements. We intend to position ourselves to address the increasing demand for higher density Flash memory within the high-end wireless market by offering products based on our MirrorBit ORNAND architecture, which we recently developed. The success of our MirrorBit ORNAND architecture requires that we timely and cost effectively develop, manufacture and market MirrorBit ORNAND-based products that are competitive with NAND-based Flash memory products for wireless Flash memory customers. We expect to begin commercial shipments of MirrorBit ORNAND-based products to customers in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. However, if we fail to develop and commercialize our MirrorBit ORNAND architecture on a timely basis or if our MirrorBit ORNAND-based products fail to achieve acceptance in the wireless market, our future operating results would be materially adversely affected. The loss of a significant customer for our Flash memory products in the mobile phone market could have a material adverse effect on us. Sales of our products are dependent to a large extent on demand for mobile phones. Historically, a small number of wireless Flash memory customers has driven a substantial portion of our net sales. If one of these customers decided to stop buying our Flash memory products, or if one of these customers were materially to reduce its operations or its demand for our products, we could be materially adversely affected. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial position. We currently have and will continue to have for the foreseeable future, a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 25, 2005, we had an aggregate principal amount of approximately $760 million in outstanding debt. Of this amount, we owed approximately $184 million to AMD, net of discount on Senior Subordinated Notes issued to AMD. Our substantial indebtedness may: • require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; • make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; • limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; 17 Table of Contents • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and • increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. We are currently party to and intend to enter into debt arrangements in the future, each of which may subject us to restrictive covenants which could limit our ability to operate our business. We are party to a $175 million senior secured revolving credit facility that imposes various restrictions and covenants on us that limit our ability to: • enter into any mergers, consolidations or sales of property, or sales of inventory, equipment and assets except in the ordinary course of business; • make any distributions except for distributions from Spansion LLC to us in specified circumstances; • make investments, except for the purchase of inventory, equipment and intellectual property in the ordinary course of business, unless we meet minimum liquidity requirements consisting of availability under the revolving credit facility and domestic cash of at least $50 million prior to December 31, 2005 (or if earlier, the date of our initial public offering) and $200 million thereafter, provided, however, that investments are limited to no more than a total of $50 million while the reduced minimum liquidity requirement is in place; • incur additional debt other than the debt incurred concurrently with our initial public offering, capital leases, debt incurred by our foreign subsidiaries, and in limited cases, loans to subsidiaries; • engage in transactions with affiliates unless in the normal course of business, negotiated at arms-length terms and the transactions are disclosed to the agent for the lenders; • incur any new liens except for equipment leases and loans; and • prepay any debt, except that debt of foreign subsidiaries may be prepaid by the applicable foreign subsidiary and we may prepay any debt as long as after such repayment, we meet minimum liquidity requirements consisting of availability under the revolving credit facility plus domestic cash of at least $250 million. In addition, the indentures governing our $250 million principal amount of 11.25% Senior Notes due 2016 and our $175 million principal amount of 12.75% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2016 impose substantially similar restrictions and covenants on us which could limit our ability to respond to market conditions, make capital investments or take advantage of business opportunities. Moreover, the senior notes and the senior subordinated notes bear a higher rate of interest than our bank debt, which will adversely affect our results of operations. In the future, we may incur additional indebtedness through arrangements such as credit agreements or term loans that may also impose similar restrictions and covenants. These restrictions and covenants limit and any future covenants and restrictions likely will limit our ability to respond to market conditions, to make capital investments or to take advantage of business opportunities. Any debt arrangements we enter into would likely require us to make regular interest payments, which would adversely affect our results of operations. As of December 25, 2005, Spansion Japan was not in compliance with certain financial covenants under its debt instruments, but obtained waivers from the other parties. We cannot assure you that in the future we will be able to satisfy the covenants, financial tests and ratios of our debt instruments, which can be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of any of these covenants, financial tests or ratios could result in a default under the applicable agreement, which in turn could trigger cross-defaults under our other debt instruments, any of which would materially adversely affect us. 18 Table of Contents Our inability to design and implement new enterprise-wide information systems in a timely and cost-effective manner could materially adversely affect us. We are designing and preparing to implement our own enterprise-wide information systems. These systems will be designed to automate more fully our business processes and will affect most of our functional areas including sales, finance, procurement, inventory control, collections, order processing and manufacturing. Implementation of this information system will be particularly difficult since our systems have historically been integrated into AMD’s systems and we will simultaneously undergo a physical separation from AMD’s systems, attempt to enhance our business processes and implement a new information system. Implementation also may require significant upgrades to our existing computer hardware and software systems. Historically, other companies have experienced substantial delays in the implementation of such information systems. Implementation of these information systems will be complex, expensive and time consuming and successful implementation could be delayed or otherwise adversely affected by various factors including: (i) any failure to provide adequate training to employees; (ii) any failure to retain key members of the implementation team or to find suitable replacements for such personnel; (iii) any failure to develop and apply appropriate testing procedures that accurately reflect the demands that will be placed on these information systems following implementation; and (iv) any failure to develop and implement adequate back-up systems and procedures in the event that difficulties or delays arise during or following the implementation of these information systems. In connection with the implementation of these information systems, we may experience functional and performance problems, including problems relating to the information system’s response time and data integrity. In addition, resolution of any such problems could entail significant additional costs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to implement these information systems successfully or on a timely basis and in a cost-effective manner or that these information systems will not fail or prove to be unsuitable for our needs. Our inability to implement or resolve problems with these information systems in a timely and cost-effective manner could materially adversely affect us. If we cannot generate sufficient operating cash flow and obtain external financing, we may be unable to make all of our planned capital expenditures. Our ability to fund anticipated capital expenditures depends on generating sufficient cash flow from operations and the availability of external financing. For example, in fiscal 2006, we expect our capital expenditures to be approximately $650 to $800 million. Our capital expenditures, together with ongoing operating expenses, will be a substantial drain on our cash flow and may decrease our cash balances. The timing and amount of our capital requirements cannot be precisely determined at this time and will depend on a number of factors, including demand for our products, product mix, changes in industry conditions and market competition. We intend to assess regularly markets for external financing opportunities, including debt and equity. Such financing may not be available when needed or, if available, may not be available on satisfactory terms. Any equity financing would cause further dilution to our stockholders. Our inability to obtain needed financing or to generate sufficient cash from operations may require us to abandon projects or curtail capital expenditures. If we cannot generate sufficient operating cash flow or obtain external financing, we may be delayed in achieving such capacity, and we could be materially adversely affected. If our cost reduction efforts are not effective, our business could be materially adversely affected. We incurred a net loss in each of fiscal 2003, fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005 of approximately $129 million, $20 million and $304 million. As a result, we continue to undertake actions in an effort to significantly reduce our expenses. These actions include streamlining operations, continuing to align manufacturing utilization to our level of demand, controlling increasing testing costs and working with AMD and Fujitsu to reduce costs under our service agreements with them. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve significant cost reductions. In addition, we expect to incur significant expenses including cash charges in connection with our cost reduction efforts. If our cost reduction efforts are unsuccessful, we will be materially adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents If we fail to successfully develop, introduce and commercialize new products and technologies or to accelerate our product development cycle, we may be materially adversely affected. Our success depends to a significant extent on the development, qualification, production, introduction and acceptance of new product designs and improvements that provide value to Flash memory customers. We must also be able to accomplish this process at a faster pace than we currently do. Our ability to develop and qualify new products and related technologies to meet evolving industry requirements, at prices acceptable to our customers and on a timely basis are significant factors in determining our competitiveness in our target markets. If we are delayed in developing or qualifying new products or technologies, we could be materially adversely affected. For example, during the second half of fiscal 2004 and the first quarter of fiscal 2005, we experienced a delay in qualifying and introducing a new Flash memory product based on our MirrorBit technology for wireless Flash memory customers. The delay, which was due to our having to re-design the product in order to achieve higher performance specifications under all temperature conditions, contributed to lower than anticipated net sales during the second half of fiscal 2004 and the first six months of fiscal 2005 and caused us to lose market share. We began delivering a version of this product in the first quarter of fiscal 2005, and we began delivering our new, higher performance version of the product by the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2005. In addition, we are currently in the process of transitioning a majority of our products from floating gate technology to MirrorBit technology. If we experience any substantial difficulty with this transition, we will be materially adversely affected. The Flash memory market is highly cyclical and has experienced severe downturns that have materially adversely affected, and may in the future materially adversely affect, our business. The Flash memory market is highly cyclical and has experienced severe downturns, often as a result of wide fluctuations in supply and demand, constant and rapid technological change, continuous new product introductions and price erosion. Our financial performance has been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by these downturns. We have incurred substantial losses in recent downturns, due principally to: • substantial declines in average selling prices, particularly due to aggressive pricing by competitors and an imbalance in product supply and demand; • a decline in demand for end-user products that incorporate our products; and • less than expected demand in the distribution channels such as by mobile phone OEMs in China. For example, our net sales in fiscal 2005 decreased from fiscal 2004. During 2005, average selling prices for our products decreased as a result of aggressive pricing by our competitors due in most cases to oversupply of products in the NOR Flash memory market. Similarly, our net sales in the second half of fiscal 2004 decreased significantly compared to the first half of fiscal 2004. Net sales in the second half of fiscal 2004 were also adversely affected by a decrease in demand from the mobile phone market and several events that occurred in the first half of fiscal 2004, such as excess inventory accumulation by mobile phone OEMs in China and our inability to meet demand for some of our lower density products for embedded Flash memory customers. This inability to meet demand adversely impacted our relationship with these customers and our competitors were able to take advantage of this situation to increase their market share. If these or other similar conditions continue or occur again in the future, we would likely be materially adversely affected. Manufacturing capacity constraints may adversely affect us. There may be situations in which our manufacturing facilities are inadequate to meet the demand for some of our products. For example, in the first half of fiscal 2004, we were not able to meet demand for some of our lower density products for embedded Flash memory customers because in fiscal 2003 we underestimated demand for these products, and were unable to install additional wafer fabrication capacity on a timely basis. We believe this adversely impacted our relationships with customers who received reduced allocations, or did not receive allocations, of our embedded products and our competitors were able to take advantage of this situation to 20 Table of Contents increase their market share in the second half of fiscal 2004. More recently, in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2005, we experienced capacity constraints for final test and assembly of some of our products. While we have worked internally and with subcontractors to increase capacity to meet anticipated demand, we cannot assure you that we will not experience similar constraints in the future. These capacity constraints limit our ability to respond to rapid and short term surges in demand for our products. Our inability to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet anticipated demand, either in our own facilities or through foundry, subcontractor or similar arrangements with third parties, could have a material adverse effect on us. Industry overcapacity could require us to lower our prices and have a material adverse effect on us. Semiconductor companies with their own manufacturing facilities and specialist semiconductor foundries, which are subcontractors that manufacture semiconductors designed by others, have added significant capacity in recent years and are expected to continue to do so. In the past, capacity additions sometimes exceeded demand requirements leading to oversupply situations and downturns in the industry. Fluctuations in the growth rate of industry capacity relative to the growth rate in demand for Flash memory products contribute to cyclicality in the Flash memory market, which may in the future negatively impact our average selling prices and materially adversely affect us. Industry overcapacity could cause us to under-utilize our manufacturing facilities and have a material adverse effect on us. It is difficult to predict future growth or decline in the markets we serve, making it very difficult to estimate requirements for production capacity. If our target markets do not grow as we anticipate, we may under-utilize our manufacturing facilities. This may result in write-downs or write-offs of inventories and losses on products whose demand is lower than we anticipate. In addition, during periods of industry overcapacity, such as we have recently experienced, customers do not generally order products as far in advance of the scheduled shipment date as they do during periods when our industry is operating closer to capacity, which can exacerbate the difficulty in forecasting capacity requirements. Many of our costs are fixed. Accordingly, during periods in which we under-utilize our manufacturing facilities as a result of reduced demand for some of our products, our costs cannot be reduced in proportion to the reduced revenues for such periods. When this occurs, our operating results are materially adversely affected. Our business has been characterized by average selling prices that decline over relatively short time periods, which can negatively affect our results of operations unless we are able to reduce our costs or introduce new products with higher average selling prices. Average selling prices for our products historically have declined over relatively short time periods. For example, in the third quarter of fiscal 2005, our average selling prices decreased by approximately three percent compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2005. In the second quarter of fiscal 2005, our average selling prices decreased by approximately five percent compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2005. In the first quarter of fiscal 2005, our average selling prices decreased by approximately 17 percent compared with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, and in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, our average selling prices decreased by approximately seven percent compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2004. We are unable to predict pricing conditions for any future periods. Even in the absence of downturns or oversupply in the industry, average selling prices of our products have decreased during the products’ lives, and we expect this trend to continue. When our average selling prices decline, our net sales and net income decline unless we are able to compensate by selling more units, reducing our manufacturing costs or introducing new, higher margin products with higher densities and/or advanced features. We have experienced declining average selling prices in the past, and we expect that we will continue to experience them in the future, although we cannot predict when they may occur or how severe they will be. If our average selling prices continue to decline, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents Our historical financial results may not be indicative of our future performance as an independent company. Our historical financial information does not necessarily indicate what our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows will be in the future. After our reorganization as Spansion LLC and prior to our initial public offering, we were a majority-owned subsidiary of AMD, and we sold all of our products to our sole distributors, AMD and Fujitsu, who in turn sold our products to customers worldwide. As we operate as an independent company, we will, among other things, sell products directly to AMD’s former customers and potential customers not served solely by Fujitsu, expand our own administrative functions and reduce our reliance on AMD’s provision of administrative services. If we cannot successfully reduce our reliance on AMD and Fujitsu as we continue to operate as an independent company, we may be materially adversely affected. Intense competition in the Flash memory market could materially adversely affect us. Our principal competitors in the Flash memory market are Intel Corporation, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., STMicroelectronics, Silicon Storage Technology, Inc., Macronix International Co., Ltd., Toshiba Corporation, Sharp Electronics Corp. and Renesas Technology Corp. and may also include the joint venture between Intel and Micron Technology, Inc. (or IM Flash Technology LLC). The Flash memory market is characterized by intense competition. The basis of competition is cost, selling price, performance, quality and customer relationships. In particular, in the past, our competitors have aggressively priced their products in order to increase market share, which resulted in decreased average selling prices for our products in the second half of fiscal 2004 and the first quarter of fiscal 2005 and adversely impacted our results of operations. Some of our competitors, including Intel, Samsung, STMicroelectronics, Toshiba, Sharp and Renesas, are more diversified than us and may be able to sustain lower operating margins in their Flash memory business based on the profitability of their other, non-Flash memory businesses. In addition, recent capital investments by competitors have resulted in substantial industry manufacturing capacity, which may further contribute to a competitive pricing environment. We expect competition in the market for Flash memory devices to increase as existing manufacturers introduce new products, new manufacturers enter the market, industry-wide production capacity increases and competitors aggressively price their Flash memory products to increase market share. Competition also may increase if NOR memory vendors merge or otherwise consolidate their operations. Furthermore, we face increasing competition from NAND Flash memory vendors in some portions of the integrated Flash memory market. We believe, however, that our ORNAND architecture based on MirrorBit technology and our plans to continue to transition to more advanced process technologies will enable us to compete against NAND Flash memory vendors primarily with wireless Flash memory customers. If we are unable to compete effectively using our MirrorBit ORNAND architecture, successfully continue to transition to more advanced process technologies or grow our position in the Flash memory market, we could be materially adversely affected. To compete successfully, we must decrease our manufacturing costs and develop, introduce and sell products that meet the increasing demand for greater Flash memory content in mobile phones, consumer electronics and automotive applications, among other markets, at competitive prices. Competitors may introduce new memory technologies that may make our Flash memory products uncompetitive or obsolete. Competitors are working on a number of new technologies, including FRAM, MRAM, polymer and phase-change based memory technologies. If successfully developed and commercialized as a viable alternative to Flash memory, these technologies could pose a competitive threat to a number of Flash memory companies, including us. Also, we and some of our competitors have licensed Flash memory technology called NROM technology from a third party. NROM technology has characteristics similar to our MirrorBit technology which may allow these competitors to develop new Flash memory technology that is competitive with our MirrorBit technology. 22 Table of Contents If we are unable to diversify our customer base, we could be materially adversely affected. We serve our customers worldwide through our sole distributors, AMD and Fujitsu, who purchase products from us and sell them to these customers, either directly or through their distributors. These customers consist of OEMs, original design manufacturers, or ODMs, and contract manufacturers. In fiscal 2005, the five largest of these customers accounted for a significant portion of end sales of our products by AMD and Fujitsu. Our business strategy is to continue to maintain and increase our market share and diversify our customer base in the integrated category of the Flash memory market. Specifically, we intend to increase our sales to embedded Flash memory customers in part by expanding the number of customers who buy through our distribution channel as well as the number of customers in emerging markets. If we are unsuccessful in executing this strategy, we could be materially adversely affected. We cannot be certain that our substantial investments in research and development will lead to timely improvements in technology or that we will have sufficient resources to invest in the level of research and development that is required to remain competitive. We make substantial investments in research and development for design and process technologies in an effort to design and manufacture advanced Flash memory products. For example, in fiscal 2005, our research and development expenses were $296 million, or approximately 15 percent of our net sales. Of this amount, we incurred $32 million of expenses related to research and development services provided by AMD and Fujitsu. In fiscal 2004, our research and development expenses were $281 million, or approximately 12 percent of our net sales. Of this amount we incurred $54 million of expenses related to research and development services provided by AMD and Fujitsu. Currently, we are developing new non-volatile memory process technologies, including 65-nanometer process technology. Our SDC facility is developing manufacturing process technologies on 200-millimeter and 300-millimeter wafers. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required for us to remain competitive, which could materially adversely affect us. Further, we cannot assure you that our investments in research and development will result in increased sales or competitive advantage, which could adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to timely and efficiently implement 300-millimeter wafer capacity, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We intend to implement manufacturing capacity on 300-millimeter wafers. Our goal is to have this capacity in place in 2008, although our board of directors has not yet approved a definitive capital expenditure plan for achieving such capacity. The timing for implementing 300-millimeter capacity will depend in part on the demand for our Flash memory products and on our ability to fund the construction of such a facility if we choose to develop the capacity internally or our ability to enter into a foundry manufacturing agreement if we choose to work with a foundry manufacturer. If we are delayed in implementing this capability or are unable to obtain foundry services at competitive rates or to timely and efficiently ramp production on 300-millimeter wafers, we would not achieve anticipated cost savings associated with this technology and we could be materially adversely affected. Unless we maintain manufacturing efficiency, our future profitability could be materially adversely affected. The Flash memory industry is characterized by rapid technological changes. For example, new manufacturing process technologies using smaller feature sizes and offering better performance characteristics are generally introduced every one to two years. The introduction of new manufacturing process technologies allows us to increase the functionality of our products while at the same time optimizing performance parameters, decreasing power consumption and/or increasing storage capacity. In addition, the reduction of feature sizes enables us to produce smaller chips offering the same functionality and thereby considerably 23 Table of Contents reduces the costs per bit. In order to remain competitive, it is essential that we secure the capabilities to develop and qualify new manufacturing process technologies. For example, our Flash memory products must be manufactured at 90-nanometer and more advanced process technologies and on 300-millimeter wafers. If we are delayed in transitioning to these technologies and other future technologies, we could be materially adversely affected. Manufacturing our products involves highly complex processes that require advanced equipment. Our manufacturing efficiency is an important factor in our profitability, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain or increase our manufacturing efficiency to the same extent as our competitors. For example, we continuously modify our manufacturing processes in an effort to improve yields and product performance and decrease costs. We are currently transitioning to 90-nanometer process technology for the manufacture of some of our products. During periods when we are implementing new process technologies, manufacturing facilities may not be fully productive. We may fail to achieve acceptable yields or may experience product delivery delays as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, delays in the development of new process technologies, changes in our process technologies, upgrades or expansion of existing facilities, impurities or other difficulties in the manufacturing process. Improving our manufacturing efficiency in future periods is dependent on our ability to: • develop advanced process technologies and advanced products that utilize those technologies; • successfully transition to 90-nanometer and more advanced process technologies; • ramp product and process technology improvements rapidly and effectively to commercial volumes across our facilities; and • achieve acceptable levels of manufacturing wafer output and yields, which may decrease as we implement more advanced technologies. If we cannot adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property in the United States and abroad, through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and other measures, we may lose a competitive advantage and incur significant expenses. We rely on a combination of protections provided by contracts, including confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements, copyrights, patents, trademarks and common law rights, such as trade secrets, to protect our intellectual property. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property from third party infringement or from misappropriation in the United States and abroad. Any patent owned or licensed by us or issued to us could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or rights granted thereunder may not provide a competitive advantage to us. Furthermore, patent applications that we file may not result in issuance of a patent or, if a patent is issued, the patent may not be issued in a form that is advantageous to us. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, others may independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around our patents and other rights. In addition, it is difficult to monitor compliance with, and enforce, our intellectual property on a worldwide basis in a cost-effective manner. Foreign laws may provide less intellectual property protection than afforded in the United States. If we cannot adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property in the United States and abroad, we may be materially adversely affected. We are party to intellectual property litigation and may become party to other intellectual property claims or litigation that could cause us to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages or prohibit us from selling our products. From time to time, we may be notified, or third parties may bring actions against us based on allegations, that we are infringing the intellectual property rights of others. If any such claims are asserted against us, we may seek to obtain a license under the third party’s intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that we will be 24 Table of Contents able to obtain all of the necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. In the event that we cannot obtain a license, these parties may file lawsuits against us seeking damages (potentially including treble damages) or an injunction against the sale of our products that incorporate allegedly infringed intellectual property or against the operation of our business as presently conducted, which could result in our having to stop the sale of some of our products, increase the costs of selling some of our products, or cause damage to our reputation. The award of damages, including material royalty payments, or the entry of an injunction against the manufacture and sale of some or all of our products, would have a material adverse effect on us. We could decide, in the alternative, to redesign our products or to resort to litigation to challenge or defend such claims. Tessera, Inc. filed a lawsuit against us alleging that we have infringed certain of Tessera’s patents. Tessera has sought to enjoin such alleged infringement and to recover an unspecified amount of damages. In addition, Fujitsu has informed us that it has been informed by Texas Instruments Inc. that Texas Instruments believes that several of our products infringe some of Texas Instruments’ patents. Fujitsu has also informed us that it expects us to defend and indemnify Fujitsu against Texas Instruments’ claims in accordance with the terms of our distribution agreement with Fujitsu. Defending these claims and similar claims could be extremely expensive and time-consuming and defending these claims or others or the award of damages or an injunction could have a material adverse effect on us. We cannot assure you that litigation related to the intellectual property rights of ours or others can be avoided or will be successfully concluded. We may not be successful in establishing a brand identity. We have used the brand name of “Spansion” only since June 30, 2003. Prior to that time, all Flash memory products were sold under either AMD’s or Fujitsu’s brand. AMD’s and Fujitsu’s brand names are well known by Flash memory customers, suppliers and potential employees. We will need to expend significant time, effort and resources to continue to establish our brand name in the marketplace. We cannot guarantee that this effort will ultimately be successful. If we are unsuccessful in continuing to establish our brand identity, we may be materially adversely affected. If essential equipment or materials are not available to manufacture our products, we could be materially adversely affected. Our manufacturing operations depend upon obtaining deliveries of equipment and adequate supplies of materials on a timely basis. We purchase equipment and materials from a number of suppliers. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supply to us or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Because the equipment that we purchase is complex, it is difficult for us to substitute one supplier for another or one piece of equipment for another. Some raw materials we use in the manufacture of our products are available from a limited number of suppliers. For example, we purchase commercial memory die, such as SRAM, pSRAM, lpSDRAM and NAND, from third-party suppliers and incorporate these die into multi-chip package, or MCP, products. Our production was constrained in the first half of fiscal 2004 because of difficulties in procuring adequate supply of pSRAM. In addition, some of our major suppliers, including Samsung, are also our competitors. Interruption of supply from a competitor that is a supplier or otherwise or increased demand in the industry could cause shortages and price increases in various essential materials. If we are unable to procure these materials, we may have to reduce our manufacturing operations. Such a reduction has in the past had and could in the future have a material adverse effect on us. Our inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could impact our business. Our future success depends upon the continued service of numerous qualified engineering, manufacturing, marketing and executive personnel, including a new Chief Financial Officer. We cannot assure you that our equity incentive plan or our employee benefit plans or the performance of our management system will be effective in motivating or retaining our employees or attracting new employees. Competition for qualified employees among companies that rely heavily on engineering and technology is intense, and the loss of qualified employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees could materially adversely affect us. 25 Table of Contents Costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on us. One or more of our products may be found to be defective after the product has been shipped to customers in volume. The cost of product replacements or product returns may be substantial, and our reputation with our customers would be damaged. In addition, we could incur substantial costs to implement modifications to fix defects. Any of these problems could materially adversely affect us. Uncertainties involving the ordering of our products could materially adversely affect us. Flash memory suppliers compete in part on the basis of their ability to deliver products to end customers on short lead times and it is common for prevailing lead times in the market to be shorter than the minimum manufacturing cycle time. To deliver products with competitive lead times, we must maintain a buffer stock of product to fulfill customer orders. Because our buffer stock must be produced before customer orders are received, our production levels are based on forecasts of customer demand. AMD and Fujitsu are currently the sole distributors of our products, and will continue to be so through mid-2006. Typically, customers place an order with AMD or Fujitsu who simultaneously places an order with us. AMD and Fujitsu do not maintain any significant buffer inventory. Consequently, we are responsible for producing and holding any necessary buffer stock. Generally, AMD or Fujitsu sells our products pursuant to individual purchase orders from these customers. These customers may cancel their orders for standard products with AMD or Fujitsu thirty days prior to shipment without incurring a significant penalty. We extend similar rights to AMD and Fujitsu. Customer demand may be difficult to predict because such customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason or they may cancel or defer product orders. Inaccurate forecasts of customer demand or cancellation or deferral of product orders could result in excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in write-downs of inventory. Historically, we based our inventory levels on AMD’s and Fujitsu’s non-binding forecasts of demand, which in turn were based on forecasts by their customers. Commencing in mid-2006, we plan to sell directly to customers currently served by AMD, but we will continue to experience such inventory risks with respect to these customers. Because market conditions are uncertain, these factors could materially adversely affect us. We may not achieve the sales that are suggested by our book-to-bill ratio. Our book-to-bill ratio is a demand-to-supply ratio for orders, which we calculate by dividing the value of orders booked during a fiscal quarter by the value of orders invoiced during that quarter. We determine bookings based on orders that are received. However, the rate of booking new orders can vary significantly from month to month as demand for our products fluctuates frequently and orders may be cancelled or delayed. For these reasons, our book-to-bill ratio should not be relied on as an indication of future sales. Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect us. As a result of our foreign operations, we have sales, costs, assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the Japanese yen. For example: • some of our manufacturing costs are denominated in yen, Chinese renminbi and other foreign currencies such as the Thai baht and Malaysian ringgit; • some of the sales of our products to Fujitsu are denominated in Japanese yen; and • some fixed asset purchases are denominated in Japanese yen and European Union euros. After we begin to sell directly to customers currently served by AMD, we expect to also have sales denominated in European Union euro. As a consequence, movements in exchange rates could cause our U.S. dollar-denominated expenses to increase as a percentage of net sales, affecting our profitability and cash flows. Whenever we believe appropriate, we cover a portion of our foreign currency exchange exposure to protect against fluctuations in currency exchange rates. As of December 25, 2005, we had an aggregate of $49.6 million (notional amount) of short-term foreign currency forward exchange contracts denominated in yen. However, generally, we cover only a portion of our foreign currency exchange exposure. Moreover, we determine our total 26 Table of Contents foreign currency exchange exposure using projections of long-term expenditures for items such as equipment and materials used in manufacturing. We cannot assure you that these activities will be successful in reducing our foreign exchange rate exposure. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on us. Worldwide economic and political conditions may adversely affect demand for our products. Worldwide economic conditions may adversely affect demand for our products. For example, China’s economy has been growing at a fast pace over the past several years, and the Chinese government introduced various measures to slow down the pace of economic growth. We believe some of these measures negatively impacted demand for our Flash memory products in the second half of fiscal 2004. A decline in economic conditions in China could lead to declining worldwide economic conditions. If economic conditions decline, whether in China or worldwide, we could be materially adversely affected. The occurrence and threat of terrorist attacks and the consequences of sustained military action in the Middle East have in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect demand for our products. In addition, terrorist attacks may negatively affect our operations, directly or indirectly, and such attacks or related armed conflicts may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. Furthermore, these attacks may make travel and the transportation of our products more difficult and more expensive, which could materially adversely affect us. The United States has been and may continue to be involved in armed conflicts that could have a further impact on our sales and our supply chain. Political and economic instability in some regions of the world may also result and could negatively impact our business. The consequences of armed conflicts are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have a material adverse effect on us. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. economy and worldwide financial markets. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on us. Our operations in foreign countries are subject to political and economic risks, which could have a material adverse effect on us. The majority of our wafer fabrication capacity is located in Japan and nearly all final test and assembly of our products is performed at our facilities in China, Malaysia and Thailand and by third parties in Taiwan and Japan. In addition, we have international sales operations and, as part of our business strategy, we are continuing to seek to expand our product sales in high growth markets. The political and economic risks associated with our sales to and operations in foreign countries include: • expropriation; • changes in political or economic conditions; • changes in tax laws, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • difficulties in protecting our intellectual property; • difficulties in achieving headcount reductions; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • Restrictions on transfers of funds and other assets of our subsidiaries between jurisdictions; • changes in freight and interest rates; • disruption in air transportation between the United States and our overseas facilities; and • loss or modification of exemptions for taxes and tariffs. Any conflict or uncertainty in the countries in which we operate, including public health or safety concerns, natural disasters or general economic factors, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any of the above risks, should they occur, could have a material adverse effect on us. 27 Table of Contents We are subject to a variety of environmental laws that could result in liabilities. Our operations and properties are subject to various U.S., Japanese, European and other foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to materials used in our products and manufacturing processes, discharge of pollutants into the environment, the treatment, transport, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, and remediation of contamination. These laws and regulations require us to obtain permits for our operations, including the discharge of air pollutants and wastewater. From time to time, our facilities are subject to investigation by governmental regulators. We cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws, regulations and permits. If we violate or fail to comply with any of them, a range of consequences could result, including fines, suspension of production, alteration of manufacturing processes, sales limitations, criminal and civil liabilities or other sanctions. We could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of exposure to hazardous materials used, stored, released, disposed of by us or located at or under our facilities or other environmental or natural resource damage. Certain environmental laws, including the U.S. Comprehensive, Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or the Superfund Act, impose strict, joint and several liability on current and previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances and impose liability for damages to natural resources. These laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. These environmental laws also assess liability on persons who arrange for hazardous substances to be sent to disposal or treatment facilities when such facilities are found to be contaminated. Such persons can be responsible for cleanup costs even if they never owned or operated the contaminated facility. Two of our manufacturing sites are, or are located within, a federal Superfund site. Although we have not yet been, we could be named a potentially responsible party at these or other Superfund or other contaminated sites in the future. The costs associated with such sites could be material. In addition, contamination that has not yet been identified could exist at our other facilities. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. For example, the European Union recently began imposing stricter requirements regarding reduced lead content in semiconductor packaging. While we have budgeted for foreseeable environmental expenditures, we cannot assure you that environmental laws will not change or become more stringent in the future. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances will not have a material adverse effect on us. Our worldwide operations and the operations of our suppliers could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. For example, our corporate headquarters are located near major earthquake fault lines in California, and three of our four wafer fabrication facilities are located near major earthquake fault lines in Japan. In addition, our assembly and test facilities are located in China, Malaysia and Thailand and may be subject to tsunamis. In the event of a major earthquake, tsunami or other natural or manmade disaster, we could experience loss of life of our employees, destruction of facilities or other business interruptions, any of which could materially adversely affect us. Furthermore, the operations of our raw material suppliers could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could cause shortages and price increases in various essential raw materials, such as liquid hydrogen, which are required to manufacture our products. If we are unable to procure an adequate supply of raw materials that are required for us to manufacture our products, or if the operations of our other suppliers of such raw materials are affected by natural disasters or business disruptions, we may have to reduce our manufacturing operations. Such a reduction could in the future have a material adverse effect on us. 28 Table of Contents We may be delayed or prevented from taking actions that require the consent of AMD and Fujitsu, whose interests may differ from or conflict with our interests or those of our other stockholders, which could decrease the value of your shares. Our bylaws provide that for so long as AMD or Fujitsu maintains specified ownership levels in our common stock, we will not be able to take the following actions without the prior consent of AMD and Fujitsu: • enter into any joint venture, strategic alliance or similar arrangement: • with an integrated electronics manufacturer having the majority of its assets or business operations in Japan and annual semiconductor revenue in excess of one hundred billion yen; • prior to June 30, 2007, relating to manufacturing, memory product design or complimentary metal oxide semiconductor, or CMOS, product development that involves actual or potential contribution of cash or assets by us to such joint venture or to a third party exceeding $50 million in any fiscal year or $250 million in the aggregate over the life of the joint venture or arrangement, excluding arrangements for providing foundry services with entities that derive more than 75 percent of their revenue from foundry services or arrangements for the assembly, pack, mark and test of semiconductor devices; or • relating to activities unrelated to manufacturing, memory product design or CMOS process development that involve the actual or potential contribution of cash or assets by us exceeding $200 million in any fiscal year or $1 billion in the aggregate over the life of the joint venture or arrangement; for so long as AMD’s or Fujitsu’s aggregate ownership interest is at least 22.5 percent; • engage in or undertake any material activity unrelated to our current Flash memory business, for so long as AMD’s or Fujitsu’s aggregate ownership interest is at least 20 percent; • amend the charter documents of any of our subsidiaries if such amendment would adversely and disproportionately affect either AMD or Fujitsu, for so long as AMD’s or Fujitsu’s aggregate ownership interest is at least 15 percent; • amend our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or effect any resolution to wind up Spansion Inc. or any other subsidiary, for so long as AMD’s or Fujitsu’s aggregate ownership interest is at least ten percent; • shut down operations at JV3 before April 1, 2007, shut down any facilities of the non-manufacturing organization of our wholly owned subsidiary, Spansion Japan, before April 1, 2007, shut down operations at JV1 or JV2 before April 1, 2007 without giving AMD and Fujitsu six months advance notice, or shut down operations at our assembly and test facility in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia before April 1, 2007 without giving AMD and Fujitsu three months advance notice, for so long as AMD or Fujitsu owns any shares of our common stock; or • reduce headcount at JV1, JV2 or JV3 by more than ten percent prior to April 1, 2007 or reduce headcount at any facilities of the non-manufacturing organization of Spansion Japan by more than 15 percent prior to April 1, 2007 for so long as AMD or Fujitsu owns any shares of our common stock. We cannot assure you that the interests of AMD and Fujitsu will be aligned with our interests or those of our other stockholders with respect to such decisions. As a result, we may be unable to take steps that we believe are desirable and in the best interests of our stockholders. In addition, these consent rights could make an acquisition of us more difficult, even if the acquisition may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. The interests of AMD and Fujitsu, and our directors nominated by them, may differ from or conflict with our interests or those of our other stockholders. When exercising their rights as our stockholders, either alone or in concert, AMD and Fujitsu may take into account not only our interests but also their interests and the interests of their other affiliates. Our interests and 29 Table of Contents the interests of AMD and Fujitsu may at times conflict since the growth of our business depends, in part, on successful competition with other semiconductor companies. These conflicts may result in lost corporate opportunities for us, including opportunities to enter into lines of business that may overlap with those pursued by AMD and Fujitsu. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and, even if we do so, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with unaffiliated parties. Various other conflicts of interest between our two principal stockholders and us may arise in the future in a number of areas relating to our business and relationships, including potential acquisitions of businesses or properties, intellectual property matters, transfers by AMD or Fujitsu of all or any portion of its ownership interest in us or its other assets, which could be to one of our competitors, indemnity arrangements, service arrangements and business opportunities that may be attractive to AMD, Fujitsu and us. AMD and Fujitsu are our two largest stockholders. AMD has the right to elect two members to our board of directors. Fujitsu has the right to elect one member to our board of directors. Each stockholder’s ability to elect directors is subject to reduction based on the amount of our common stock that they own and this right terminates when their ownership in us falls below ten percent. In addition, the directors appointed by AMD and Fujitsu continue to hold positions at AMD and Fujitsu. Individuals who are our directors and also officers of either AMD or Fujitsu have a duty of care and loyalty to us when acting in their capacities as our directors and a duty of care and loyalty to AMD or Fujitsu when acting as their officers or directors. However, our certificate of incorporation provides that in the event a director or officer of our company who is also a director or officer of AMD or Fujitsu acquires knowledge of a potential business opportunity that may be deemed a corporate opportunity of our company and AMD or Fujitsu, such opportunity will belong to AMD or Fujitsu, as applicable, unless it has been expressly offered to such director or officer in writing solely in his or her capacity as a director or officer of our company. Ownership of AMD common stock, or options to acquire AMD common stock by any of our directors and officers could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when those directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for AMD than they do for us. Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for liabilities of AMD and Fujitsu that we did not assume in our agreements. Under our agreements with AMD and Fujitsu, we agreed to assume liabilities related to our business after June 30, 2003 and liabilities related to our business prior to June 30, 2003 if such liabilities were reflected as accruals or reserves on the AMD and Fujitsu contributed balance sheets. Our assumed liabilities include claims made with respect to Flash memory products sold after June 30, 2003, even if such products were manufactured prior to June 30, 2003, and warranty claims with respect to products sold prior to June 30, 2003 to the extent such warranty claims were reflected as accruals or reserves on the AMD and Fujitsu contributed balance sheets. The allocation of assets and liabilities between AMD, Fujitsu and us may not reflect the allocation that would have been reached between unaffiliated parties and may be less favorable to us as a result. Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for AMD’s and Fujitsu’s retained liabilities. If our losses for AMD’s and Fujitsu’s retained liabilities were significant and we were ultimately held liable for them, we cannot assure you that we would be able to recover the full amount of our losses. We currently rely on AMD and Fujitsu for a number of services and our business may suffer if we do not timely and cost-effectively establish our own administrative and support systems. We currently rely on AMD and Fujitsu for a large number of administrative and information technology services. We intend to reduce our reliance on AMD and Fujitsu and the services they provide to us. Accordingly, we will need to create our own systems, or we may choose to contract with other third parties to replace AMD or Fujitsu. However, during the transition period, which could be substantial, we will still rely on AMD and Fujitsu for a large number of services. Although we are working with AMD and Fujitsu to reduce the costs under our 30 Table of Contents existing service agreements with them, if we are unable to successfully reduce our costs under these agreements or if we are unable to make this transition to our own systems in a timely and cost-effective manner, the costs associated with these services may have a material adverse effect on us. We rely on Fujitsu to be our sole distributor in Japan. We currently rely on Fujitsu to act as the sole distributor of our products to customers in Japan, which in fiscal 2005 was one of our most important geographic markets. Under our distribution agreement with Fujitsu, Fujitsu has agreed to use its best efforts to promote the sale of our products in Japan and to other customers served by Fujitsu. In the event that we reasonably determine that Fujitsu’s sales performance in Japan and to those customers served by Fujitsu is not satisfactory based on specified criteria, then we have the right to require Fujitsu to propose and implement an agreed-upon corrective action plan. If we reasonably believe that the corrective action plan is inadequate, we can take steps to remedy deficiencies ourselves through means that include appointing another distributor as a supplementary distributor to sell products in Japan and to customers served by Fujitsu. Pursuing these actions would be costly and disruptive to the sales of our products in Japan. If Fujitsu’s sales performance in Japan were unsatisfactory, and we could not timely find a suitable supplementary distributor, we would be materially adversely affected. We may experience increased costs resulting from decreased purchasing power since we are no longer a majority-owned subsidiary of AMD. When we were a majority-owned subsidiary of AMD, AMD procured goods, such as raw materials, technology, such as software licenses, and services on our behalf, and we benefited from AMD’s size and purchasing power. Now that we are no longer a majority-owned subsidiary of AMD and we are an independent company, AMD is not able to procure goods, technology and services for us under AMD’s existing agreements with suppliers. Because we are a smaller and less diversified company than AMD is today, and we do not have access to financial and other resources comparable to those of AMD, we may be unable to obtain goods, technology and services at prices and on terms as favorable as those available to us while we were a majority-owned subsidiary of AMD, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, AMD relied on third-party providers to deliver our products to customers, to distribute materials for our wafer fabrication facilities and to provide some information technology services to us, including helpdesk support, desktop application services, business and software support applications, server and storage administration, data center operations, database administration and voice, video and remote access. We are no longer be a beneficiary under these agreements, and have to renegotiate the terms with these suppliers or bring these capabilities in-house. Vendors may require the payment of additional fees, which could have a material adverse effect on us. AMD and Fujitsu may continue to use all of our intellectual property and the intellectual property they have transferred to us. In connection with our reorganization as Spansion LLC in June 2003, AMD and Fujitsu transferred approximately 400 patents and patent applications to us. In addition, AMD and Fujitsu contributed additional patents to us at the time of our initial public offering. However, both AMD and Fujitsu have retained the rights to use any patents contributed to us for an unlimited period of time. In addition, under their respective patent cross-license agreements with us, AMD and Fujitsu have also obtained licenses to our present and future patents with effective filing dates prior to the later of June 30, 2013 or such date on which they have transferred all of their shares in us, although the scope of patents under license can be impacted by a change in control of the parties or their semiconductor groups. These licenses continue until the last to expire of the patents under license expires. Furthermore, while the cross-license agreements provide AMD and Fujitsu with ongoing perpetual licenses to all of our present and future patents and technologies in existence through such cross-license termination date, our right to Fujitsu’s patents and technologies is more limited. 31 Table of Contents Under our non-competition agreement, both AMD and Fujitsu have agreed that they will not directly or indirectly engage in a business, and have agreed to divest any acquired business, that manufactures or supplies standalone semiconductor devices (including single chip, multiple chip or system devices) containing only Flash memory, which is the business in which we primarily compete. With respect to each of AMD and Fujitsu, this non-competition restriction will last until the earlier of (i) two years from the date such stockholder’s ownership in us falls below five percent, or (ii) the dissolution of our company. After that time, should it ever decide to re-enter the Flash memory business, AMD or Fujitsu could use on a perpetual basis our present and future patents and technologies in existence through the cross-license termination date to compete against us. If either AMD or Fujitsu were to compete with us, we could be materially adversely affected. Our share price may decline because of the ability of AMD and Fujitsu to sell shares of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the possibility of those sales, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional equity securities. Subject to transfer restrictions described below to which we are not a beneficiary and any applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws, after the expiration on May 15, 2006 of a 180-day lock-up period (which may be waived by representatives of the underwriters of our initial public offering), AMD and Fujitsu may sell shares of our common stock that they beneficially own. In addition, after the expiration of this 180-day period, we could issue and sell additional shares of our common stock. Any sale by AMD, Fujitsu or us of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. AMD and Fujitsu have entered into a stockholders agreement with us, which provides for, among other things, restrictions on their ability to transfer their shares. AMD and Fujitsu have agreed with each other that neither of them will transfer any shares of our common stock, except to certain affiliates, until the earlier of December 21, 2006 or the conversion of the Class D common stock. In addition, neither stockholder can transfer shares in an amount equal to or greater than one percent of the then common stock outstanding to any entity whose principal business competes with us, unless first obtaining the written consent of the non-transferring stockholder, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld after June 30, 2007. Our share price may be volatile, and stockholders may be unable to sell their shares at or above the purchase price. We recently had an initial public offering of our Class A common shares. The initial public offering price for our shares was determined by negotiations between us and representatives of the underwriters and may not be indicative of prices that will prevail in the trading market. The market price of shares of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many risk factors listed in this section, and others beyond our control, including: • changes in projections of our operating results by securities analysts; • fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived to be comparable to us; and • share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels or other factors. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of shares of our common stock. If the market price of shares of our common stock does not increase, stockholders may not realize any return on their investment in us and may lose some or all of their investment. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could materially adversely affect us. 32 Table of Contents If securities or industry analysts do not publish research reports about our business, or publish negative reports about our business, the price and trading volume of our securities could decline. The trading market for our securities, including the notes sold by Spansion LLC, our indirect wholly owned subsidiary, will depend, in part, on the research reports and ratings that securities or industry analysts or ratings agencies publish about us, our business and the Flash memory market in general. We do not have any control over these analysts or agencies. If one or more of the analysts or agencies who cover us downgrades us or our securities, the price of our securities may decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause the price of our securities or trading volume to decline. Being a public company increases our expenses and administrative burden. As a public company, we are incurring significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, our administrative staff is required to perform additional tasks. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq Stock Market, are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, our stockholders’ only opportunity to achieve a return on their investment is through appreciation in the price of our common stock. We currently do not plan to pay dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future and are currently prohibited from doing so in specific circumstances under agreements governing our borrowing arrangements. The terms of our senior secured revolving credit facility limit our ability to pay cash dividends on any shares of our common stock. Furthermore, if we are in default under this credit facility, our ability to pay cash dividends will be limited in the absence of a waiver of that default or an amendment to that facility. Similar prohibitions are applicable under the indenture governing Spansion LLC’s outstanding notes. In addition, because we are a holding company, our ability to pay cash dividends on shares of our common stock may be limited by restrictions on our ability to obtain sufficient funds through dividends from our subsidiaries, including the restrictions under the indenture governing the notes. Our common stock will rank junior as to payment of dividends to any series of preferred stock that we may issue in the future. Generally, unless full dividends including any cumulative dividends still owing on all outstanding shares of any preferred stock have been paid, no dividends will be declared or paid on our common stock. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in our company will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates. Our issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect holders of our common stock. Our board of directors is authorized to issue series of shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders. Our board of directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms 33 Table of Contents of any such series of shares of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or if we liquidate, dissolve or wind up our business and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our affairs, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Provisions in our corporate governance documents as well as Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us that stockholders may consider favorable, which could decrease the value of your shares. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to remove directors, a classified board of directors and limitations on action by our stockholders by written consent. In addition, our board of directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to make an acquisition of us more difficult. Although we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics and thereby provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 