ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this annual report. If any of the following risks materialize, our business could be materially harmed, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. As a result, the price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Certain statements in this report contain words such as “could,” “expect,” “may,” “anticipate,” “will,” “believe,” “intend,” “estimate,” “plan,” “envision,” “seek” and other similar language and are considered forward-looking statements. These statements are based on our current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the operating environment, economies and markets in which we operate. In addition, other written or oral statements that are considered forward-looking may be made by us or others on our behalf. These statements are subject to important risks, uncertainties and assumptions, that are difficult to predict and actual outcomes may be materially different. The Creditor Protection Proceedings will have a direct impact on our business and exacerbate these risks and uncertainties. In particular, the risks described below could cause actual events to differ materially from those contemplated in forward-looking statements. Unless otherwise required by applicable securities laws, we do not have any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Risks Related to the Creditor Protection Proceedings On February 10, 2009 (the Proceeding Date), Spansion Japan Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Spansion LLC (Spansion Japan), filed a proceeding under the Corporate Reorganization Law (Kaisha Kosei Ho) of Japan to obtain protection from Spansion Japan’s creditors (the Spansion Japan Proceeding), and successively the Spansion Japan proceeding was formally commenced on March 3, 2009 (the Commencement Date), when the Tokyo District Court entered the commencement order and appointed the incumbent representative director of Spansion Japan as trustee. On March 1, 2009 (the Petition Date), Spansion Inc., Spansion Technology LLC, Spansion International, Inc. and Cerium Laboratories LLC each filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware (the Chapter 11 Cases, together with the Spansion Japan Proceeding, the Creditor Protection Proceedings). The following risks relate to the Creditor Protection Proceedings. 19 Table of Contents Our business, operations and financial position are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with the Creditor Protection Proceedings. For the duration of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, our business, operations and financial position will be subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with such proceedings. These risks, without limitation and in addition to the risks otherwise noted in this report, are comprised of: Strategic risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • stabilize the business to maximize the chances of preserving all or a portion of the enterprise; • develop a comprehensive restructuring plan and narrow our strategic focus on the embedded solutions business in an effective and timely manner; • resolve ongoing issues with creditors and other third parties whose interests may differ from ours; • obtain creditor, court and any other requisite third party approvals for a comprehensive restructuring plan; • successfully implement a comprehensive restructuring plan; and • identify, pursue and successfully execute strategic alternatives for our wireless business. Financial risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • generate cash from operations and maintain adequate available cash; • if necessary, arrange for sufficient debtor-in-possession or other financing during the Creditor Protection Proceedings; • continue to maintain currently approved intercompany lending and transfer pricing arrangements and ongoing deployment of cash resources throughout the Company in connection with ordinary course intercompany trade obligations and requirements; • continue to maintain our cash management arrangements; and obtain any further approvals from the court, creditors or other third parties, as necessary to continue such arrangements; • raise capital to satisfy claims, including our ability to sell assets to satisfy claims against us; • if necessary, obtain sufficient exit financing to support a comprehensive restructuring plan; • maintain research and development investments; and • realize full or fair value for any assets or business we may divest as part of a comprehensive restructuring plan. Operational risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • continue operating as a globally integrated unit with Spansion Japan due to actions taken by either (i) Spansion Japan (at the direction of the Spansion Japan trustee or pursuant to orders of the Japanese Court or otherwise) or (ii) Spansion Inc. or Spansion LLC (pursuant to the order of the U.S. Bankruptcy Court or otherwise); • attract and retain customers despite the uncertainty caused by the Creditor Protection Proceedings; • avoid reduction in, or delay or suspension of, customer orders as a result of the uncertainty caused by the Creditor Protection Proceedings, including uncertainty surrounding future research and development expenditures and manufacturing plans; • maintain market segment share, as our competitors move to capitalize on customer concerns; • operate our business effectively in consultation with the court and creditors; 20 Table of Contents • actively and adequately communicate on and respond to events, media and rumors associated with the Creditor Protection Proceedings that could adversely affect our relationships with customers, suppliers, partners and employees; • retain and incentivize key employees and attract new employees; • retain, or if necessary, replace major suppliers on acceptable terms; • avoid disruptions in our supply chain as a result of uncertainties related to our Creditor Protection Proceedings; and • maintain current relationships with strategic alliance partners. Procedural risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • obtain court orders or approvals with respect to motions we file from time to time, including motions seeking extensions of the applicable stays of actions and proceedings against us, or obtain timely approval of transactions outside the ordinary course of business, or other events that may require a timely reaction by us or present opportunities for us; • resolve the claims made against us in such proceedings for amounts not exceeding our recorded liabilities subject to compromise; • prevent third parties from obtaining court orders or approvals that are contrary to our interests, such as the termination or shortening of the exclusivity period in the United States during which we can propose and seek confirmation of a comprehensive restructuring plan or the conversion of our Chapter 11 Cases to Chapter 7 liquidation cases; in which case the U.S. Bankruptcy Court would sell the Debtors non-exempt property and distribute the proceeds to our creditors in accordance with the U.S. Bankruptcy Code; and • reject, repudiate or terminate contracts. Because of these risks and uncertainties, and because we have not yet completed a comprehensive restructuring plan, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the restructuring process, or predict or quantify the potential impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The Creditor Protection Proceedings provide us with a period of time to attempt to stabilize our operations and financial condition and develop a comprehensive restructuring plan. However, it is not possible to predict the outcome of these proceedings and, as such, the realization of assets and discharge of liabilities are each subject to significant uncertainty. Accordingly, substantial doubt exists as to whether we will be able to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has included a going-concern explanatory paragraph in its report on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 28, 2008. Our continuation as a going concern is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to develop, obtain confirmation or approval and implement a comprehensive restructuring plan; generate cash from operations, maintain adequate cash on hand and obtain sufficient other financing during the Creditor Protection Proceedings and thereafter; resolve ongoing issues with creditors and other third parties; and achieve profitability. Even assuming a successful emergence from the Creditor Protection Proceedings, we cannot assure you as to the overall long-term viability of our operational reorganization, including our ability to generate sufficient cash to support our operating needs, fulfill our transformation objectives and fund continued investment in technology and product development without incurring substantial indebtedness that will hinder our ability to compete, adapt to market changes and grow our business in the future. In addition, our ability to raise long-term financing will in part depend on the fair market valuation of our business at emergence and the amount of leverage already inherent in our balance sheet. The application of fresh start accounting principles in accordance with U.S. GAAP upon eventual emergence from bankruptcy may result in valuations of long-lived and intangible assets that are less than the carrying value of those assets as currently reflected in the financial statements, which may further hinder our ability to raise financing at or subsequent to emergence from the Creditor Protection Proceedings. 21 Table of Contents In addition, a long period of operating under Creditor Protection Proceedings may exacerbate the potential harm to our business and further restrict our ability to pursue certain business strategies or require us to take actions that we otherwise would not. These challenges are in addition to business, operational and competitive challenges that we would normally face absent the Creditor Protection Proceedings. Continuing or increasing pressure on our business, cash and liquidity could materially and adversely affect our ability to fund and restructure our business operations, react to and withstand the current sustained and expanding economic downturn, as well as volatile and uncertain market and industry conditions, and develop and implement a comprehensive restructuring plan. Additional sources of funds may not be available. Our restructuring measures in recent years have not provided adequate relief from the significant pressures we are experiencing. As global economic conditions dramatically worsened beginning the fourth quarter of 2008, we experienced significant pressure on our business and faced a deterioration of our cash and liquidity, globally as well as on a regional basis, as customers across all businesses suspended, delayed and reduced their expenditures. The extreme volatility in the financial, foreign exchange, equity and credit markets globally and the expanding economic downturn and potentially prolonged recessionary period have compounded the situation. We are continuing to experience significant pressure due to global economic conditions and additionally, we are seeing further impact to our business as a result of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. Historically, we have deployed our cash throughout the enterprise, through a variety of intercompany borrowing and transfer pricing arrangements. As a result of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, cash in the various jurisdictions is generally available to fund operations in the particular jurisdictions, but generally is not freely transferable between jurisdictions or regions, other than as highlighted in “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this report. Thus, there is greater pressure and reliance on cash balances and generation capacity in specific regions and jurisdictions. We cannot assure you that any further required court approvals for any future financing transactions will be obtained. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to maintain ongoing deployment of cash resources throughout our organization worldwide in connection with ordinary course intercompany trade obligations. If our subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends or provide us with loans or other forms of financing in sufficient amounts, or if we continue to have restrictions on the transfer of cash between us and our subsidiaries, including those imposed by courts, foreign governments and commercial limitations on transfers of cash, our cash position would likely be under considerable pressure and our liquidity and our ability to meet our obligations would be adversely affected. Access to additional funds from liquidity-generating transactions, debtor-in-possession financing arrangements or other sources of external financing may not be available to us and, if available, would be subject to market conditions and certain limitations including court approvals and other requisite approvals by other third parties. We cannot provide any assurance that our net cash requirements will be as we currently expect and will be sufficient for the successful development, approval and implementation of a comprehensive restructuring plan. We must continue to restructure and transform our business and the assumptions underlying these efforts may prove to be inaccurate. We may not be able to successfully develop, obtain all requisite approvals for, or implement a comprehensive restructuring plan. Failure to obtain the requisite approvals for, or failure to successfully develop and implement our comprehensive restructuring plan within the time granted by the courts would probably lead to the liquidation of all of our assets. Pursuant to the ongoing Creditor Protection Proceedings we are working on developing a comprehensive restructuring plan. In order to successfully emerge from the Creditor Protection Proceedings, our senior management will be required to spend significant amounts of time developing a comprehensive restructuring plan, instead of focusing exclusively on business operations. Although we have engaged consultants to assist 22 Table of Contents with the restructuring process, we cannot be certain that the diversion of management’s attention from business operations will not adversely affect us. In connection with the transformation of our business, we have made, and will continue to make, judgments as to whether we should further reduce, relocate or otherwise change our workforce. Costs incurred in connection with workforce reduction efforts may be higher than estimated. In addition, our workforce reduction efforts may impair our ability to achieve our current or future business objectives. Any further workforce efforts including reductions may not occur on the expected timetable and may result in the recording of additional charges. Further, we have made, and will continue to make, judgments as to whether we should limit investment in, exit, or dispose of certain parts of our business. The Creditor Protection Proceedings and the development of a comprehensive restructuring plan may result in the sale or divestiture of assets, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete any sale or divestiture on acceptable terms or at all. Any decision by management to further limit investment in, or exit or dispose of parts of our business may result in the recording of additional charges. As part of our review of our restructured business, we look at the recoverability of tangible and intangible assets. Future market conditions may indicate these assets are not recoverable based on changes in forecasts of future business performance and the estimated useful life of these assets, and this may trigger further write-downs of these assets which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We also must obtain the approvals of the respective courts and creditors. For example, we must submit our restructuring plan for the Spansion Japan Proceeding by August 2009 and we may not receive the requisite approvals for such plan from the Tokyo District Court. Similarly, we must submit a comprehensive restructuring plan for the Chapter 11 Cases and we may not receive the requisite approvals from the U.S. Bankruptcy Court. Even if we do receive the requisite approvals, a dissenting holder of a claim against us may challenge and ultimately delay the final approval and implementation of a comprehensive restructuring plan. If we are not successful in developing a comprehensive restructuring plan, or if we are successful in developing it but do not receive the requisite approvals, it is unclear whether we would be able to restructure our business and what distributions, if any, holders of claims against us would receive. Should the applicable stay or moratorium period and any subsequent extension thereof not be sufficient to develop and implement a comprehensive restructuring plan or should such plan not be approved by creditors and the courts and, in any such case, we or Spansion Japan lose the protection of such stay or moratorium, substantially all of our debt obligations will become due and payable immediately, or subject to acceleration, creating an immediate liquidity crisis that in all likelihood would lead to the liquidation of all of our assets, in which case it is likely that holders of claims would receive substantially less favorable treatment than they would receive if we were able to emerge as a viable, reorganized entity. Trading in our securities during the pendency of the Creditor Protection Proceedings is highly speculative and poses substantial risks. Our common stock has been delisted from The NASDAQ Stock Market, which makes our common stock significantly less liquid, and may have little or no value. Our securities may have little or no value. Trading prices are very volatile and may bear little or no relationship to the actual recovery, if any, by the holders under any eventual court-approved comprehensive restructuring plan. In such plan, our existing securities, in particular our common stock, may be cancelled and holders may receive no payment or other consideration in return, or they may receive a payment or other consideration that is less than the trading price or the purchase price of such securities. On May 5, 2009, The NASDAQ Stock Market informed us that trading of shares of our common stock has been suspended effective at the open of business on Thursday, May 7, 2009. We expect NASDAQ to file an application on Form 25-NSE with the Securities and Exchange Commission to effect the delisting of our common stock. We have been informed that a market maker will enable our common stock to be traded on the Pink Sheets under the symbol “SPSN.PK.” However, because trading on the Pink Sheets requires a market maker to quote our common stock, trading on the Pink Sheets is not within our control and could be discontinued at any time if no market maker is willing to offer a quote. 23 Table of Contents Consequently, the liquidity of our common stock could be greatly impaired, not only in the number of shares which could be bought and sold, but also through difficulties in obtaining price quotations, reduction in our coverage by security analysts and in the news media and lower prices for our securities than might otherwise be attained. These circumstances could have an adverse effect on the ability of an investor to sell any shares of our common stock as well as on the selling price for such shares. Furthermore, over-the-counter (OTC) transactions involve risks in addition to those associated with transactions on a stock exchange. Many OTC stocks trade less frequently and in smaller volumes than stocks listed on an exchange. Accordingly, OTC-traded shares are less liquid and are likely to be more volatile than exchange-traded stocks. During the pendency of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, our financial results may be volatile and may not reflect historical trends. During the pendency of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, we expect our financial results to continue to be volatile as asset impairments, asset dispositions, restructuring activities, contract terminations and rejections and claims assessments may significantly impact our consolidated financial statements. As a result, our historical financial performance is likely not indicative of our financial performance following the filing of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. Further, we may sell or otherwise dispose of assets and liquidate or settle liabilities, with court approval, for amounts other than those reflected in our historical financial statements. Any such sale or disposition and any comprehensive restructuring plan could materially change the amounts and classifications reported in our historical consolidated financial statements, which do not give effect to any adjustments to the carrying value of assets or amounts of liabilities that might be necessary as a consequence of a comprehensive restructuring plan. U.S. and Japanese laws impair the ability of claimants to take action against us under our existing contracts, including the outstanding notes and related guarantees by us. Subject to limited exceptions, all actions are stayed and ultimate recoveries cannot be determined at this time. Generally, in connection with the Creditor Protection Proceedings, all actions to enforce or otherwise effect payment or repayment of our liabilities preceding the Petition Date for the Debtors and the Commencement Date for Spansion Japan, as well as pending litigation against us, are stayed. The U.S. Bankruptcy Code provides for all actions and proceedings against the U.S. Debtors to be stayed while the Chapter 11 Cases are pending, and the Corporate Reorganization Law of Japan similarly provides for all actions and proceedings against Spansion Japan to be stayed while the Spansion Japan Proceeding is pending. In particular, the rights of the indenture trustees (who represent the holders of debt securities issued by us) to enforce remedies for defaults under our debt securities are subject to the stays, and could be delayed or limited by the restructuring provisions of applicable creditor protection legislation. Moreover, we have not made, and will likely continue not to make, any payments under our various debt securities during the Creditor Protection Proceedings, and holders of our debt securities may not be compensated for any delays in payment of principal, interest and costs, if any, including the fees and disbursements of the trustees. A comprehensive restructuring plan, if successfully developed and accepted by the requisite majorities of each affected class of creditors and approved by the relevant courts, would be binding on all creditors within each affected class, including those that did not vote to accept the proposal. The ultimate recovery to creditors and security holders, if any, will not be determined until a comprehensive restructuring plan is developed and approved. At this time we do not know what values, if any, will be prescribed pursuant to any such plan to the securities held by each of these constituencies, or what form or amounts of distributions, if any, they may receive on account of their interests. 24 Table of Contents If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel at reasonable costs, we may not be able to achieve our business objectives, and our ability to successfully emerge from the Creditor Protection Proceedings may be harmed. We are dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of our senior management and other key employees to execute our current business plans and lead us, particularly during the Creditor Protection Proceedings and throughout the development and implementation of a comprehensive restructuring plan. Competition for certain key positions and specialized technical and sales personnel in the high-technology industry remains strong. Our deteriorating financial performance, along with the Creditor Protection Proceedings and workforce reduction create uncertainty that has led to an increase in unwanted attrition, and additional challenges in attracting and retaining new qualified personnel. We are at risk of losing or being unable to hire talent critical to a successful restructuring and ongoing operation of our business. Our ability to retain and attract critical talent is restricted in part by the Creditor Protection Proceedings that, among other things, limit our ability to implement a retention program or take other measures to attract new hires to the Company or motivate employees to remain with us. Our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate in a timely manner and retain qualified personnel, particularly in key senior management positions. If we are not able to attract, recruit or retain qualified employees (including as a result of headcount and salary reductions), we may not have the personnel necessary to develop and implement a comprehensive restructuring plan, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. Our ability to independently manage our business is restricted during the Creditor Protection Proceedings, and steps or actions in connection therewith may require the approval of the respective courts, the creditors and the U.S. Trustee. Pursuant to the various court orders and statutory regimes to which we are subject during the Creditor Protection Proceedings, some or all of the decisions with respect to our business may require consultation with, review by or ultimate approval of one or all of the respective courts in two jurisdictions, the U.S. general unsecured creditors’ committee and the Floating Rate Noteholders. The lack of independence and the related consulting and reporting requirements are expected to significantly extend the amount of time necessary for us to take necessary actions and conclude and execute on decisions, and may make it impossible for us to take actions that we believe are appropriate and necessary. We cannot assure you that the courts, the U.S. Creditors’ Committee, other creditors or the Floating Rate Noteholders will support our positions on matters presented to the courts in the future, or on any comprehensive restructuring plan, once developed and proposed. Disagreements between us and these various third parties could protract the Creditor Protection Proceedings, negatively impact our ability to operate and delay our emergence from the Creditor Protection Proceedings. Transfers or issuances of our equity, or a debt restructuring, may impair or reduce our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes in the future. Pursuant to U.S. tax rules, a corporation is generally permitted to deduct from taxable income in any year net operating losses (NOLs) carried forward from prior years. We have NOL carryforwards in the U.S. of approximately $657.0 million as of December 28, 2008. Our ability to utilize these NOL carryforwards could be subject to a significant limitation if we were to undergo an “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, during or as a result of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. During the Creditor Protection Proceedings, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court has entered an order that places certain restrictions on trading in our common stock. However, we can provide no assurances that these limitations will prevent an “ownership change” or that our ability to utilize our NOL carryforwards may not be significantly limited as a result of our restructuring. In fiscal 2008, NOL carryfowards in the U.S. of approximately $382.3 million were nonutilizable against future taxable income due to the company under going an “ownership change” for purposes of section 382 of the Internal Review Code of 1986, as amended. This resulted in the reduction of gross deferred tax assets in the amount of $133.8 million. 25 Table of Contents A restructuring of our debt pursuant to the Creditor Protection Proceedings may give rise to cancellation of indebtedness or debt forgiveness (COD), which if it occurs would generally be non-taxable. If the COD is non-taxable, we will be required to reduce our NOL carryforwards and other attributes such as capital loss carryforwards and tax basis in assets, by an amount equal to the non-recognized COD. Therefore, it is possible that, as a result of the successful completion of a comprehensive restructuring plan, we will have a reduction of NOL carryforwards and/or other tax attributes in an amount that cannot be determined at this time and that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Risks Related to our Financial Condition If we cannot generate sufficient operating cash flows and obtain external financing, we may be materially adversely affected. As of December 28, 2008, we held cash and cash equivalents of $116.4 million and marketable securities of approximately $94.0 million. Our marketable securities consist solely of auction rate securities, auctions for which have not occurred since February 2008. Our capital expenditures, together with ongoing operating expenses, have been a substantial drain on our cash flows and have decreased our cash balances. In fiscal 2008, we increased cost cutting activities, including: salary reductions; cutting capital spending; freezing headcount; cutting research and development projects; and reducing administrative expenses. Many of these measures will not materially affect our cash outlays until fiscal 2009 or later. Some cost cutting activities may require initial cost outlays before the cost reductions are realized. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve anticipated expense reductions. If our expense reduction efforts are unsuccessful, our operating results and business may be materially adversely affected. Additional funds from liquidity-generating transactions, debtor-in-possession financing arrangements or other sources of external financing may not be available to us. Such financing would be subject to certain limitations, including court approvals and other requisite approvals by other third parties. Our inability to obtain needed financing or to generate sufficient cash from operations may require us to abandon projects or curtail capital expenditures, or may have an adverse effect on our restructuring process. If we cannot generate sufficient operating cash flows or obtain external financing, we would be materially adversely affected. Financial market conditions may impede access to or increase the cost of financing operations and investments. The volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets has reached unprecedented levels in recent months. These changes in U.S. and global financial and equity markets, including market disruptions and tightening of the credit markets, compounded by us being subject to the Creditor Protection Proceedings, may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or increase the cost of obtaining financing, which would materially adversely affect us. We are party to several debt instruments for which, as a result of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, an event of default has occurred. In connection with our restructuring, we may enter into debt arrangements in the future, each of which may subject us to restrictive covenants which could limit our ability to operate our business. As of December 28, 2008, we had an aggregate principal amount of approximately $1.5 billion in outstanding debt, almost all of which became due and immediately payable upon events of default triggered by the occurrence of recent events related to the Creditor Protection Proceedings. During the Creditor Protection Proceedings and upon emergence from them, we will likely need to incur additional indebtedness through arrangements such as credit agreements or term loans that may include restrictions and covenants that are similar or more restrictive than the covenants in our existing debt instruments. These restrictions and covenants limit, and any future covenants and restrictions likely will limit our ability to respond to market conditions, to make capital investments or to take advantage of business opportunities. Any debt arrangements we enter into would likely require us to make regular interest payments, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 26 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that in the future we will be able to satisfy or comply with the provisions, covenants, financial tests and ratios of our debt instruments, which can be affected by events beyond our control. If we fail to satisfy or comply with such provisions, covenants, financial tests and ratios, or if we disagree with our lenders about whether or not we are in compliance, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain waivers for any future failures to comply with our financial covenants or any other terms of the debt instruments. We also may not be able to obtain amendments which will prevent a failure to comply in the future. A breach of any of the provisions, covenants, financial tests or ratios under our debt instruments could result in a default under the applicable agreement, which in turn could trigger cross-defaults under other debt instruments, any of which would materially adversely affect us. Our investments in marketable debt securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. As of December 28, 2008, our marketable securities totaled approximately $94.0 million and consisted solely of AAA/Aaa securities with auction reset features (auction rate securities or ARS) whose underlying assets are student loans and are substantially backed by the U.S. government Federal Family Education Loan Program. During 2008, we experienced failed auctions of our ARS and we cannot assure you that any future auctions would be successful. In November 2008, we accepted an offer to participate in an auction rate securities settlement from UBS Bank USA (UBS), providing us the right, but not the obligation, to sell to UBS up to 100 percent of our ARS at par, commencing June 30, 2010. Our right to sell the ARS to UBS commencing June 30, 2010 through July 2, 2012 represents a put option for a payment equal to the par value of the ARS. Upon acceptance of the offer with UBS, we elected to measure the put option under the fair value option of SFAS No. 159 and recorded $27.5 million as the fair value of the put option asset as of December 28, 2008 and transferred our ARS from available-for-sale to trading investment securities as long term assets. The transfer to trading securities reflects management’s intent to exercise our put option during the period June 30, 2010 to July 3, 2012. In the third and fourth quarters of fiscal year 2008, we recognized other-than-temporary impairment charges of approximately $27.9 million, which were largely offset by the recording of the put option. To the extent market conditions result in changes in the fair value of our ARS, those conditions will also cause the fair value of our put option to change by a comparable offsetting amount. The put option is subject to a number of risks. Given the substantial dislocation in the financial markets and among financial services companies, we cannot assure you that UBS will ultimately have the ability to repurchase our ARS at par, or at any other price during the put period described above. We will be required to periodically assess the economic ability of UBS to meet that obligation in assessing the fair value of the rights. Moreover, if we choose to not exercise or UBS is unable to honor the put option, our ability to liquidate our investments in the near term may be limited, and our ability to fully recover the carrying value of our investments may be limited or non-existent. If issuers of these securities are unable to successfully close future auctions or their credit ratings deteriorate, we may in the future be required to record further impairment charges on these investments. It could take until the final maturity of the underlying notes (up to 39 years) to realize our investments’ recorded value. We can provide no assurance as to when these investments will again become liquid or as to whether we may ultimately have to recognize additional impairment charges in our results of operations with respect to these investments. Delays in liquidating these securities in the future could have a material adverse effect on us. For more information on the accounting for ARS, please see “Fair Value of Marketable Securities” section in Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and also Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report. On December 29, 2008, we entered into a Credit Line Agreement with UBS that provides up with an aggregate amount of $85 million in the form of an uncommitted revolving line of credit, which is secured by the auction rate securities we hold (the UBS Credit Line). The UBS Credit Line also provides, among other things, that (i) UBS may demand full or partial payment of the credit line at its sole discretion and without cause at any 27 Table of Contents time; and (ii) UBS may at any time in its sole discretion terminate and cancel the credit line; provided, however, that UBS is required to provide us alternative financing on substantially similar terms, unless the demand right was exercised as a result of certain specified events, of which the Creditor Protection Proceedings is one, or the customer relationship between UBS and us is terminated for cause by UBS. On December 29, 2008, we borrowed approximately $74.8 million under the UBS Credit Line. The Creditor Protection Proceedings constituted an event of default under the UBS Credit Line. Sustained decrease in our market capitalization may be an indicator, under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, of a potential future impairment of long lived tangible and intangible assets including goodwill which could result in significant charges to earnings. During fiscal 2008, we experienced a sustained, significant decline in our stock price which resulted in our market capitalization falling below the recorded value of our consolidated net assets. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we were required to record an impairment charge because changes in circumstances or events (of which one of the several indicators of impairment that was considered jointly is a significant and other than temporary decrease in the our market capitalization) indicated that the carrying values of such assets exceeded their fair value and were not recoverable. This impairment of our net assets resulted in a charge to earnings. A further decline in our market capitalization could result in additional impairment charges, which could further materially and adversely affect our financial results. Risks Related to our Business The demand for our products depends in large part on continued growth in the industries into which they are sold. A decline in the markets served by any of these industries, or a decline in demand for Flash memory products in these industries, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Sales of our Flash memory products are dependent upon consumer demand for mobile phones, consumer electronics such as set top boxes and DVD players, automotive electronics, and industrial electronics such as networking equipment, personal computers and personal computer peripheral equipment such as printers and gaming systems. Sales of our products are also dependent upon the inclusion of increasing amounts of Flash memory content in some of these products. In fiscal 2008, sales of our products were divided between wireless applications, such as mobile phones, and the combination of consumer and industrial applications such as gaming, set top boxes, DVD players, automotive and industrial electronics. For fiscal 2008, sales for wireless applications and consumer and industrial applications accounted for approximately 50 percent of our total net sales each, as compared to 54 percent and 45 percent, respectively for fiscal 2007, and 60 percent and 40 percent, respectively for fiscal 2006 This represented a shift from fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 when sales for wireless applications accounted for a majority of our sales. As a result of the credit market crisis, including uncertainties with respect to financial institutions and global capital markets, increases in energy costs and other macroeconomic challenges, consumer and corporate spending may be modified, delayed or reduced. Our sales in fiscal 2008 were more heavily weighted in a category of products where the market may be declining. If demand for mobile phones, other consumer products or industrial products in the integrated category of the Flash memory market decline, or if our sales are below industry analysts’ expectations, our business could be materially adversely affected. Also, if the functionality of successive generations of such products does not require increasing Flash memory density or if such products no longer require Flash memory due to alternative technologies or otherwise, our operating results would be materially adversely affected. Our business has been characterized by an average selling price that declines over time, which can negatively affect our results of operations. As a semiconductor manufacturing company, our financial results are primarily dependent upon the difference between our average selling price per product and our average costs per product. Generally, we 28 Table of Contents endeavor to maintain or increase our average selling price while lowering our average costs, by improving our product mix, and selling more units. Historically, the selling prices of our products has decreased during the products’ lives, and we expect this trend to continue. When our selling prices decline, our net sales and gross margins also decline unless we are able to compensate by selling more units thereby reducing our manufacturing costs per product or introducing and selling new, higher margin products with higher densities and/or advanced features. If the average selling price for our products continues to decline, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. During downturns, periods of extremely intense competition, or the presence of oversupply in the industry, the selling prices for our products has declined at a high rate over relatively short time periods as compared to historical rates of decline. We are unable to predict selling prices for any future periods and may experience unanticipated, sharp declines in selling prices for our products. When such pricing declines occur, we may not be able to mitigate the effects by selling more or higher margin units, or by reducing our manufacturing costs. In such circumstances, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. The Flash memory market is highly cyclical and has experienced severe downturns that have materially adversely affected, and may in the future materially adversely affect, our business. The Flash memory market is highly cyclical and is currently experiencing, and in the past has experienced severe downturns, generally as a result of wide fluctuations in supply and demand, constant and rapid technological change, continuous new product introductions and price erosion. Our financial performance has been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by these downturns. We have incurred substantial losses in past downturns, and as a result of the current downturn, due principally to: • substantial declines in selling prices, particularly due to competitive pressures and an imbalance in product supply and demand; • a decline in demand for end-user products that incorporate our products; and • lower than expected demand in the distribution channels such as mobile phone OEMs. Our historical financial information does not necessarily indicate what our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows will be in the future. If our net sales decline in the future, or if these or other similar conditions continue or occur again in the future, we would likely be materially adversely affected. Our forecasts of customer demand for our products may be inaccurate, which could result in excess inventory and cause us to record write-downs that would adversely affect our gross margins. We rely on our ability to forecast inventory and production mix in order to meet customer demand and produce requisite amounts of our products in order to fill current orders and future orders. Customer demand for our products may be difficult to predict because customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason or they may cancel or defer product orders. The volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets may make it more difficult for us to forecast demand because our customers may be increasingly focused on cash preservation and tighter inventory management. Finally, the uncertainty caused by the Creditor Protection Proceedings may also impact customer demand. To forecast demand and value inventory, management considers, among other factors, the inventory on hand, historical customer demand data, backlog data, competitiveness of product offerings, market conditions and product life cycles. Historically, we have generally used a six-month demand forecast in assessing the salability of inventory on hand and did not value inventory in excess of six months of forecasted demand. Beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2008, as part of a strategy to efficiently manage our new production capacity and to maintain strategic inventory levels of certain products, we have built and valued certain inventory to meet estimated demand as much as twelve months into the future. 29 Table of Contents If we anticipate future demand or market conditions to be less favorable than our previous projections, additional inventory write-downs may be required and would be reflected in cost of sales in the period the write-down is made. This would have a negative impact on our gross margin in that period. While we believe our understanding of the end markets we serve provides us with the ability to make reliable forecasts, we may be unable to forecast accurately. If we inaccurately forecast customer demand, it could result in excess or obsolete inventory that would reduce our profit margins, which would materially adversely affect us. Any future business combinations, divestitures, acquisitions or mergers expose us to risks, including the risk that we may not be able to successfully integrate these businesses or achieve expected operating synergies. During the Creditor Protection Proceedings we will, and upon emergence from them we may periodically, consider strategic transactions. We may evaluate acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, alliances or co-production programs as opportunities arise and we may be engaged in varying levels of negotiations with third parties at any time. We may not be able to effect transactions and if we enter into transactions, we also may not realize the benefits we anticipate. Moreover, the integration of companies that have previously been operated separately involves a number of risks. Consummating any acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, alliances or co-production programs could result in the incurrence of additional transaction-related expenses, as well as unforeseen contingent liabilities, which could materially adversely affect us. We have lost rights to key intellectual property arrangements because we are no longer a beneficiary of AMD’s patent cross-license agreements and other licenses, which creates a greatly increased risk of patent or other intellectual property infringement claims against us. As a subsidiary of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD) until our initial public offering in December 2005, we were the beneficiary of AMD’s intellectual property arrangements with third parties, including patent cross-license agreements with other major semiconductor companies such as Intel, Motorola and IBM, and licenses from third parties for technology incorporated in our products and software used to operate our business. We are no longer a subsidiary of AMD. As a result, we may be subject to claims that we are infringing intellectual property rights of third parties through the manufacture and sale of our products and the operation of our business. Therefore, absent negotiating our own license agreements with the third parties who own such intellectual property, we will be vulnerable to claims by such parties that our products or operations infringe such parties’ patents or other intellectual property rights. We may attempt to negotiate our own agreements and arrangements with third parties for intellectual property and technology that are important to our business, including the intellectual property that we previously had access to through our relationship with AMD. We may also attempt to acquire new patents as our success in negotiating patent cross-license agreements with other industry participants will depend in large part upon the strength of our patent portfolio relative to that of the third party with which we are negotiating. In many cases, third parties also have rights to utilize any patents that have been issued to us or acquired by us between the dates of our reorganization in 2003 and our initial public offering in 2005 or, in some cases, between the dates of our reorganization in 2003 and the conversion of the Class D common stock in 2006. Our negotiating position may therefore be impaired, because the other party will already be entitled to utilize a large number of our patents, while we will no longer have the right to utilize that party’s patents. As a result, we may be unable to obtain access to the other party’s patent portfolio on favorable terms or at all. Similarly, with respect to licenses from third parties for technology incorporated in our products or software used to operate our business, we may not be able to negotiate prices with these third parties on terms as favorable to us as those previously available to us because we are no longer able to take advantage of AMD’s size and purchasing power. These parties, and other third parties with whom AMD had no prior intellectual property arrangement, may file lawsuits against us seeking damages (potentially including treble damages) or an injunction against the sale of our products that incorporate allegedly infringed intellectual property or against the operation of our business as presently conducted. Such litigation could be extremely expensive and time consuming. We cannot assure you that such 30 Table of Contents litigation would be avoided or successfully concluded. The award of damages, including material royalty payments, or the entry of an injunction against the manufacture or sale of some or all of our products, would have a material adverse effect on us. A significant market shift to NAND architecture would materially adversely affect us. Flash memory products are generally based on either NOR or NAND architecture. To date, our Flash memory products have been based on NOR architecture which are typically produced at a higher cost-per-bit than NAND-based products. We have developed our MirrorBit ORNAND and MirrorBit Eclipse architectures to address certain portions of the integrated category of the Flash memory market served by NAND-based products, but we cannot be certain that our MirrorBit ORNAND- or Eclipse-based products will satisfactorily address those market needs. In each of the last five years from 2004 to 2008, industry sales of NAND-based Flash memory products increased as a percentage of total Flash memory sales compared to sales of NOR-based Flash memory products, resulting in NAND vendors in aggregate gaining a greater share of the overall Flash memory market and NOR vendors in aggregate losing overall market share. In 2008, according to iSuppli, total sales for the Flash memory market reached approximately $17.9 billion, of which approximately 34 percent was classified as sales of NOR-based Flash memory products and approximately 66 percent was classified as sales of NAND-based Flash memory products. iSuppli estimates that sales of NAND-based Flash memory products declined by approximately 15 percent from 2007 to 2008 and will grow at a 5 percent compound annual growth rate from 2008 to 2013, while sales of NOR-based Flash memory products declined by approximately 21 percent from 2007 to 2008 and will decline by approximately 12 percent compound annual rate from 2008 to 2013. We expect the Flash memory market trend of decreasing market share for NOR-based Flash memory products relative to NAND-based Flash memory products to continue in the foreseeable future. Moreover, the removable storage category of the Flash memory market, which is predominantly served by floating gate NAND vendors, is expected to constitute a significant portion of the Flash memory market for the foreseeable future. As mobile phones and other consumer electronics become more advanced, they will require higher density Flash memory to meet the increased data storage requirements associated with music downloads, photos and videos. Because storage requirements will increase to accommodate data-intensive applications, OEMs may increasingly choose higher density floating gate NAND-based Flash memory products over MirrorBit NOR-, ORNAND- or Eclipse-based Flash memory products for their applications. If this occurs and OEMs continue to prefer floating gate NAND-based products over those of MirrorBit NOR-, ORNAND—or Eclipse-based products for their applications, we may be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, some of our competitors are able to manufacture floating gate NAND-based Flash memory products on 300-millimeter wafers produced in much larger capacity fabs than our SP1 fab or the wafer manufacturing fabs of our third party wafer foundry. In addition, some of our competitors may choose to utilize more advanced manufacturing process technologies than we may have available to offer products competitive to ours at a lower cost. If floating gate NAND vendors continue to increase their share of the Flash memory market, our market share may decrease, which would materially adversely affect us. In addition, even if products based on NAND architecture are unsuccessful in displacing products based on NOR architecture, the average selling price for our products may be adversely affected by a significant decline in the price for NAND-based products. Such a decline may result in downward price pressure in the overall Flash memory market affecting the price we can obtain for our NOR-based products, which would adversely affect us. We believe such downward pricing pressure was a factor in the significant declines in the selling prices of our products in 2007 and 2008. If the prices for NAND products do not improve, or continue to decline, we may be materially adversely affected. 31 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that our substantial investments in research and development will lead to timely improvements in technology or that we will have sufficient resources to invest in the level of research and development that is required to remain competitive. In order to compete, we are required to make substantial investments in research and development for design, process technologies and production in an effort to design and manufacture advanced Flash memory products. For example, in fiscal 2008 and fiscal years 2007 and 2006, our research and development expenses were approximately $ 431.8 million, $436.8 million and $342.0 million, respectively, or approximately 19, 17 and 13 percent, respectively, of our net sales. Currently, we are developing new non-volatile memory process technologies, including 45-nanometer process technologies. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required for us to remain competitive, which could materially adversely affect us. Further, we cannot assure you that our investments in research and development will result in increased sales or competitive advantage, which could adversely affect our operating results. If we fail to successfully develop, introduce and commercialize new products and technologies or to accelerate our product development cycle, we may be materially adversely affected. Our success depends to a significant extent on the development, qualification, production, introduction and acceptance of new product designs and improvements that provide value to Flash memory customers. Our ability to develop and qualify new products and related technologies to meet evolving industry requirements at prices acceptable to our customers and on a timely basis affects our competitiveness in our target markets. If we are delayed in developing or qualifying new products or technologies, we could be materially adversely affected. Competitors may introduce new memory or other technologies that may make our Flash memory products uncompetitive or obsolete. Our competitors are working on a number of new technologies, including FRAM, MRAM, polymer, charge trapping and phase-change based memory technologies. One of our competitors began shipping products based on phase-change based memory technology in 2008. If such products are successfully developed and commercialized as a viable alternative to MirrorBit or floating gate Flash memory, these other products could pose a competitive threat to existing Flash memory companies, including us. In addition, some of Saifun’s licensees and customers are our competitors or work with our competitors and have licensed Flash memory intellectual property associated with charge trapping technology from Saifun. Use of this charge trapping intellectual property or use of independently developed charge trapping Flash memory technology by our competitors, if successfully developed and commercialized, may allow these competitors to develop Flash memory technology that may compete with our proprietary MirrorBit technology. If we fail to successfully develop products based on our new MirrorBit ORNAND, MirrorBit Eclipse or MirrorBit NAND2 architectures, or if there is a lack of market acceptance of these products, our future operating results would be materially adversely affected. We are attempting to position ourselves to address the increasing demand for data optimized Flash memory by offering higher density, lower cost and more versatile products based on our new MirrorBit ORNAND, MirrorBit Eclipse and MirrorBit NAND2 architectures. The success of these architectures requires that we timely and cost effectively develop, manufacture and market products based on these architectures that are competitive with floating gate NAND-based Flash memory solutions. While we have made some progress on developing and commercializing products based on these architectures, we may not be able to continue to do so in accordance with our product development plans or at a rate and cost structure required for us to remain competitive. If we fail to continue to develop and commercialize products based on these architectures on a timely basis at a competitive cost structure, our future operating results would be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, if market acceptance of products based on our MirrorBit architectures occurs at a slower rate than we anticipate, our ability to compete will be reduced, and we would be materially adversely affected. If we do not achieve market acceptance of these architectures or subsequent MirrorBit products, our future operating results would be materially adversely affected. 32 Table of Contents If we fail to successfully develop new applications and markets for our products our future operating results would be materially adversely affected. We are developing new applications and opportunities for our products beyond our traditional customer base and in some cases plan to deploy our Flash memory solutions beyond current Flash memory markets. We expect these new applications to grow future net sales, future margin or a combination of both. However, some of these opportunities require that we are successful in creating, marketing, gaining customer acceptance of and deploying these new system architectures into a customer base where we do not have a historic business relationship and where our solution is required to replace established and proven solutions. In some cases our solutions rely on third parties to contribute a significant and necessary component of the solution without which the solution is nonviable. If we are unsuccessful in our attempts to bring new products to market, experience significant delays in generating sales, fail to establish the value of this solution or face competition from third parties or incumbent suppliers that result in lower margins than expected, then our future operating results would be materially adversely affected. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks that could materially adversely affect us. We have in the past and plan in the future to obtain foundry, subcontractor and other arrangements with third parties to meet demand. Foundry services suppliers, from which we may obtain foundry services in the future, include Fujitsu Microelectronics Limited (as a result of the sale of our JV1/JV2 manufacturing facilities in April 2007) and Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation from which we may obtain foundry services in the future. We also use independent contractors to perform some of the assembly, testing and packaging of our products. Third-party manufacturers are often under no obligation to provide us with any specified minimum quantity of product. We depend on these manufacturers to allocate to us a portion of their manufacturing capacity sufficient to meet our needs, to produce products of acceptable quality and at acceptable manufacturing yields and to deliver those products to us on a timely basis at acceptable prices. We also rely on these manufacturers to invest capital into their facilities to meet our needs. Given the Creditor Protection Proceedings and the current volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets worldwide, we cannot assure you that they will make the investments in their facilities previously contemplated. We cannot assure you that these manufacturers will be able to meet our near-term or long-term manufacturing requirements and may not be able to attain qualification from our customers. In addition, any significant change in the payment terms we have with our key suppliers could adversely affect us. These manufacturers also make products for other companies, including certain of our competitors, and/or for themselves and could choose to prioritize capacity for themselves or other customers beyond any minimum guaranteed amounts, reduce deliveries to us or, in the absence of price guarantees, increase the prices they charge us on short notice, such that we may not be able to pass cost increases on to our customers. The likelihood of this occurring may be greater as a result of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. Because it could take several quarters or more to establish a relationship with a new manufacturing partner, we may be unable to secure an alternative supply for specific products in a short timeframe or at all at an acceptable cost to satisfy our production requirements. In addition, we may be required to incur additional development, manufacturing and other costs to establish alternative sources of supply. Other risks associated with our increased dependence on third-party manufacturers include: their ability to adapt to our proprietary technology, reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields and cost, lack of capacity in periods of excess demand, misappropriation of our intellectual property, reduced ability to manage inventory and parts and risks associated with operating in foreign countries. If we are unable to secure sufficient or reliable suppliers of wafers or obtain the necessary assembling, testing and packaging services, our ability to meet customer demand for our products may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Industry overcapacity could require us to take actions which could have a material adverse effect on us. Semiconductor companies with their own manufacturing facilities and specialist semiconductor foundries, which are subcontractors that manufacture semiconductors designed by others, have added significant capacity in 33 Table of Contents recent years. In 2008, the significant excess capacity led to oversupply and a downturn in the memory industry. The contraction of the worldwide economy, especially in the fourth quarter of 2008, further compounded industry over capacity. Continuing manufacturing overcapacity in the industry is having a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, fluctuations in the growth rate of industry capacity relative to the growth rate in demand for Flash memory products can contribute to cyclicality in the Flash memory market, which may in the future negatively impact our selling prices and materially adversely affect us. It is difficult to predict future growth or decline in the markets we serve, making it very difficult to estimate requirements for production capacity. If our target markets do not grow as we anticipate, we may under-utilize our manufacturing capacity. This may result in write-downs or write-offs of inventories and losses on products the demand for which is lower than we anticipate. In addition, during periods of industry overcapacity, customers do not generally order products as far in advance of the scheduled shipment date as they do during periods when our industry is operating closer to capacity, which can exacerbate the difficulty in forecasting capacity requirements. Many of our costs are fixed. Additionally, pursuant to some of our subcontractor and foundry arrangements with third parties we may incur and pay penalties, according to which we have agreed to pay for a certain amount of product even if we do not accept delivery of all of such amount. Accordingly, during periods in which we under-utilize our manufacturing capacity as a result of reduced demand for some of our products, our costs cannot be reduced in proportion to the reduced net sales for such periods. When this occurs, our operating results are materially adversely affected. Our customers’ ability to change booked orders may lead to excess inventory. Because our manufacturing processes require long lead times, we use indicators such as booking rates in conjunction with other business metrics, to schedule production in our fabrication facilities. Consequently, when customers change orders booked with us, our planned manufacturing capacity may be greater or less than actual demand, resulting in less than optimal inventory levels. When this occurs, we adjust our production levels but such adjustments may not prevent our production of excess inventory in environments when bookings are strong. As a result, our business may be materially adversely affected. Intense competition in the Flash memory market could materially adversely affect us. Our principal NOR Flash memory competitors are Numonyx B.V. and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Additional significant NOR Flash memory competitors include Silicon Storage Technology, Inc., Macronix International Co., Ltd., Toshiba Corporation and Sharp Electronics Corp. We increasingly compete with NAND Flash memory manufacturers where NAND Flash memory has the ability to replace NOR Flash memory in customer applications and as we develop data storage solutions based on our MirrorBit ORNAND, MirrorBit Eclipse and MirrorBit NAND2 architectures for the integrated category and select portions of the removable category of the Flash memory market. Our principal NAND Flash memory competitors include Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd, Toshiba Corporation, Hynix Semiconductor Inc. and Numonyx. In the future our principal NAND Flash memory competitors may include Intel Corporation, Micron Technology, Inc., IM Flash Technology LLC, the joint venture between Intel and Micron Technology, Inc. and SanDisk Corporation. The Flash memory market is characterized by intense competition. The basis of competition is cost, selling price, performance, quality, customer relationships and ability to provide value-added solutions. In particular, in the past, our competitors have aggressively priced their products, which resulted in a decreased selling prices for our products in the first half of fiscal 2007 and adversely impacted our results of operations. Some of our competitors, including Samsung, Toshiba and Sharp, are more diversified than we are and may be able to sustain lower operating margins in their Flash memory business based on the profitability of their other, non-Flash 34 Table of Contents memory businesses. In addition, capital investments by competitors have resulted in substantial industry manufacturing capacity, which may further contribute to a competitive pricing environment. Some of our competitors are able to manufacture floating gate NAND-based Flash memory products on 300-millimeter wafers produced in much larger capacity fabs than we may have access to or may choose to utilize more advanced manufacturing process technologies than we will have to offer products competitive to ours at a lower cost. Moreover, products based on our MirrorBit ORNAND-, MirrorBit Quad-, MirrorBit Eclipse- and MirrorBit NAND2-based architectures may not have the price, performance, quality and other features necessary to compete successfully for these applications. We expect competition in the market for Flash memory devices to intensify as existing manufacturers introduce new products, new manufacturers enter the market, industry-wide production capacity increases and competitors aggressively price their Flash memory products to increase market share. The competition we face may also intensify, particularly in light of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, if our competitors, who may have greater financial resources than us, increase their focus on the Flash memory products, or segments of the Flash memory markets, that generate a significant portion of our net sales. Competition also may increase if NOR memory vendors merge, if NAND memory vendors acquire NOR businesses or other NAND businesses, or if our competitors otherwise consolidate their operations. Furthermore, we face increasing competition from NAND Flash memory vendors in some portions of the integrated Flash memory market. To compete successfully, we must decrease our manufacturing costs and develop, introduce and sell products at competitive prices that meet the increasing demand for greater Flash memory content in mobile phones, consumer electronics, automotive and other applications. If we are unable to compete effectively, we could be materially adversely affected. Unless we maintain manufacturing efficiency, we may not become profitable and our future profitability could be materially adversely affected. The Flash memory industry is characterized by rapid technological changes. For example, new manufacturing process technologies using smaller feature sizes and offering better performance characteristics are generally introduced every one to two years. The introduction of new manufacturing process technologies allows us to increase the functionality of our products while at the same time optimizing performance parameters, decreasing power consumption and/or increasing storage capacity. In addition, the reduction of feature sizes enables us to produce smaller chips offering the same functionality and thereby considerably reduces the costs per bit. In order to remain competitive, it is essential that we secure the capabilities to develop and qualify new manufacturing process technologies. For example, our leading Flash memory products must be manufactured at 65-nanometer and more advanced process technologies and on 300-millimeter wafers. If we are delayed in transitioning to these technologies and other future technologies, we could be materially adversely affected. As a result of the Creditor Protection Proceedings and in conjunction with developing a plan of reorganization, we may be forced to shut down or abandon current plans for our manufacturing facilities. These actions would likely exacerbate this risk. Manufacturing our products involves highly complex processes that require advanced equipment. Our manufacturing efficiency is an important factor in our profitability, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain or increase our manufacturing efficiency to the same extent as our competitors. For example, we continuously modify our manufacturing processes in an effort to improve yields and product performance and decrease costs. We are continuing to transition products to 65-nanometer process technology for the manufacture of some of our products. During periods when we are implementing new process technologies, manufacturing facilities may not be fully productive. We may fail to achieve acceptable yields or may experience product delivery delays as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, delays in the development of new process technologies, changes in our process technologies, upgrades or expansion of existing facilities, impurities or 35 Table of Contents other difficulties in the manufacturing process. Any of these occurrences could adversely impact our relationships with customers, cause harm to our reputation in the marketplace, cause customers to move future business to our competitors or cause us to make financial concessions to our customers. Improving our manufacturing efficiency in future periods is dependent on our ability to: • develop advanced process technologies and advanced products that utilize those technologies; • successfully transition to 65-nanometer and more advanced process technologies; • continue to reduce test times; • ramp product and process technology improvements rapidly and effectively to commercial volumes across our facilities; • achieve acceptable levels of manufacturing wafer output and yields, which may decrease as we implement more advanced technologies; and • maintain our quality controls and rely upon the quality and process controls of our suppliers. If we cannot adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property in the United States and abroad, through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and other measures, we may lose a competitive advantage and incur significant expenses. We rely on a combination of protections provided by contracts, including confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements, copyrights, patents, trademarks and common law rights, such as trade secrets, to protect our intellectual property. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property from third-party infringement or from misappropriation in the United States and abroad. Any patent owned or licensed by us or issued to us could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or rights granted under these patents or licenses may not provide a competitive advantage to us. Furthermore, patent applications that we file may not result in issuance of a patent or, if a patent is issued, the patent may not be issued in a form that is advantageous to us. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, others may independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around our patents and other intellectual property rights. In addition, it is difficult to monitor compliance with, and enforce, our intellectual property on a worldwide basis in a cost-effective manner. Foreign laws may provide less intellectual property protection than afforded in the United States. If we cannot adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property rights in the United States and abroad, we may be materially adversely affected. We are party to intellectual property litigation and may become party to other intellectual property claims or litigation that could cause us to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages or prohibit us from selling our products. We provide indemnities relating to non-infringement of patents and other intellectual property indemnities to certain of our customers in connection with the delivery, design, manufacture and sale of our products. From time to time, we may be notified, or third parties may bring actions against us based on allegations, that we are infringing the intellectual property rights of others. If any such claims are asserted against us, we may seek to obtain a license under the third party’s intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain all of the necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. In the event that we cannot obtain a license, these parties may file lawsuits against us seeking damages (potentially including treble damages) or an injunction against the sale of our products that incorporate allegedly infringed intellectual property or against the operation of our business as presently conducted, which could result in our having to stop the sale of some of our products, increase the costs of selling some of our products, or cause damage to our reputation. The award of damages, including material royalty payments, or the entry of an injunction against the manufacture and sale of some or all of our products, would have a material adverse effect on us. We could decide, in the alternative, to redesign our products or to resort to litigation to challenge or defend such claims, either of which could be expensive and time-consuming and may have a material adverse effect on us. 36 Table of Contents For example, Tessera, Inc., LSI Corporation, Agere Systems, Inc. and Fast Memory Erase LLC filed lawsuits against us alleging that we have infringed certain of their respective patents. Tessera, LSI and Agere have sought to enjoin such alleged infringements, to recover an unspecified amount of damages, and to bar our importation and sale of allegedly infringing products. In addition, Fujitsu has informed us that Texas Instruments has asserted that a number of our products infringe some of Texas Instruments’ patents. Fujitsu has also informed us that it expects us to defend and indemnify Fujitsu against Texas Instruments’ claims. Fujitsu has provided us with formal notice that they believe we have a duty to defend or indemnify Fujitsu under the terms of our distribution agreement. Since then, we and Fujitsu have been discussing the issues raised by this notice, and if Fujitsu were to terminate our distribution agreement, we could be materially adversely affected. Defending these alleged infringement claims and similar claims could be extremely expensive and time-consuming and an award of damages or an injunction could have a material adverse effect on us. We cannot assure you that litigation related to the intellectual property rights of ours or others can be avoided or will be successfully concluded. If essential equipment or adequate supplies of satisfactory materials are not available to manufacture our products, we could be materially adversely affected. Our manufacturing operations depend upon obtaining deliveries of equipment and adequate supplies of materials on a timely basis. We purchase equipment and materials from a number of suppliers. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supply to us or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Because the equipment that we purchase is complex, it is difficult for us to substitute one supplier for another or one piece of equipment for another. Some raw materials we use in the manufacture of our products are available from a limited number of suppliers or only from a limited number of suppliers in a particular region. In addition, we purchase raw materials such as gold which prices on the world markets have fluctuated significant during recent periods. Our manufacturing operations also depend upon the quality and usability of the materials we use in our products, including raw materials and wafers we receive from our suppliers. If the materials we receive from our suppliers do not meet our manufacturing requirements or product specifications, are not obtained in a timely manner or if there are significant increases in costs of materials, we may be materially adversely affected. We also rely on purchasing commercial memory die such as DRAMs from third-party suppliers to incorporate these die into multi-chip package, or MCP, products. The availability of these third-party purchased commercial die is subject to market availability, and the process technology roadmaps and manufacturing capacities of our vendors. In addition, some of our major suppliers, including Samsung, are also our competitors. Interruption of supply from a competitor that is a supplier or otherwise or increased demand in the industry could cause shortages and price increases in various essential materials. If we are unable to procure these materials, or if the materials we receive from our suppliers do not meet our production requirements or product specifications, we may have to reduce our manufacturing operations or our manufacturing yields may be adversely affected. Such a reduction and yield issues have in the past and could in the future have a material adverse effect on us. Costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on us. One or more of our products may be found to be defective after the product has been shipped to customers in volume. The cost of product replacements or product returns may be substantial, and our reputation with our customers would be damaged. In addition, we could incur substantial costs to implement modifications to fix defects. Any of these problems could materially adversely affect us. Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect us. As a result of our foreign operations, we have sales, expenses, assets and liabilities that are denominated in Japanese yen and other foreign currencies. For example: • some of our manufacturing costs are denominated in Japanese yen, Chinese renminbi, and other foreign currencies such as the Thai baht and Malaysian ringgit; 37 Table of Contents • sales of our products to Fujitsu are denominated in both US dollars and Japanese yen; and • some fixed asset purchases are denominated in Japanese yen and European Union euros. Consequently, movements in exchange rates could cause our net sales and expenses to fluctuate, affecting our profitability and cash flows. Worldwide economic and political conditions may adversely affect demand for our products. We operate in more than ten countries and we derive a majority of our net sales outside the United States. Our business depends on the overall worldwide economic conditions and the economic and business conditions within our customers’ industries. Our business may also be affected by economic factors that are beyond our control, such as downturns in economic activity in a specific country or region. A further weakening of the worldwide economy or the economy of individual countries or the demand for our customers’ products may cause a greater decrease in demand for our products, which could materially adversely affect us. Our consolidated financial results could also be significantly and adversely affected by geopolitical concerns and world events, such as wars and terrorist attacks. Our net sales and financial results have been and could be negatively affected to the extent geopolitical concerns continue and similar events occur or are anticipated to occur. In particular, consequences of military action in the Middle East have in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect demand for our products and our relationship with various third parties with which we collaborate. In addition, terrorist attacks may negatively affect our operations, directly or indirectly, and such attacks or related armed conflicts may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. Furthermore, these attacks may make travel and the transportation of our products more difficult and more expensive, which could materially adversely affect us. The United States has been and may continue to be involved in armed conflicts that could have a further impact on our sales and our supply chain. Political and economic instability in some regions of the world may also result and could negatively impact our business. The consequences of armed conflicts are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have a material adverse effect on us. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. economy and worldwide financial markets. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on us. Our operations in foreign countries are subject to political and economic risks, which could have a material adverse effect on us. The majority of our wafer fabrication capacity is located in Japan, which is subject to the Spansion Japan Proceeding, and nearly all final test and assembly of our products is performed at our facilities in China, Malaysia and Thailand and by third parties in Taiwan and Japan. In addition, we have international sales operations and, as part of our business strategy, we are continuing to seek to expand our product sales in high growth markets. The political and economic risks associated with our sales to, and operations in, foreign countries include: • expropriation; • changes in political or economic conditions; • changes in tax laws, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • difficulties in protecting our intellectual property; • difficulties in achieving headcount reductions; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • restrictions on transfers of funds and other assets of our subsidiaries between jurisdictions; 38 Table of Contents • changes in freight and interest rates; • disruption in air transportation between the United States and our overseas facilities; and • loss or modification of exemptions for taxes and tariffs. We manufacture wafers in our JV3 and SP1 fabrication facilities in Japan. If we are required for any reason to transfer wafer production from our Japan facilities to our Fab 25 facility in Austin, Texas or to third party foundries, we may not be able to make this transition in a timely manner or find third-party manufacturers with sufficient capacity to produce wafers of acceptable quality at acceptable manufacturing yields and prices or to deliver wafers in a timely manner. If we are not able to successfully transition this manufacturing to other facilities, we may be materially adversely affected. In addition, our sales in Japan, and certain other locations throughout the world, are made through Spansion Japan. If Spansion Japan no longer manages these sales for us, we would be required to develop alternative methods of distributing and selling our products. To sell our products in Japan, we would have to establish a separate sales force and administrative support in Japan and continue to rely on Fujitsu as a distributor, or rely on another distributor. If we are unsuccessful in establishing alternative sales channels, our sales in Japan may decline and we may be materially adversely affected. Our subsidiary, Saifun, conducts business in Israel, which is affected and surrounded by unstable political, economic and military conditions. We cannot predict the effect of continued or increased violence in Lebanon or Gaza, or the effect of military action elsewhere in the Middle East. Continued armed conflicts or political instability in the region would harm business conditions and could adversely affect the combined company’s results of operations. Furthermore, several countries continue to restrict or ban business with Israel and Israeli companies. These restrictive laws and policies may limit the combined company’s ability to make sales in those countries, and, as a global company, may limit our own ability to efficiently administer our worldwide resources. Any conflict or uncertainty in the countries in which we operate, including public health or safety concerns, natural disasters or general economic factors, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any of the above risks, should they occur, could have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws that could result in liabilities. Our properties and many aspects of our business operations are subject to various domestic and international environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to materials used in our products and manufacturing processes; chemical use and handling; waste minimization; discharge of pollutants into the environment; the treatment, transport, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes; and remediation of contamination. Certain of these laws and regulations require us to obtain permits for our operations, including permits related to the discharge of air pollutants and wastewater. From time to time, our facilities are subject to investigation by governmental regulators. Environmental compliance obligations and liability risks are inherent in many of our manufacturing and other activities. Any failure to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations or permits may subject us to a range of consequences, including fines, suspension of production, alteration of manufacturing processes, sales limitations, and criminal and civil liabilities or other sanctions. We could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of exposure to hazardous materials used, stored, released, disposed of by us or located at or under our facilities, or for other environmental or natural resource damage. Certain environmental laws, including the U.S. Comprehensive, Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or the Superfund Act, impose joint and several liability on current and previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances and costs related to damages to natural resources. Liability can attach even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. These environmental laws also can result in liability for persons, like us, who arrange for hazardous substances to be sent to disposal or treatment facilities, in the event such facilities are found to be contaminated. Such persons can be responsible for cleanup costs at a disposal or treatment facility, even if they never owned or operated the contaminated facility. One property where we currently conduct research and development operations is listed on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s 39 Table of Contents Superfund National Priorities List. However, other parties currently are responsible for all investigation, cleanup and remediation activities. Although we have not been named a responsible party at this site, if we were so named, costs associated with the cleanup of the site could have material adverse effect upon us. We have not been named a responsible party at any Superfund or other contaminated site. If we were ever so named, costs associated with the cleanup of the site could be material. Additionally, contamination that has not yet been identified could exist at one or more of our facilities, and identification of such contamination could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business is subject to complex and dynamic environmental regulatory schemes. While we have budgeted for reasonably foreseeable environmental expenditures, we cannot assure you that environmental laws will not change or become more stringent in the future. Future environmental regulations could require us to procure expensive pollution abatement or remediation equipment; to modify product designs; or to incur other expenses associated with compliance with such regulations. For example, the European Union and China recently began imposing stricter requirements regarding reduced lead content in semiconductor packaging. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, or liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business, worldwide operations and the operations of our suppliers could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could harm our future net sales and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations and business could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, such as a world health crisis, fire, earthquake, tsunami, volcano eruption, flood, hurricane, power loss, power shortage, telecommunications failure or similar events, which could harm our future net sales and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. For example, during the first quarter of fiscal 2008, our business was adversely affected by severe weather conditions in China which caused us to experience decreased demand for our products in that region. In addition, our corporate headquarters are located near major earthquake fault lines in California, and one of our two wafer fabrication facilities, as well as our new 300-millimeter wafer fabrication facility, SP1, are located near major earthquake fault lines in Japan. Also, our assembly and test facilities located in China, Malaysia and Thailand may be affected by tsunamis. In the event of a major earthquake or tsunami, we could experience loss of life of our employees, destruction of facilities or other business interruptions. If such business disruptions result in cancellations of customer orders or contribute to a general decrease in economic activity or demand for our products, or directly impact our marketing, manufacturing, financial, and logistics functions, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, the operations of our suppliers could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could cause shortages and price increases in various essential materials, such as liquid hydrogen, which are required to manufacture our products or commercial memory die such as DRAMs for incorporation into our MCP products. If we are unable to procure an adequate supply of materials that are required for us to manufacture our products, or if the operations of our other suppliers of such materials are affected by an event that causes a significant business disruption, then we may have to reduce our manufacturing operations. Such a reduction could in the future have a material adverse effect on us. We may be delayed or prevented from taking actions that require the consent of Fujitsu, whose interests may differ from or conflict with our interests or those of our other stockholders, which could decrease the value of your shares. Our bylaws provide that for so long as Fujitsu maintains an aggregate ownership interest in us of at least 10 percent, we will not be able to amend our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or effect any resolution to wind up Spansion Inc. or any other subsidiary without their prior consent. 40 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that the interests of Fujitsu will be aligned with our interests or those of our other stockholders with respect to such decisions. As a result, we may be unable to take steps that we believe are desirable and in the best interests of our stockholders. In addition, these consent rights could make an acquisition of us more difficult, even if the acquisition may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for liabilities of AMD and Fujitsu that we did not assume in our agreements. Under our agreements with AMD and Fujitsu, we agreed to assume liabilities related to our business after June 30, 2003, and liabilities related to our business prior to June 30, 2003 if such liabilities were reflected as accruals or reserves on the AMD and Fujitsu contributed balance sheets. Our assumed liabilities include claims made with respect to Flash memory products sold after June 30, 2003, even if such products were manufactured prior to June 30, 2003, and warranty claims with respect to products sold prior to June 30, 2003 to the extent such warranty claims were reflected as accruals or reserves on the AMD and Fujitsu contributed balance sheets. The allocation of assets and liabilities between AMD, Fujitsu and us may not reflect the allocation that would have been reached between unaffiliated parties and may be less favorable to us as a result. Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for AMD’s and Fujitsu’s retained liabilities. If our losses for AMD’s and Fujitsu’s retained liabilities were significant and we were ultimately held liable for them, we cannot assure you that we would be able to recover the full amount of our losses. We rely on Fujitsu Microelectronics Limited to be our largest distributor in Japan. We currently rely on Fujitsu Microelectronics Limited (FML) through its subsidiary Fujitsu Electronics Inc. (FEI) to act as the largest distributor of our products to customers in Japan, which was an important geographic market in fiscal 2006, 2007 and 2008. Under our distribution agreement with FML, FML has agreed to use its best efforts to promote the sale of our products in Japan and to other customers served by FML. In the event that we reasonably determine that FML’s sales performance in Japan and to those customers served by FML is not satisfactory based on specified criteria, then we have the right to require FML to propose and implement an agreed-upon corrective action plan. If we reasonably believe that the corrective action plan is inadequate, we can take steps to remedy deficiencies ourselves through means that include appointing another distributor as a supplementary distributor to sell products in Japan and to customers served by FML. Pursuing these actions would be costly and disruptive to the sales of our products in Japan. If FML’s sales performance in Japan is unsatisfactory or if we are unable to successfully maintain our distribution agreement and relationship with FML and we can not timely find a suitable supplementary distributor, we could be materially adversely affected. On December 28, 2007, we entered into an amendment to our distribution agreement which provides, among other terms, that FML no longer has territorial exclusivity in Japan, the distribution agreement would expire on September 30, 2008, and effective April 1, 2008 we may enter into distribution agreements with FML’s sub-distributors in Japan. We entered into a second amendment to our distribution agreement, effective September 30, 2008, extending the term of the agreement until we enter into a successor distribution agreement with FEI, or April 25, 2009. If FML or FEI unexpectedly terminates its distribution agreement with us, or otherwise ceases its support of our customers in Japan, we would be required to rely on a relationship with another distributor or establish our own local sales organization and support functions. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in selling our products to customers currently served by FML or new customers. If customers currently served by FML, or potential new customers, refuse to purchase our products directly from us or from another distributor, our sales in Japan may decline, and we could be materially adversely affected. AMD and Fujitsu may continue to use all of our intellectual property and the intellectual property they have transferred to us. In connection with our reorganization as Spansion LLC in June 2003, AMD and Fujitsu transferred approximately 400 patents and patent applications to us. In addition, AMD and Fujitsu contributed additional 41 Table of Contents patents to us at the time of our initial public offering. However, both AMD and Fujitsu have retained the rights to use any patents contributed to us for an unlimited period of time. In addition, under their respective patent cross-license agreements with us, AMD and Fujitsu have also obtained licenses to our present and future patents with effective filing dates prior to the later of June 30, 2013, or such date on which they have transferred all of their shares in us, although the scope of patents under license can be impacted by a change in control of the parties or their semiconductor groups. These licenses continue until the last to expire of the patents under license expires and provide AMD and Fujitsu with licenses to all of our present and future patents in existence through such cross-license termination date. Furthermore, we entered into an Amended and Restated Intellectual Property Contribution and Ancillary Matters Agreement with AMD and Fujitsu in connection with our reorganization as Spansion Inc. in December 2005. Pursuant to that agreement, subject to our confidentiality obligations to third parties, and only for so long as AMD’s and Fujitsu’s ownership interests in us remain above specific minimum levels, we are obligated to identify any of our technology to each of AMD and Fujitsu, and to provide copies of and training with respect to that technology to them. In addition, pursuant to this agreement we have granted a non-exclusive, perpetual, irrevocable fully paid and royalty-free license of our rights, other than patent and trademark rights, in that technology to each of AMD and Fujitsu. Under our non-competition agreement, both AMD and Fujitsu have agreed that they will not directly or indirectly engage in a business, and have agreed to divest any acquired business, that manufactures or supplies standalone semiconductor devices (including single chip, multiple chip or system devices) containing certain Flash memory, which is the business in which we primarily compete. With respect to each of AMD and Fujitsu, this non-competition restriction will last until the earlier of (i) two years from the date such stockholder’s ownership in us falls to or below five percent, or (ii) the dissolution of our company. After that time, should they ever decide to re-enter the Flash memory business, AMD or Fujitsu could use our present and future patents and technologies licensed by us to AMD and Fujitsu under the cross licenses and our Amended and Restated Intellectual Property Contribution and Ancillary Matters Agreement to compete against us. If either AMD or Fujitsu were to compete with us, we could be materially adversely affected. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, our stockholders’ only opportunity to achieve a return on their investment is through appreciation in the price of our common stock. We currently do not plan to pay dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future and are currently prohibited from doing so in specific circumstances under agreements governing our borrowing arrangements. In addition, because we are a holding company, our ability to pay cash dividends on shares of our common stock may be limited by restrictions on our ability to obtain sufficient funds through dividends from our subsidiaries, including the restrictions under the indenture governing the notes. Our common stock will rank junior as to payment of dividends to any series of preferred stock that we may issue in the future. Generally, unless full dividends including any cumulative dividends still owing on all outstanding shares of any preferred stock have been paid, no dividends will be declared or paid on our common stock. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in our company will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates. Any future issuance of our preferred stock could adversely affect holders of our common stock. Our board of directors is authorized to issue shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders. Our board of directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such series of shares of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or if we liquidate, dissolve or wind up our business and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our affairs, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. 42 Table of Contents Provisions in our corporate governance documents as well as Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us that stockholders may consider favorable, which could decrease the value of your shares. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to remove directors, a classified board of directors and limitations on action by our stockholders by written consent. In addition, our board of directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to make an acquisition of us more difficult. Although we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics and thereby provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 