ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks materialize, our business could be materially harmed, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The semiconductor market is highly competitive and subject to rapid, highly volatile changes in demand, pricing and product mix that are difficult to predict. Our failure to adequately forecast our customers’ needs could materially adversely affect our business. The semiconductor market is mature and subject to business cycles that can include extended periods of oversupply and constant downward price pressure, which is due, in substantial part, to the relatively large number of competing firms and technologies. Our competitors include Analog Devices, Inc., Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., Infineon Technologies Corporation, Macronix International Co., Ltd, Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., Micron Technology, Inc., Renesas Electronics Corp., SK Hynix Inc. (“SK Hynix”), ST Microelectronics N.V., Toshiba Semiconductor Company Inc. and Winbond Electronics Corporation. During economic downturns, periods of extremely intense competition, or the presence of oversupply in the industry, the selling prices for our products have declined at a rapid rate over relatively short time periods as compared to historical rates of decline. When such pricing declines occur, we may not be able to mitigate their effects by selling more or higher margin units, or by reducing our manufacturing costs in a corresponding fashion. In such circumstances, our operating results could be materially adversely affected and we may determine that goodwill or other intangible assets have become impaired. To forecast demand and value inventory, we consider, among other factors, inventory on hand, historical customer demand data, backlog data, the competitiveness of product offerings, target market growth, market conditions and product life cycles. If we are unable to accurately assess these factors and anticipate future demand or market conditions, we may have excess or obsolete inventory resulting in inventory write-down which would be reflected in cost of sales in the period the write-down is made. In addition, during periods of industry overcapacity, customers generally do not order products as far in advance of the scheduled shipment date as they do during periods when our industry is operating closer to capacity, which can exacerbate the difficulty in forecasting capacity requirements and may result in increased inventory levels. Similarly, when customers change orders booked with us, our planned manufacturing capacity may be greater or less than actual demand, resulting in less than optimal capacity usage. When this occurs, we adjust our production levels, but downward adjustments may not prevent our production of excess inventory. An inability to address challenges like the ones described above would have a negative impact on our gross margin in that period. Moreover, inaccurate forecasting could also result in shortages in inventory that would cause us to fail to meet customer demand. If we are unable to produce the types and quantities of products within the timeframes and on delivery schedules required by our customers, we may lose customers or, in certain circumstances, be liable for losses incurred by our customers, which would materially adversely affect our business and financial results. 10 Investment in new business strategies and acquisitions, such as our acquisition of the Fujitsu MCA business, involves numerous risks and may not result in the strategic and financial benefits we expected, and may present risks not originally contemplated. On August 1, 2013, we completed the acquisition of the MCA business. This transaction involved challenges and risks that could adversely affect our business and operating results, including: • the transaction may not provide the advantages that we anticipated; • we have little experience in producing, marketing and selling MCA products and may not be able to do so successfully; • we will be required to dedicate a significant amount of time and attention of our senior management and other employees to the integration of the MCA business operations, and this may adversely affect their capacity to manage the combined business or pursue other opportunities; • we may not realize a satisfactory return; • we may be unable to retain key personnel; • we may experience difficulty in integrating new employees, business systems, and technology; • the acquired MCA business may not have adequate controls, processes, and procedures to ensure compliance with laws and regulations, including controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley regulations, and our due diligence process may not have identified compliance issues or other liabilities; • we may be unable to retain the customers and partners of acquired businesses; and/or • there may be unanticipated intellectual property disputes or other litigation. We may also be subject to additional liabilities imposed by law as a result of our participation in a multi-employer defined benefit pension plan. The Plan imposes certain liabilities upon an employer who is a contributor to a multi-employer pension plan under specific circumstances such as the employer withdraws from the plan, or the plan is terminated, or experiences a mass withdrawal. These liabilities include an allocable share of the underfunded vested benefits in the plan for all plan participants, not merely the benefits payable to a contributing employer’s own retirees. As a result, participating employers may bear a higher proportion of liability for underfunded vested benefits if other participating employers cease to contribute or withdraw, with the reallocation of liability being more acute in cases when a withdrawn employer is insolvent or otherwise fails to pay its withdrawal liability. Also, contribution rates could increase if the performance of plan assets does not meet expectations. The MCA business is currently concentrated primarily in Japan in automotive and consumer applications, which exposes us to certain risks, including Japanese currency exchange rate fluctuations, contraction in automotive and consumer end- market demand due to adverse regional or worldwide economic conditions, as well as a decline in the automotive industry in Japan. If we are unable to achieve greater diversification in our MCA business, we could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we may in the future invest in other new business strategies or acquisitions that may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including the distraction of our management team from current operations, greater than expected liabilities and expenses, inadequate return on capital, and unidentified issues not discovered during our due diligence. Our results of operations may be adversely impacted by costs associated with our acquisitions, including one-time charges associated with restructurings. Further, our acquisitions could fail to produce the benefits that we anticipate, or could have other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. In addition, some of the assumptions that we have relied upon, such as achievement of operating synergies, may not be realized. Our operating results are dependent on the performance of distributors, including FSL, who is our primary distributor for Japan. A significant portion of our sales are through independent distributors that are not under our control. For example, sales through distributors accounted for 71%, 68% and 69% of our net sales for fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Generally, our agreements with third party distributors may be terminated for convenience by either party upon relatively short notice and are non-exclusive, permitting our distributors to offer our competitors’ products. We generally do not require letters of credit from our distributors and are not protected against accounts receivable default or bankruptcy of these distributors. While historically the inability to collect open accounts receivable has not been an issue for us, we cannot be assured that we will not encounter such collection problems in the future. Termination of a significant distributor, whether at our initiative or the distributor’s initiative, could disrupt our business, and if we are unable to find suitable replacements, our operating results could be adversely affected. In Japan, which is an important geographic market for us, we currently rely primarily on FSL through one of its subsidiaries to distribute our products to customers. For example, sales of our products through FSL represented 39% of our total net sales for fiscal 2013, and we expect this percentage to increase in 2014 due to our acquisition of the MCA business. Our agreement with FSL for flash memory sales is no longer exclusive and FSL may sell our competitors’ flash memory products. However, our agreement with FSL for the distribution of MCA products within Japan, and for certain accounts outside Japan, is exclusive for a period of five years, during which time FSL is not permitted to offer competing products. Either party may terminate the flash memory distribution agreement for convenience upon 60 days written notice to the other party. Either party may terminate the MCA distribution agreement for breach upon 120 days written notice to the other party. If FSL unexpectedly terminates either of the distribution agreements with us, or otherwise ceases its support of our customers in Japan, we would be required to develop and rely on a relationship with another distributor or establish our own local sales organization and support functions. We cannot be certain that we would be successful in selling our products to customers currently served by FSL or new customers. If our sales in Japan were to decline, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. We generally provide price protection to our distributors on the inventory they carry. Significant declines in the value of that inventory may require us to undertake inventory write-downs. Distributors typically maintain an inventory of our products. For certain distributors, we have signed agreements that protect the value of their inventory of our products against price reductions, and/or provide for rights of return under specific conditions. Certain agreements with our distributors also contain standard stock rotation provisions permitting limited levels of product returns. We do not recognize revenue on our sales to these distributors until the applicable products are re-sold by the distributors and reported to us. However, in the event of an unexpected significant decline in the price of our products or significant return of unsold inventory, we may experience inventory write-downs, charges to reimburse costs incurred by distributors, or other charges or adjustments, any of which could result in a material adverse impact to our revenues and operating results. 11 We are not protected by long-term supply contracts with our customers. We do not typically enter into long-term supply contracts with our customers, and we cannot be certain as to future customer order levels. When we do enter into a long-term contract, the contract is generally terminable at the convenience of the customer. In the event of an early termination by one of our major customers, it is unlikely that we will be able to rapidly replace that revenue source which would harm our financial results. A number of factors, including our fab utilization, inventory strategy, can impact our gross margins. Numerous factors, including fab utilization, yield, wafer pricing, product mix, market acceptance of our new products, competitive pricing dynamics, geographic and/or market segment pricing strategies cause our gross margins to fluctuate. In addition, forecasting our gross margins is difficult because a significant portion of our business is based on the fulfillment of orders within the same quarter the orders are placed. In the event demand does not materialize, we may be subject to incremental obsolescence costs. Future product cost reductions could also have an adverse impact on our inventory valuation, which would then impact our operating results. Our global customer base and support structure expose us to regional risks that could materially adversely affect our business globally. Sales to customers outside the United States were approximately 87% of our total net sales for fiscal 2013. Additionally, we operate in more than ten countries, and a substantial portion of our manufacturing operations and those of our third party manufacturers are located outside the United States, primarily in Japan, China, Taiwan, Korea, Thailand and Malaysia. As a result, our business is subject to a variety of risks that are specific to the regions and countries in which we operate, including: • currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on the transfer of funds; • natural disasters, such as tsunamis, earthquakes, fires and floods; • political and economic instability; • difficulties in protecting our intellectual property; • problems with the transportation or delivery of our products; • longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • compliance with trade, technical standards and other laws in a variety of jurisdictions; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and • adverse global economic conditions. These factors may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. To the extent practicable, we seek to proactively reduce our exposure to these risks where possible, but we may not be successful. For example, we use foreign currency forward contracts to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The objective of these contracts is to reduce the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our operating results and on our foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. We do not use these contracts for speculative or trading purposes. We cannot assure you that these activities will be successful in reducing our foreign currency exchange rate exposure. If these activities are unsuccessful, our financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, our compliance with foreign laws, regulations and similar requirements may be onerous and expensive, and these laws and regulations may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, further increasing the cost and difficulty of compliance. Any such costs could individually or in the aggregate make our products and services less attractive to our customers, delay the introduction of new products in one or more regions, or cause us to change or limit our business practices. We have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies. 12 We may not satisfy the covenants, financial ratio tests and incurrence limitations in our debt instruments, which if not met, could have a material adverse effect on us. Our bank agreements require us to comply with covenants, financial ratio tests and incurrence limitations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy or comply with these covenants, financial ratio tests and incurrence limitations, because our ability to do so may be affected by events beyond our control. If we fail to satisfy or comply with the covenants, financial ratio tests and incurrence limitations, or if we disagree with our lenders about whether or not we are in compliance, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain waivers or amendments if required to avoid a default. A breach of any of the provisions, covenants, financial ratio tests or incurrence limitations under our debt instruments could prevent us from being able to draw down under our bank loans or result in an event of default under the applicable agreement, which in turn could trigger cross defaults under other debt instruments, any of which would materially adversely affect us. Our reliance on third party manufacturers for scale and cost benefits entails risks that could materially adversely affect us. We currently have, and plan in the future to enter into, foundry, subcontractor and other arrangements with third parties to meet demand for our products. Third party manufacturers we currently use or expect to use in the future for foundry and other manufacturing services include SK Hynix, Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation (SMIC), Wuhan Xinxin Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation (XMC), Fujitsu Semiconductor Limited (FSL), and United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC). We also use independent contractors to perform some of the assembly, testing and packaging of our products, including ChipMOS Technologies Inc. and J-Devices Corporation. We depend on these manufacturers to allocate to us a portion of their manufacturing capacity sufficient to meet our needs. Just as we are generally under no obligation to provide any specified minimum purchase quantities, third party manufacturers are generally under no obligation to provide us with any specified minimum quantity of product. We also depend on these manufacturers to produce products of acceptable quality and at acceptable manufacturing yields and to deliver those products to us on a timely basis at acceptable prices. In addition, we rely on these manufacturers to invest capital into their facilities and process technologies to meet our needs for new products using advanced process technologies. We also cannot assure you that these manufacturers will be able to meet our near-term or long-term manufacturing requirements and that we will be able to attain qualification from our customers, which may be required prior to production of products at a third party facility. In addition, any significant change in the payment terms we have with these manufacturers could adversely affect us. Third party manufacturers with whom we contract also make products for other companies, including certain of our competitors, and/or for themselves and could choose to prioritize capacity for themselves or other customers beyond any minimum guaranteed amounts, reduce deliveries to us or, in the absence of price guarantees, increase the prices they charge us on short notice, such that we may not be able to pass cost increases on to our customers. We may be unable to secure an alternative supply for specific products in a short timeframe or at all at an acceptable cost to satisfy our production requirements. In addition, we may be required to incur additional development, manufacturing and other costs to establish alternative sources of supply. Other risks associated with our increased dependence on third party manufacturers include: their ability to adapt to our proprietary technology; reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields and cost; misappropriation of our intellectual property; their solvency; reduced ability to manage inventory and parts; and risks associated with operating in foreign countries. If we are unable to secure sufficient or reliable suppliers of wafers or obtain the necessary assembly, testing and packaging services, our ability to meet customer demand for our products may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Unless we maintain manufacturing efficiency, we may not continue to be profitable and our future profitability could be materially adversely affected. The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological changes. For example, new manufacturing process technologies using smaller feature sizes and offering better performance characteristics are generally introduced every one to two years. The introduction of new manufacturing process technologies allows us to increase the functionality of our products while at the same time optimizing performance parameters and, for flash memory, increasing storage capacity. In addition, the reduction of feature sizes enables us to produce smaller chips offering the same functionality and thereby considerably reducing the cost. In order to remain competitive, it is essential that we secure the capabilities to develop and qualify new manufacturing process technologies. For example, our leading NOR flash memory products must be manufactured at 45-nanometer and more advanced process technologies. If we are delayed in transitioning to these technologies and other future technologies, we could be materially adversely affected. If we are delayed in transitioning to these technologies and other future technologies, we could be materially adversely affected. In addition, some competitors for our microcontroller and analog products have developed and have access to more advanced processes than we do. For example, while some of our competitors manufacture on 300mm wafer technology, some of our internal production is manufactured on 200mm wafers, and may be on less advanced process nodes. If we are delayed in transitioning to newer technologies, or unable to take advantage of larger wafer production in a timely manner, we could be materially adversely affected. 13 Manufacturing our products involves highly complex processes that require advanced equipment. We continuously modify our manufacturing processes in an effort to improve yields and product performance and decrease costs. Improving our manufacturing efficiency in future periods is dependent on our ability to: • develop advanced process technologies and advanced products that utilize those technologies; • successfully transition to advanced process technologies; • continue to reduce test times; • ramp product and process technology improvements rapidly and effectively to commercial volumes; • achieve acceptable levels of manufacturing wafer output and yields, which may decrease as we implement more advanced technologies; and • maintain our quality controls and rely upon the quality and process controls of our suppliers. Our manufacturing efficiency is an important factor in achieving profitability, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain or increase our manufacturing efficiency to the same extent as our competitors. A failure to do so could adversely impact our relationships with customers, cause harm to our reputation in the marketplace, cause customers to move future business to our competitors or cause us to make financial concessions to our customers, in which case our business could be materially adversely affected. Our revenue reporting is highly dependent on sales information from our distributors, and our financial reporting could be misstated if such information is not accurate and timely. Our revenue reporting is highly dependent on receiving accurate and timely sell-through data from our distributors. As our distributors resell products, they provide us with data regarding the products sold, prices, quantities, end customers, and the amount of our products they still have in stock. The data we receive is voluminous and complex, and we must use estimates and apply judgments to reconcile distributors’ reported inventories to their sell-through activities. Actual results could vary unfavorably from our estimates, which could affect our operating results and could adversely affect our business. Our ability to generate sufficient operating cash flows depends in part on maintaining our low cost strategy. Our ability to generate operating cash flows depends in large part on the maintenance of a low cost strategy. As part of our strategy, we intend to continue our cost reduction efforts which have included restructuring and technology development agreements. Cost reduction activities may require initial cash outlays before the anticipated benefits are realized. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve anticipated expense reductions. If our low cost strategy is unsuccessful, our operating results and business may be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, in certain instances our cost reductions may make it more difficult for us to succeed in the extremely competitive semiconductor market. If essential equipment or adequate supplies of satisfactory materials are not available to manufacture our products, we could be materially adversely affected. Our manufacturing operations depend upon obtaining deliveries of equipment and adequate supplies of materials on a timely basis. We purchase equipment and materials from a number of suppliers. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supply to us or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Because the equipment we use is complex and highly customized, it may be difficult for us to substitute one supplier for another or one piece of equipment for another. Some raw materials used in the manufacture of our products are available from a limited number of suppliers or only from a particular region. In addition, we purchase raw materials such as gold for which prices on the world markets have fluctuated significantly during recent periods. Our manufacturing operations also depend upon the quality and usability of the material inputs, including raw materials and wafers received from our suppliers. If the materials we receive from our suppliers do not meet our manufacturing requirements or product specifications, are not obtained in a timely manner or if there are significant increases in costs of materials, we may be materially adversely affected. In addition, some of our suppliers may also be our competitors. Interruption of supply or increased demand in the industry could cause shortages and price increases in various essential materials. If we are unable to procure these materials we may have to reduce our manufacturing operations or our manufacturing yields may be adversely affected. Such a reduction and yield issues could have a material adverse effect on us. 14 We cannot be certain that we will have sufficient resources to invest in the level of research and development required to remain competitive or that our substantial research and development investments will lead to timely improvements in technology needed to successfully develop, introduce and commercialize new products and technologies. The semiconductor industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. In order to compete, we are required to make substantial investments in research and development for product design, process technologies and production techniques in an effort to design and manufacture advanced and innovative products. Our success depends to a significant extent on our ability to develop, qualify, produce, introduce and gain market acceptance of new product designs and improvements that provide value to customers. Our ability to develop and qualify new products and related technologies to meet evolving industry requirements at prices acceptable to our customers and on a timely basis is critical to our competitiveness in our target markets. If we are delayed in developing or qualifying new products or technologies, we could be materially adversely affected. In order to grow and diversify our microcontroller business, we may need to manufacture products on significantly more advanced process technologies than are used in our microcontroller products today in order to achieve higher performance, enhanced capabilities such as greater code and data storage integrated on the die and lower costs. For example, some of our competitors have 40-nanometer class process technologies in production today and are developing more advanced process technologies at smaller process nodes. We are developing 40-nanometer class technology in a joint development with UMC, including the ability to integrate our embedded Charge Trap (eCT) flash memory technology. Delays in developing this technology or in the availability of products based on this technology could materially adversely affect us. In our MCA business we will compete with well-established, significantly larger competitors with the ability to deploy significantly greater resources than our own, to address automotive and other broader market applications. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources independently or through joint development agreements to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required for us to remain competitive and to grow and diversify our microcontroller or MCA businesses, which could materially adversely affect us. Our strategy is to increasingly seek to share research and development costs with third parties. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate arrangements for our research and development needs, or that such arrangements will result in commercially successful technology and products in a timely manner or at all. We will be dependent on the third parties in such agreements to continue to invest financial and skilled human resources, and we cannot assure you that such third parties will make the necessary investments, the absence of which would materially adversely affect our business. Competitors may introduce new memory or other technologies that may make our flash memory products uncompetitive or obsolete, or may create new microcontroller or analog products with configurations, capabilities and features that are more desirable than ours. Our flash memory competitors are working on a number of potentially competitive technologies .compared to the industry standard floating gate and MirrorBit flash memory technologies utilized today. If products based on these new technologies are successfully developed and commercialized as a viable alternative to floating gate or MirrorBit flash memory, these products could pose a competitive threat to existing flash memory companies, including us. We may be materially adversely affected by loss of our existing market share due to such competition. In our MCA business, we compete with well-established, significantly larger competitors with the ability to deploy significantly greater resources than our own to address automotive and other broader market applications. If we are unable to develop new and innovative products to compete, or unable to develop such new products in a sufficient number of variations and with desirable features and capabilities to meet our customers’ needs, we may be materially adversely affected. Our cash requirements may require us to seek additional financing, which may not be available to us. Our debt facilities may not be sufficient for our future working capital, investments and cash requirements, in which case we would need to seek additional financing or scale back our operations. We may not be able to access additional financing resources due to a variety of reasons, including the restrictive covenants in our lending agreements and the lack of available capital due to tight global credit markets. If our financing requirements are not met and we are unable to access additional financing, our business, operations, financial condition and cash flows will be materially adversely affected. 15 If we cannot adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property in the United States and abroad, through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks, litigation and other measures, we may lose a competitive advantage and incur significant expenses as a result of litigation and other claims. We rely on a combination of protections provided by contracts, including confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements, copyrights, patents, trademarks and common law rights, such as trade secrets, to protect our intellectual property. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property from third party infringement or from misappropriation in the United States and abroad. Any patent owned or licensed by us or issued to us could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or rights granted under these patents or licenses may not provide a competitive advantage to us. Furthermore, patent applications that we file may not result in issuance of a patent or, if a patent is issued, the patent may not be issued in a form that is advantageous to us. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, others may independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around our patents and other intellectual property rights. In addition, it is difficult to monitor compliance with, and enforce, our intellectual property rights on a worldwide basis in a cost-effective manner. Foreign laws may provide less intellectual property protection than is afforded in the United States. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property in the United States and abroad through lawsuits may be time-consuming and costly. We provide indemnities relating to non-infringement of patents and other intellectual property indemnities to certain of our customers in connection with the delivery, design, manufacture and sale of our products. If we incur substantial costs in connection with any claim pursuant to such indemnification, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If we cannot adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property rights in the United States and abroad, we may be materially adversely affected. We may be involved in intellectual property litigation in the future that could be found to have infringed on intellectual property rights. Technology companies, including many of our competitors, frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, patent holding companies seek to monetize patents they have purchased or otherwise obtained often without regard to their use of these patents for the production and sale of products. We are subject, and may become subject in the future, to claims in the future and may be required to enter into other litigation and, defend against such actions in courts and before the U.S. International Trade Commission, as well as internationally in Europe and Asia. For more information, see “Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings,” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The plaintiffs in these actions frequently seek injunctions and substantial damages. Regardless of the scope or validity of such patents or other intellectual property rights, or the merits of any claims by potential or actual litigants, we may have to engage in protracted litigation. Such litigation is often expensive, time-consuming, disruptive to operations, and distracting to management. In recognition of these considerations, we may decide to enter into arrangements to settle litigation. If we are found to infringe on one or more patents or other intellectual property rights, regardless of whether we can develop non-infringing technology, we may be required to pay substantial damages or royalties to a third party or we may be subject to a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain products. In certain cases, we may consider the desirability of entering into licensing agreements, although no assurance can be given that such licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. Any such licenses may also significantly increase our operating expenses. The outcome of any litigation is inherently uncertain and if the outcome is unfavorable to us, we may incur a material loss, or a material loss in excess of a recorded accrual, with respect to loss contingencies, including matters related to infringement of intellectual property rights and we could be materially adversely affected. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to our information technology systems, we may lose proprietary data. Our security measures may be breached as a result of third party action, including computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and result in unauthorized access to our customers’ data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, or our information technology systems. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any security breach could result in disclosure of our trade secrets, confidential customer, supplier or employee data, which could result in legal liability, harm to our reputation and otherwise harm our business. Our stock price may be volatile, and stockholders may lose all or part of their investment. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and may in the future be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many risk factors listed in this section, and others beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated changes in our operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived to be comparable to us; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, divestitures, joint ventures or other strategic initiatives; • unfavorable results in litigation; and • stock price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels or other factors. 16 Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of shares of our common stock. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carry-forwards and certain other tax attributes in the future may be impaired. Pursuant to U.S. federal and state tax rules, a corporation is generally permitted to deduct from taxable income in any year net operating losses (NOLs) carried forward from prior years. We have U.S federal NOL carry forwards of approximately $1,024.3 million as of December 29, 2013. Approximately $489.7 million of the federal NOL carry forwards are subject to an annual limitation of $27.2 million. These NOLs, if not utilized, expire from 2016 to 2033. In addition, our ability to utilize unlimited federal NOL carry forwards could be subject to a significant limitation if we were to undergo an "ownership change" for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. We may in the future incur impairments to goodwill or long-lived assets. Our assets include significant amounts of goodwill and other intangible assets. We review our long-lived assets, including these assets, for impairment annually in the fourth fiscal quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of those assets may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered in assessing whether goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in our stock price or market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. Because we operate in highly competitive environments, actual operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from projections thereof. . Any such changes could result in our recording impairment charges that adversely affect our results of operations. Our success depends on our key personnel and the loss of key personnel could disrupt our business. Our success greatly depends on the continued contributions of our senior management and other key research and development, sales, marketing and operations personnel. In addition, our success will depend on our ability to recruit and retain additional highly-skilled personnel. We have relied on equity awards in the form of stock options and restricted stock units as one means for recruiting and retaining highly skilled talent and a reduction in our stock price may reduce the effectiveness of those awards used for retaining employees. The loss of key personnel could disrupt or adversely affect our business. Costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on us. One or more of our products may be found to be defective or we may initiate voluntary recalls of products after they have been shipped to customers in volume. We generally provide a limited warranty with respect to our products. Accordingly, if we recall products or are forced to replace defective products, the cost of product replacements or product returns may be substantial, and our reputation with our customers could be damaged. In addition, we could incur substantial costs to implement modifications to fix defects. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws that could result in liabilities. Our properties and many aspects of our business operations are subject to various domestic and international environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to materials used in our products and manufacturing processes; chemical use and handling; waste minimization; discharge of pollutants into the environment; the treatment, transport, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes; and remediation of contamination. Certain of these laws and regulations require us to obtain permits for our operations, including permits related to the discharge of air pollutants and wastewater. From time to time, our facilities are subject to investigation by governmental regulators. Any failure to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations or permits may subject us to a range of consequences, including fines, suspension of production, alteration of manufacturing processes, sales limitations, and criminal and civil liabilities or other sanctions. We could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of exposure to hazardous materials used, stored, released, disposed of by us or located at or under our facilities, or for other environmental or natural resource damage. 17 Certain environmental laws, including the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or the Superfund Act, impose joint and several liabilities on current and previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances and costs related to damages to natural resources. One of former our properties is listed on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Superfund National Priorities List. However, other parties currently are responsible for all investigation, cleanup and remediation activities. We have not been named a responsible party at any Superfund or other contaminated site. If we were ever so named, costs associated with the cleanup of the site could be material. Additionally, contamination that has not yet been identified could exist at one or more of our facilities, and identification of such contamination could have a material adverse effect on us. Future environmental regulations could require us to procure expensive pollution abatement or remediation equipment; to modify product designs; or to incur other expenses associated with compliance with such regulations. For example, the European Union and China impose stricter requirements regarding reduced lead content in semiconductor packaging. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, or liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Provisions in our corporate governance documents as well as Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to remove directors, a classified board of directors and limitations on action by our stockholders by written consent. In addition, our board of directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to make an acquisition of us more difficult. Although we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics and thereby provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. Regulations related to disclosure requirements regarding conflict minerals may force us to incur additional compliance expenses, may make our supply chain more complex. On August 22, 2012, as mandated by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the SEC adopted new disclosure regulations for public companies that manufacture products that contain certain minerals and their derivatives, namely tin, tantalum, tungsten or gold, known as conflict minerals, if these minerals are necessary to the functionality or production of the company’s products. These regulations require such issuers to report annually whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo (“DRC”) and adjoining countries and in some cases to perform extensive due diligence on their supply chains for such minerals. The implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of conflict minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices, including our products. In addition, we may incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals used in our products. Since our supply chain is complex, the due diligence procedures that we implement may not enable us to ascertain the origins for these minerals or determine that these minerals are DRC conflict free, which may harm our reputation. We may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who may require that our products be certified as DRC conflict free, which could harm our relationships with these customers and lead to a loss of revenue. These new requirements also could have the effect of limiting the pool of suppliers from which we source these minerals, and we may be unable to obtain conflict-free minerals at competitive prices, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 18 