ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks materialize, our business could be materially harmed, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The Flash memory market is highly competitive and subject to rapid, highly volatile changes in demand, pricing and product mix that are difficult to predict. Our failure to adequately forecast our customers’ needs could materially adversely affect our business. The Flash memory market is a mature one subject to business cycles that include extended periods of oversupply and constant downward price pressure, which is due, in substantial part, to the relatively large number of competing firms and technologies. Our competitors are primarily NOR Flash memory makers, including: Micron Technology, Inc., Macronix International Co., Ltd., Winbond Electronics Corp., Microchip Technology Inc., EON Silicon Solution Inc. and Atmel Corporation. We increasingly compete with NAND Flash memory makers for applications where NAND Flash memory is suitable for use as code storage. Our NAND Flash memory competitors include Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Micron Technology, Hynix Semiconductor Inc. and Toshiba Semiconductor Company Inc. In the future, additional NAND Flash memory competitors may include Elpida Memory, Inc., Powerchip Technology Corporation, Macronix International Co., Ltd., Intel Corporation, Sandisk Corporation and Winbond Electronics Corporation. During economic downturns, periods of extremely intense competition, or the presence of oversupply in the industry, the selling prices for our products have declined at a rapid rate over relatively short time periods as compared to historical rates of decline. When such pricing declines occur, we may not be able to mitigate the effects by selling more or higher margin units, or by reducing our manufacturing costs. In such circumstances, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. To forecast demand and value inventory, we consider, among other factors, the inventory on hand, historical customer demand data, backlog data, competitiveness of product offerings, market conditions and product life cycles. If we are unable to accurately assess these factors and anticipate future demand or market conditions, inventory write-downs may be required and would be reflected in cost of sales in the period the write-down is made. Similarly, when customers change orders booked with us, our planned manufacturing capacity may be greater or less than actual demand, resulting in less than optimal capacity usage. When this occurs, we adjust our production levels, but downward adjustments may not prevent our production of excess inventory. An inability to address challenges like the ones described above would have a negative impact on our gross margin in that period. Moreover, inaccurate forecasting could also result in excess or obsolete inventory that would reduce our margins or shortages in inventory that would cause us to fail to meet customer demand. If we are unable to produce the types and quantities of products required by our customers in the timeframes and on the delivery schedules required by our customers, we may lose customers or, in certain circumstances, be liable for losses incurred by our customers, which would materially adversely affect our business and financial results. 11 Table of Contents For the reasons stated above, it is difficult to predict future growth or decline in the markets we serve, making it very difficult to estimate requirements for production capacity. If our target markets do not grow as we anticipate, we may under-utilize our manufacturing capacity or we may be contractually obligated to purchase minimum quantities of certain products from our subcontractors. This may result in write-downs or write-offs of inventories and losses on products the demand for which is lower than we anticipate. For example, in the third and fourth quarters of 2011, we wrote down our wireless inventories as a result of a product transition by serial NOR and an overall surplus of inventory in the market. In addition, during periods of industry overcapacity, customers do not generally order products as far in advance of the scheduled shipment date as they do during periods when our industry is operating closer to capacity, which can exacerbate the difficulty in forecasting capacity requirements and may result in increased inventory levels. Our business is primarily focused on serving the embedded portion of the Flash memory market, which is both more robust and mature than the wireless segment but which is, in certain sub-segments, still subject to similar trends in terms of product mix and downward price pressure. If we fail to execute on our strategy to serve the embedded portion, our business could be materially adversely affected. The integrated Flash memory market has two primary groups of applications, embedded and wireless. Historically, we served both groups. Beginning in 2009, however, we started focusing primarily on the embedded market due to its longer product life cycles, higher gross margins, and reduced need to incorporate third party DRAM, PSRAM and NAND into our products. Prior to our change in focus, our wireless sales typically represented 50 percent of our total sales in a quarter. By contrast, in fiscal 2011 wireless sales were 14 percent of total net sales. The embedded market, however, is more mature than the wireless market and is expected to grow more slowly than some other sectors of the semiconductor industry. In addition, the embedded market, like the wireless market, historically has been, and we anticipate that it will continue to be, subject to selling price reductions. Moreover, existing trends in the wireless market (e.g., increasing downward pressure on gross margins and price per bit) are relevant to and lead similar trends in certain consumer-facing sub-segments within the embedded market (e.g., the consumer market that includes set top boxes for cable and satellite entertainment services). If we are unable to successfully address these challenges or unable to grow our participation in the embedded portion of the Flash memory, our business could be materially adversely affected. We primarily sell parallel NOR Flash memory products, which are being replaced in certain applications by Flash memory products that we do not currently offer. We are developing competitive Flash memory products for these applications, but our business could be materially adversely affected if we fail to bring these new products to market. Flash memory products have either a NOR architecture (NOR Flash memory products) or a NAND architecture (NAND Flash memory products). NOR Flash memory products have either a parallel interface (parallel NOR) or a serial interface (serial NOR) and typically are more reliable and have a higher cost-per-bit than NAND Flash memory products. System designers use NOR Flash memory products primarily for code storage, while they use NAND Flash memory products primarily for data storage. Increasingly, however, for certain embedded system designs, particularly in consumer-facing market segments, higher density NAND Flash memory products are being used for code storage instead of high density, parallel NOR Flash memory products. Similarly, and also in consumer-focused markets, in which product cycles are rapid and keeping cost down is paramount, system designers are increasingly choosing low-density serial NOR Flash memory products over similar density parallel NOR offerings. In contrast, we primarily sell parallel NOR products having medium to high density (32 megabits and above). We also primarily sell serial NOR products having medium to high density. We are currently developing 12 Table of Contents NAND Flash memory products and expanding our low density (less than 32 megabits) serial NOR Flash memory product portfolio to meet the increasing demand for these products in embedded applications. However, we cannot be certain that we will successfully develop and introduce NAND Flash memory products and additional low density serial NOR Flash memory products in time to counteract the falling demand for the parallel NOR Flash memory products we currently sell. If we fail to do so, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our operating results are dependent on the performance of distributors, including Fujitsu Semiconductors Limited, who is our primary distributor for Japan. A significant portion of our sales are through independent distributors that are not under our control. For example, sales through distributors accounted for 69 percent and 70 percent of our net sales for fiscal 2011 and 2010 respectively. Generally, our agreements with third-party distributors can be terminated for convenience by either party upon relatively short notice. These agreements generally are non-exclusive and also permit our distributors to offer our competitors’ products. We generally do not require letters of credit from our distributors and are not protected against accounts receivable default or bankruptcy by these distributors. Our inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our operating results. Termination of a significant distributor, whether at our initiative or the distributor’s initiative, could disrupt our current business, and if we are unable to find suitable replacements, our operating results could be adversely affected. In Japan, which is an important geographic market for us, we currently rely primarily on Fujitsu Semiconductors Limited (“FSL”) through its subsidiary, Fujitsu Electronics Inc. (“FEI”), to distribute our products to customers. For example, sales of our products through FSL represented 29 percent of our total net sales for fiscal 2011. Historically, our agreement with FSL has been exclusive and FSL has not been permitted to offer our competitors’ Flash memory products to its customers. However, exclusivity is set to expire on May 10, 2012 and FSL may then begin to sell our competitors’ Flash memory products. Under the terms of our distribution agreement with FSL, either party may terminate the distribution agreement for convenience upon 60 days written notice to the other party. If FSL unexpectedly terminates its distribution agreement with us, or otherwise ceases its support of our customers in Japan, we would be required to develop and rely on a relationship with another distributor or establish our own local sales organization and support functions. We cannot be certain that we would be successful in selling our products to customers currently served by FSL or new customers and our sales in Japan might decline, and we could be materially adversely affected. Our revenue reporting is highly dependent on sales information from our distributors, and our financial reporting could be misstated if such information is not accurate and timely. Our revenue reporting is highly dependent on receiving accurate and timely sell-through data from our distributors. As our distributors resell products, they provide us with periodic data regarding the products sold, including prices, quantities, end customers, and the amount of our products they still have in stock. The data we receive is voluminous and complex and we must use estimates and apply judgments to reconcile distributors’ reported inventories to their sell-through activities. Actual results could vary unfavorably from our estimates, which could affect our operating results and could adversely affect our business. We generally provide price protection to our distributors on the inventory they carry. Significant declines in the value of that inventory may require us to undertake inventory write-downs. Distributors typically maintain an inventory of our products. For certain distributors, we have signed agreements that protect the value of their inventory of our products against price reductions, as well as provide for rights of return under specific conditions. Certain agreements with our distributors also contain standard stock rotation provisions permitting limited levels of product returns. We do not recognize revenue on our sales to these distributors until the applicable products are re-sold by the distributors and reported to us. However, in the event of an unexpected significant decline in the price of our products or significant return of unsold inventory, 13 Table of Contents we may experience inventory write-downs, charges to reimburse costs incurred by distributors, or other charges or adjustments, any of which could result in a material adverse impact to our revenues and operating results. We are not protected by long-term supply contracts with our customers. We do not typically enter into long-term supply contracts with our customers, and we cannot be certain as to future order levels from our customers. When we do enter into a long-term contract, the contract is generally terminable at the convenience of the customer. In the event of an early termination by one of our major customers, it is unlikely that we will be able to rapidly replace that revenue source, which would harm our financial results. A number of factors, including our inventory strategy, can impact our gross margins. Numerous factors, including yield, wafer pricing, product mix, market acceptance of our new products, competitive pricing dynamics, geographic and/or market segment pricing strategies cause our gross margins to fluctuate. In addition, forecasting our gross margins is difficult because a significant portion of our business is based on the fulfillment of orders within the same quarter the orders are placed. In the event demand does not materialize, we may be subject to incremental obsolescence costs. In addition, future product cost reductions could have an increased impact on our inventory valuation, which would then impact our operating results. Our global operations expose us to regional risks that could materially adversely affect our business globally. Sales to customers outside the United States were approximately 88 percent of our total net sales for fiscal 2011. Additionally, we operate in more than ten countries, and a substantial portion of our manufacturing operations and those of our third party manufacturers are located outside the United States, primarily in Japan, China, Taiwan, Korea, Thailand and Malaysia. As a result, our business is subject to a variety of risks that are specific to the regions and countries in which we operate, including: • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • natural disasters, such as tsunamis, earthquakes, fires and floods; • export and import duties, changes to import and export regulations, and restrictions on the transfer of funds; • political and economic instability; • difficulties in protecting our intellectual property; • problems with the transportation or delivery of our products; • issues arising from cultural or language differences and labor unrest; • disruptions caused by military action or terrorist attacks; • longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • compliance with trade, technical standards and other laws in a variety of jurisdictions; • disruptions to our manufacturing operations as a result of actions imposed by foreign governments; • changes in economic policies of foreign governments; and • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. These factors may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. To the extent practicable, we seek to proactively reduce our exposure to these risks where possible, but we may not be successful. For example, we use foreign currency forward contracts to reduce our exposure to foreign 14 Table of Contents currency exchange rate fluctuations. The objective of these contracts is to reduce the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our operating results and on our foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. We do not use these contracts for speculative or trading purposes. We cannot assure you that these activities will be successful in reducing our foreign currency exchange rate exposure. If these activities are unsuccessful, our financial condition could be materially adversely affected. During the first and second quarters of 2011, we lost sales and experienced delays in the provision of foundry services by third parties in Japan as a result of the earthquakes and related tsunami that occurred there in March 2011. Specifically, some first and second quarter product shipments were cancelled or rescheduled for shipment during the subsequent quarter. We also incurred some minor damage to our production equipment during the first quarter of 2011. During the third quarter, the flooding in Thailand, while not directly affecting our facility, did impact some of our suppliers and customers. The impact to our operations and financial results as a result of the events in Japan and Thailand were not material. However, if natural disasters or other business disruptions result in cancellations of customer orders or contribute to a general decrease in economic activity or demand for our products or directly impact our manufacturing and logistics functions, our net sales and financial condition will be adversely affected. Furthermore, the operations of our suppliers could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, that could cause shortages and price increases in various essential materials, which are required to manufacture our products or to manufacture commercial memory die such as PSRAMs for incorporation into our multi-chip products (MCPs). If we are unable to procure an adequate supply of materials that are required for us to manufacture our products, or if the operations of our other suppliers of such materials are affected by an event that causes a significant business disruption, we may have to reduce our manufacturing operations. Such a reduction could have a material adverse effect on us. We may not satisfy the covenants, financial tests and ratios in our debt instruments, which if not met, would have a material adverse effect on us. Our credit agreement, or Senior Secured Term Loan (Term Loan) , our loan and security agreement, or Revolving Credit Facility, and the indenture governing our 7.875 % Senior Notes due 2017, or the Notes, require us to comply with covenants, financial tests and ratios. We cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy or comply with these covenants, financial tests and ratios, as our ability to do so may be affected by events beyond our control. If we fail to satisfy or comply with such covenants, financial tests and ratios, or if we disagree with our lenders about whether or not we are in compliance, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain waivers or amendments if required to avoid a default. A breach of any of the provisions, covenants, financial tests or ratios under our debt instruments could prevent us from borrowing under our Revolving Credit Facility and result in an event of default under the applicable agreement, which in turn could trigger cross-defaults under other debt instruments, any of which would materially adversely affect us. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks that could materially adversely affect us. We currently have, and plan in the future to enter into, foundry, subcontractor and other arrangements with third parties to meet demand for our products. Third-party manufacturers we currently use or expect to use in the future for foundry and other manufacturing services include Texas Instruments, or TI, Fujitsu Semiconductors Limited, or FSL, Elpida Memory, Inc., or Elpida, and Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation, or SMIC. We also use independent contractors to perform some of the assembly, testing and packaging of our products, including ChipMOS Technologies Limited. We depend on these manufacturers to allocate to us a portion of their manufacturing capacity sufficient to meet our needs. Third-party manufacturers are generally under no obligation to provide us with any specified minimum quantity of product. We also depend on these manufacturers to produce products of acceptable quality and at acceptable manufacturing yields and to deliver those products to us on a timely basis at acceptable prices. In addition, we rely on these manufacturers to invest capital into their facilities and process technologies to meet our needs for new products using advanced process technologies. Given our emergence in May 2010 from our Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings (the Chapter 11 15 Table of Contents Cases) and the volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets worldwide, we cannot assure you that they will make the investments in their facilities previously contemplated. We also cannot assure you that these manufacturers will be able to meet our near-term or long-term manufacturing requirements and that we will be able to attain qualification from our customers, which may be required prior to production of products at a third party facility. In addition, any significant change in the payment terms we have with these manufacturers could adversely affect us. Third party manufacturers with whom we contract also make products for other companies, including certain of our competitors, and/or for themselves and could choose to prioritize capacity for themselves or other customers beyond any minimum guaranteed amounts, reduce deliveries to us or, in the absence of price guarantees, increase the prices they charge us on short notice, such that we may not be able to pass cost increases on to our customers. The likelihood of this occurring may be greater as a result of the Chapter 11 Cases. We may be unable to secure an alternative supply for specific products in a short timeframe or at all at an acceptable cost to satisfy our production requirements. In addition, we may be required to incur additional development, manufacturing and other costs to establish alternative sources of supply. Other risks associated with our increased dependence on third-party manufacturers include: their ability to adapt to our proprietary technology, reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields and cost, misappropriation of our intellectual property, reduced ability to manage inventory and parts and risks associated with operating in foreign countries. If we are unable to secure sufficient or reliable suppliers of wafers or obtain the necessary assembly, testing and packaging services, our ability to meet customer demand for our products may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Unless we maintain manufacturing efficiency, we may not become profitable and our future profitability could be materially adversely affected. The Flash memory industry is characterized by rapid technological changes. For example, new manufacturing process technologies using smaller feature sizes and offering better performance characteristics are generally introduced every one to two years. The introduction of new manufacturing process technologies allows us to increase the functionality of our products while at the same time optimizing performance parameters and increasing storage capacity. In addition, the reduction of feature sizes enables us to produce smaller chips offering the same functionality and thereby considerably reducing the cost per bit. In order to remain competitive, it is essential that we secure the capabilities to develop and qualify new manufacturing process technologies. For example, our leading Flash memory products must be manufactured at 65-nanometer and more advanced process technologies. If we are delayed in transitioning to these technologies and other future technologies, we could be materially adversely affected. Manufacturing our products involves highly complex processes that require advanced equipment. Our manufacturing efficiency is an important factor in achieving profitability, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain or increase our manufacturing efficiency to the same extent as our competitors. For example, we continuously modify our manufacturing processes in an effort to improve yields and product performance and decrease costs. We are continuing to transition to 65-nanometer process technology for the manufacture of some of our products. During periods when we are implementing new process technologies, manufacturing facilities may not be fully productive. We may fail to achieve acceptable yields or may experience product delivery delays as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, delays in the development of new process technologies, changes in our process technologies, upgrades or expansion of existing facilities, impurities or other difficulties in the manufacturing process. Any of these occurrences could adversely impact our relationships with customers, cause harm to our reputation in the marketplace, cause customers to move future business to our competitors or cause us to make financial concessions to our customers. Improving our manufacturing efficiency in future periods is dependent on our ability to: • develop advanced process technologies and advanced products that utilize those technologies; 16 Table of Contents • successfully transition to advanced process technologies; • continue to reduce test times; • ramp product and process technology improvements rapidly and effectively to commercial volumes; • achieve acceptable levels of manufacturing wafer output and yields, which may decrease as we implement more advanced technologies; and • maintain our quality controls and rely upon the quality and process controls of our suppliers. Our ability to generate sufficient operating cash flows depends in part on maintaining our expense reduction efforts. Our business is capital intensive and our ability to generate operating cash flows depends in large part on the maintenance of a low cost strategy. As part of our strategy going forward, we intend to continue our cost reduction efforts which have included restructuring and technology partnerships. For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 and as part of a company-wide cost reduction program, we initiated a restructuring plan to align the business with current market conditions and to reduce operating expenses. The plan encompassed the consolidation of two test and assembly manufacturing operations in Asia and will result in the closure of our Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia facility, which we expect to be completed by the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2012. This and other cost reduction activities may require initial cash outlays before the anticipated benefits are realized. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve anticipated expense reductions. If our expense reduction efforts are unsuccessful, our operating results and business may be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, in certain instances our cost reductions may make it more difficult for us to succeed in the extremely competitive Flash memory market. If essential equipment or adequate supplies of satisfactory materials are not available to manufacture our products, we could be materially adversely affected. Our manufacturing operations depend upon obtaining deliveries of equipment and adequate supplies of materials on a timely basis. We purchase equipment and materials from a number of suppliers. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supply to us or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Because the equipment that we purchase is complex, it is difficult for us to substitute one supplier for another or one piece of equipment for another. Some raw materials we use in the manufacture of our products are available from a limited number of suppliers or only from a limited number of suppliers in a particular region. In addition, we purchase raw materials such as gold for which prices on the world markets have fluctuated significantly during recent periods. Our manufacturing operations also depend upon the quality and usability of the materials we use in our products, including raw materials and wafers we receive from our suppliers. If the materials we receive from our suppliers do not meet our manufacturing requirements or product specifications, are not obtained in a timely manner or if there are significant increases in costs of materials, we may be materially adversely affected. We also rely on purchasing commercial memory die such as PSRAM from third-party suppliers to incorporate these die into multi-chip package products. The availability of these third-party purchased commercial die is subject to market availability, and the process technology roadmaps and manufacturing capacities of our vendors. In addition, some of our suppliers may also be our competitors. Interruption of supply or increased demand in the industry could cause shortages and price increases in various essential materials. If we are unable to procure these materials, or if the materials we receive from our suppliers do not meet our production requirements or product specifications, we may have to reduce our manufacturing operations or our manufacturing yields may be adversely affected. Such a reduction and yield issues have in the past and could in the future have a material adverse effect on us. 17 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that we will have sufficient resources to invest in the level of research and development required to remain competitive or that our substantial research and development investments will lead to timely improvements in technology needed to successfully develop, introduce and commercialize new products and technologies. The Flash memory industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. In order to compete, we are required to make substantial investments in research and development for product design, process technologies and production techniques in an effort to design and manufacture advanced Flash memory products. For example, in connection with our business strategy, our research and development expenses for fiscal 2010 and 2011 were $100.5 million and $106.6 million or approximately 9 percent and 10 percent of our total net sales, respectively. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources independently or through joint development agreements to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required for us to remain competitive, which could materially adversely affect us. Our strategy is to increasingly seek to share research and development costs with third parties. For example, in 2009, we entered into a joint development agreement with Elpida for the development of products based on NAND architecture. However we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate such arrangements for more of our research and development needs, or that such arrangements will result in commercially successful technology and products in a timely manner or at all. We will be dependent on the third parties in such agreements to continue to invest financial and skilled human resources, and we cannot assure you that such third parties will make the necessary investments, the absence of which would materially adversely affect our business. Our success depends to a significant extent on our ability to develop, qualify, produce, introduce and gain market acceptance of new product designs and improvements that provide value to Flash memory customers. Our ability to develop and qualify new products and related technologies to meet evolving industry requirements at prices acceptable to our customers and on a timely basis is critical to our competitiveness in our target markets. If we are delayed in developing or qualifying new products or technologies, we could be materially adversely affected. Competitors may introduce new memory or other technologies that may make our Flash memory products uncompetitive or obsolete. Our competitors are working on a number of potentially competitive technologies, including ferroelectric random access memory, or FRAM, magneto resistive random access memory, or MRAM, polymer, charge trapping and phase-change based memory, or PCM, technologies. These technologies provide alternative means of non-volatile storage of information. Today, where products exist using these new technologies, they exhibit different characteristics than existing NOR Flash memory products based on MirrorBit or floating gate technology. These differences, including higher cost structure, inability to support higher densities, different performance and operating behavior, currently exclude such products from addressing volume markets for NOR Flash memory. For such products to be commercially viable and attractive alternatives to today’s NOR Flash memory solutions, they must either match the capabilities and characteristics at lower cost or provide additional capabilities desired and valued by customers. If such products are successfully developed and commercialized as a viable alternative to MirrorBit or floating gate NOR Flash memory, these other products could pose a competitive threat to existing Flash memory companies, including us. In addition, some of the licensees and customers of Saifun Semiconductors Ltd., or Saifun, which we purchased in 2008 and renamed Spansion Israel Ltd., are our competitors or work with our competitors and possess licenses from Spansion Israel Ltd. for intellectual property associated with charge trapping Flash memory technology. Use of this charge trapping intellectual property or use of independently developed charge trapping Flash memory technology by our competitors, if successfully developed and commercialized, may allow these competitors to develop Flash memory products that may compete with our products based on charge trapping technology. If we are unable to compete with these new technologies, we may be materially adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents Our working capital, investments and capital requirements may require us to seek additional financing, which may not be available to us. Our debt instruments may not be sufficient for our future working capital, investments and capital requirements. We also may not be able to access additional financing resources due to a variety of reasons, including the restrictive covenants in the Term Loan, the Revolving Credit Facility and the Notes indenture and the lack of available capital due to the tight nature of global credit markets. If our financing requirements are not met and we are unable to access additional financing, our business, operations, financial condition and cash flows will be materially adversely affected. If we cannot adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property in the United States and abroad, through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks, litigation and other measures, we may lose a competitive advantage and incur significant expenses as a result of litigation and other claims. We rely on a combination of protections provided by contracts, including confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements, copyrights, patents, trademarks and common law rights, such as trade secrets, to protect our intellectual property. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property from third-party infringement or from misappropriation in the United States and abroad. Any patent owned or licensed by us or issued to us could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or rights granted under these patents or licenses may not provide a competitive advantage to us. Furthermore, patent applications that we file may not result in issuance of a patent or, if a patent is issued, the patent may not be issued in a form that is advantageous to us. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, others may independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around our patents and other intellectual property rights. In addition, it is difficult to monitor compliance with, and enforce, our intellectual property rights on a worldwide basis in a cost-effective manner. Foreign laws may provide less intellectual property protection than is afforded in the United States. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property in the United States and abroad through lawsuits may be time-consuming and costly. We expect to attempt to negotiate agreements and arrangements with third parties for the license of intellectual property and technology that are important to our business. We also expect to continue to apply for new patents as our success in negotiating patent cross-license agreements with other industry participants will depend in large part upon the strength of our patent portfolio relative to that of the third party with which we are negotiating. In 2011, we successfully settled our litigation with Samsung and negotiated a cross-license agreement with Samsung, but we can give no assurances that we will be successful in other litigation or negotiations. If we are unable to negotiate agreements or arrangements for intellectual property, or to obtain patents, necessary for the success of our business, we may be materially adversely affected. We provide indemnities relating to non-infringement of patents and other intellectual property indemnities to certain of our customers in connection with the delivery, design, manufacture and sale of our products. If we incur substantial costs in connection with any claim pursuant to such indemnification, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If we cannot adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property rights in the United States and abroad, we may be materially adversely affected. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to our information technology systems, we may lose proprietary data. Our security measures may be breached as a result of third-party action, including computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and result in unauthorized access to our customers’ data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, or our information technology systems. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently, 19 Table of Contents we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any security breach could result in disclosure of our trade secrets, confidential customer, supplier or employee data, which could result in legal liability, harm to our reputation and otherwise harm our business. Our stock price may be volatile, and stockholders may lose all or part of their investment. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and may in the future be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many risk factors listed in this section, and others beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated changes in our operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived to be comparable to us; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, divestitures, joint ventures or other strategic initiatives; and • stock price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels or other factors. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of shares of our common stock. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could materially adversely affect us. Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our results of operations and cause us to change our business practices. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in those policies or other requirements with respect to the reporting of financial statements can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. For example, the SEC has released a proposed roadmap regarding the potential use by U.S. issuers of financial statements prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS. Under the proposed roadmap, we may be required to prepare financial statements in accordance with IFRS. The SEC announced it will not make a determination until 2012 regarding the mandatory adoption of these new standards. It is unclear at this time how the Commission will propose GAAP and IFRS be harmonized if the proposed changes are adopted. If adopted, we will need to develop new systems and controls around IFRS principles. Since this would be a new endeavor, the specific costs associated with this conversion are uncertain and could have a material impact on our results of operations. Transfers or issuances of our equity, or a debt restructuring, may impair or reduce our ability to utilize our net operating loss carry-forwards and certain other tax attributes in the future. Pursuant to U.S. tax rules, a corporation is generally permitted to deduct from taxable income in any year net operating losses (NOLs) carried forward from prior years. We have NOL carry forwards in the United States 20 Table of Contents of approximately $1.0 billion as of December 25, 2011. Our ability to utilize these NOL carry forwards could be subject to a significant limitation if we were to undergo an “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Our success depends on our key personnel and the loss of key personnel could disrupt our business. Our success greatly depends on the continued contributions of our senior management and other key research and development, sales, marketing and operations personnel. In addition, our success will depend on our ability to recruit and retain additional highly-skilled personnel. The Chapter 11 Cases have made recruiting, hiring and retention even a greater challenge. We have relied on equity awards in the form of stock options and restricted stock units as one means for recruiting and retaining highly skilled talent and the reduction in our stock price has reduced the effectiveness of those awards used for retaining employees. The loss of key personnel could disrupt or adversely affect our business. Costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on us. One or more of our products may be found to be defective or we may initiate voluntary recalls of products after they have been shipped to customers in volume. We generally provide a limited warranty with respect to our products. Accordingly, if we recall products or are forced to replace defective products, the cost of product replacements or product returns may be substantial, and our reputation with our customers could be damaged. In addition, we could incur substantial costs to implement modifications to fix defects. Any of these problems could materially adversely affect us. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws that could result in liabilities. Our properties and many aspects of our business operations are subject to various domestic and international environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to materials used in our products and manufacturing processes; chemical use and handling; waste minimization; discharge of pollutants into the environment; the treatment, transport, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes; and remediation of contamination. Certain of these laws and regulations require us to obtain permits for our operations, including permits related to the discharge of air pollutants and wastewater. From time to time, our facilities are subject to investigation by governmental regulators. Any failure to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations or permits may subject us to a range of consequences, including fines, suspension of production, alteration of manufacturing processes, sales limitations, and criminal and civil liabilities or other sanctions. We could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of exposure to hazardous materials used, stored, released, disposed of by us or located at or under our facilities, or for other environmental or natural resource damage. Certain environmental laws, including the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or the Superfund Act, impose joint and several liabilities on current and previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances and costs related to damages to natural resources. One of our properties is listed on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Superfund National Priorities List. However, other parties currently are responsible for all investigation, cleanup and remediation activities. We have not been named a responsible party at any Superfund or other contaminated site. If we were ever so named, costs associated with the cleanup of the site could be material. Additionally, contamination that has not yet been identified could exist at one or more of our facilities, and identification of such contamination could have a material adverse effect on us. Future environmental regulations could require us to procure expensive pollution abatement or remediation equipment; to modify product designs; or to incur other expenses associated with compliance with such regulations. For example, the European Union and China recently began imposing stricter requirements regarding reduced lead content in semiconductor packaging. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, or liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, will not have a material adverse effect on our business. 21 Table of Contents Provisions in our corporate governance documents as well as Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us that stockholders may consider favorable, which could decrease the value of your shares. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to remove directors, a classified board of directors and limitations on action by our stockholders by written consent. In addition, our board of directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to make an acquisition of us more difficult. Although we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics and thereby provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 