ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Need for Additional Capital We have incurred significant losses since our inception. We expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future and may never achieve or maintain profitability. Since our inception in December 2003, we have incurred significant operating losses. Our net loss applicable to common stockholders was approximately $27.0 million for the year ended September 30, 2007. As of September 30, 2007, we had a deficit accumulated during the development stage of approximately $39.8 million. We have devoted substantially all of our time, money and efforts to the research and development of VIAjecttm, VIAtabtm and our preclinical product candidates. We have not completed development of any drugs. We expect to continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses for at least the next several years. We anticipate that our expenses will increase substantially as we: • continue our ongoing Phase III clinical trials of VIAjecttm in which we plan to treat 400 patients with Type 1 diabetes and 400 patients with Type 2 diabetes over a six-month period; • conduct additional Phase I clinical development of VIAtabtm and subsequently initiate Phase II and Phase III clinical trials; • continue the research and development of our preclinical product candidates, VIAmasstm and VIAcaltm, and advance those product candidates into clinical development; • seek regulatory approvals for our product candidates that successfully complete clinical trials; • establish a sales and marketing infrastructure to commercialize products for which we may obtain regulatory approval; and • add operational, financial and management information systems and personnel, including personnel to support our product development efforts and our obligations as a public company. To become and remain profitable, we must succeed in developing and eventually commercializing drugs with significant market potential. This will require us to be successful in a range of challenging activities, including successfully completing preclinical testing and clinical trials of our product candidates, obtaining regulatory approval for these product candidates and manufacturing, marketing and selling those products for which we may obtain regulatory approval. We are only in the preliminary stages of these activities. We may never succeed in these activities and may never generate revenues that are significant or large enough to achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our failure to become and remain profitable would depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business or continue our 22 Table of Contents operations. A decline in the market price of our common stock could also cause you to lose all or a part of your investment. We will need substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. We are a development stage company with no commercial products. All of our product candidates are still being developed, and all but VIAjecttm are in early stages of development. Our product candidates will require significant additional development, clinical development, regulatory approvals and additional investment before they can be commercialized. We anticipate that VIAjecttm will not be commercially available for several years, if at all. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in connection with our ongoing activities, particularly as we continue our Phase III clinical trials of VIAjecttm, commence later stage clinical trials of VIAtabtm if our Phase I clinical development is successful and conduct preclinical testing of VIAmasstm and VIAcaltm. In addition, subject to obtaining regulatory approval of any of our product candidates, we expect to incur significant commercialization expenses for product sales, marketing, securing commercial quantities of product from our manufacturers and distribution. We will need substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed or on attractive terms, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development programs or commercialization efforts. Based upon our current plans, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents will enable us to fund our anticipated operating expenses and capital expenditures for at least the next eighteen months. However, we cannot assure you that our plans will not change or that changed circumstances will not result in the depletion of our capital resources more rapidly than we currently anticipate. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the progress and results of our clinical trials of VIAjecttm and VIAtabtm; • the progress of the development of the full line of VIAjecttm insulin products; • the scope, progress, results and costs of preclinical development, laboratory testing and clinical trials for VIAmasstm, VIAcaltm and other potential product candidates; • the costs, timing and outcome of regulatory review of our product candidates; • the costs of commercialization activities, including product marketing, sales and distribution; • the costs of preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications and maintaining, enforcing and defending intellectual property-related claims; • the emergence of competing technologies and products and other adverse market developments; • the effect on our product development activities of actions taken by the FDA or other regulatory authorities; • our degree of success in commercializing VIAjecttm and our other product candidates; and • our ability to establish and maintain collaborations and the terms and success of the collaborations, including the timing and amount of payments that we might receive from potential strategic collaborators. Until such time, if ever, as we can generate substantial product revenues, we expect to finance our cash needs through public or private equity offerings and debt financings, strategic collaborations and licensing arrangements. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity securities, our stockholders will experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. Any debt financing or additional equity that we raise may contain terms, such as liquidation and other preferences, that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. If we raise additional funds 23 Table of Contents through collaboration, strategic alliance and licensing arrangements with third parties, it may be necessary to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or product candidates, future revenue streams, research programs or product candidates or to grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. Our short operating history may make it difficult for you to evaluate the success of our business to date and to assess our future viability. We commenced active operations in January 2004. Our operations to date have been limited to organizing and staffing our company, developing and securing our technology and undertaking preclinical studies and clinical trials of our most advanced product candidates, VIAjecttm and VIAtabtm. We have not yet demonstrated our ability to successfully complete large-scale, pivotal clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals, manufacture a commercial scale product, or arrange for a third party to do so on our behalf, or conduct sales and marketing activities necessary for successful product commercialization. Consequently, any predictions you make about our future success or viability may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history. In addition, as a new business, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other known and unknown factors. We will need to transition from a company with a research focus to a company capable of supporting commercial activities. We may not be successful in such a transition. Risks Related to the Development and Commercialization of Our Product Candidates We depend heavily on the success of our most advanced product candidate, VIAjecttm. VIAtabtm is our only other product candidate which has undergone clinical development. We do not expect to advance any other product candidates into clinical trials any earlier than late 2008. Clinical trials of our product candidates may not be successful. If we are unable to commercialize VIAjecttm and VIAtabtm, or experience significant delays in doing so, our business will be materially harmed. We have invested a significant portion of our efforts and financial resources in the development of our most advanced product candidates, VIAjecttm and VIAtabtm. Our ability to generate product revenues, which we do not expect will occur for at least the next several years, if ever, will depend heavily on the successful development and eventual commercialization of these product candidates. The commercial success of our product candidates will depend on several factors, including the following: • successful completion of preclinical development and clinical trials; • our ability to identify and enroll patients who meet clinical trial eligibility criteria; • receipt of marketing approvals from the FDA and similar regulatory authorities outside the United States; • establishing commercial manufacturing arrangements with third-party manufacturers; • launching commercial sales of the products, whether alone or in collaboration with others; • acceptance of the products by patients, the medical community and third-party payors in the medical community; • competition from other products; and • a continued acceptable safety profile of the products following approval. If we are not successful in completing the development and commercialization of our product candidates, or if we are significantly delayed in doing so, our business will be materially harmed. The results of early stage clinical trials do not ensure success in later stage clinical trials. To date, we have not completed the development of any products through commercialization. VIAjecttm is currently being tested in two Phase III clinical trials in patients with Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes. If these trials are successful, we intend to submit an NDA under Section 505(b)(2) of the FFDCA to the FDA by the 24 Table of Contents end of 2008. We are currently in the Phase I stage of clinical testing of VIAtabtm in patients with Type 1 diabetes. If Phase I clinical development of VIAtabtm is successful, we plan to initiate a Phase II clinical trial no earlier than the end of 2008. The outcome of preclinical testing and early clinical trials may not be predictive of the success of later clinical trials. Furthermore, interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. For example, the two interim results of our Phase II meal study of VIAjecttm were based on data from the first 10 patients that completed the trial in time for presentation at the American Diabetes Association 2007 Annual Meeting and then 16 patients that completed the study. The final results of this trial may be different from those suggested by our interim analyses. Similarly, the final results from our Phase III clinical trials of VIAjecttm may be different than those observed to date. In addition, the final safety and efficacy data from our Phase III clinical trials of VIAjecttm, which will be based on 400 Type 1 and 400 Type 2 diabetes patients, may be less favorable than the data observed to date in our Phase I and Phase II clinical trials. We cannot assure you that our clinical trials of VIAjecttm or VIAtabtm will ultimately be successful. New information regarding the safety and efficacy of VIAjecttm or VIAtabtm may arise from our continuing analysis of the data that may be less favorable than the data observed to date. In our clinical trials to date, patients took VIAjecttm for a relatively small number of treatment days. VIAjecttm may not be found to be effective or safe when taken for longer periods, such as the six-month period of our Phase III clinical trials. Even if our early phase clinical trials are successful, we will need to complete our Phase III clinical trials of VIAjecttm and conduct Phase II and Phase III clinical trials of VIAtabtm in larger numbers of patients taking the drug for longer periods before we are able to seek approvals to market and sell these product candidates from the FDA and similar regulatory authorities outside the United States. If we are not successful in commercializing any of our product candidates, or are significantly delayed in doing so, our business will be materially harmed. If our clinical trials are delayed or do not produce positive results, we may incur additional costs and ultimately be unable to commercialize our product candidates. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of our product candidates, we must conduct, at our own expense, extensive preclinical tests to demonstrate the safety of our product candidates in animals and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in humans. Preclinical and clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. A failure of one or more of our clinical trials of VIAjecttm and VIAtabtm can occur at any stage of testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, preclinical testing of VIAmasstm and VIAcaltm and clinical trials of VIAjecttm and VIAtabtm that could delay or prevent our ability to receive regulatory approval or commercialize our product candidates, including: • our preclinical tests or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical testing or clinical trials or we may abandon projects that we had expected to be promising; • the number of patients required for our clinical trials may be larger than we anticipate, enrollment in our clinical trials may be slower than we currently anticipate, or participants may drop out of our clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipate, any of which would result in significant delays; • our third-party contractors may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner; • we might have to suspend or terminate our clinical trials if the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; • regulators or institutional review boards may require that we hold, suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements; • the cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we anticipate; • the supply or quality of our product candidates or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials may be insufficient or inadequate; and 25 Table of Contents • the effects of our product candidates may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or the product candidates may have other unexpected characteristics. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of our product candidates beyond those that we currently contemplate, if we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trials or other testing, if the results of these trials or tests are not positive or are only modestly positive or if there are safety concerns, we may: • be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for our product candidates; • not be able to obtain marketing approval; • obtain approval for indications that are not as broad as intended; or • have the product removed from the market after obtaining marketing approval. Our product development costs will also increase if we experience delays in testing or approvals. We do not know whether any preclinical tests or clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Significant preclinical or clinical trial delays also could shorten any periods during which we may have the exclusive right to commercialize our product candidates or allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our products or product candidates and may harm our business and results of operations. If our product candidates are found to cause undesirable side effects we may need to delay or abandon our development and commercialization efforts. Any undesirable side effects that might be caused by our product candidates could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications. In addition, if any of our product candidates receive marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product, we could face one or more of the following: • a change in the labeling statements or withdrawal of FDA or other regulatory approval of the product; • a change in the way the product is administered; or • the need to conduct additional clinical trials. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the product, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from its sale. The major safety concern with patients taking insulin is the occurrence of hypoglycemic events, which we monitor on a daily basis in our clinical trials. As of March 12, 2007, we have had a total of 113 mild and moderate hypoglycemic events in our Phase III clinical trials, 73 in patients receiving Humulin® R and 40 in patients receiving VIAjecttm. As of that date, we have also had a total of four severe hypoglycemic events, three in patients receiving Humulin® R and one in a patient receiving VIAjecttm. The commercial success of any product candidates that we may develop, including VIAjecttm, VIAtabtm, VIAmasstm and VIAcaltm will depend upon the degree of market acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in the medical community. Any products that we bring to the market, including VIAjecttm, VIAtabtm, VIAmasstm and VIAcaltm, if they receive marketing approval, may not gain market acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in the medical community. If these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate significant product revenues and we may not become profitable. Physicians will not recommend our product candidates until clinical data or other factors demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates as compared to other treatments. Even if the clinical safety and efficacy of our product candidates is established, physicians may elect not to recommend these product candidates for a variety of 26 Table of Contents factors, including the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors and the effectiveness of our competitors in marketing their products. The degree of market acceptance of our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: • the willingness and ability of patients and the healthcare community to adopt our technology; • the ability to manufacture our product candidates in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality and to offer our product candidates for sale at competitive prices; • the perception of patients and the healthcare community, including third-party payors, regarding the safety, efficacy and benefits of our product candidates compared to those of competing products or therapies; • the convenience and ease of administration of our product candidates relative to existing treatment methods; • the pricing and reimbursement of our product candidates relative to existing treatments; and • marketing and distribution support for our product candidates. If we fail to enter into strategic collaborations for the commercialization of our product candidates or if our collaborations are unsuccessful, we may be required to establish our own sales, marketing, manufacturing and distribution capabilities which will be expensive and could delay the commercialization of our product candidates and have a material and adverse affect on our business. A broad base of physicians, including primary care physicians, internists and endocrinologists, treat patients with diabetes. A large sales force is required to educate and support these physicians. Therefore, our current strategy for developing, manufacturing and commercializing our product candidates includes securing collaborations with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for the commercialization of our product candidates. To date, we have not entered into any collaborations with pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. In addition, collaboration agreements are complex and time-consuming to negotiate, document and implement. For all these reasons, it may be difficult for us to find third parties that are willing to enter into collaborations on economic terms that are favorable to us, or at all. If we do enter into any such collaboration, the collaboration may not be successful. The success of our collaboration arrangements will depend heavily on the efforts and activities of our collaborators. It is likely that our collaborators will have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations. If we fail to enter into collaborations, or if our collaborations are unsuccessful, we may be required to establish our own direct sales, marketing, manufacturing and distribution capabilities. Establishing these capabilities can be time-consuming and expensive and we have little experience in doing so. Because of our size, we would be at a disadvantage to our potential competitors to the extent they collaborate with large pharmaceutical companies that have substantially more resources than we do. As a result, we would not initially be able to field a sales force as large as our competitors or provide the same degree of market research or marketing support. In addition, our competitors would have a greater ability to devote research resources toward expansion of the indications for their products. We cannot assure prospective investors that we will succeed in entering into acceptable collaborations, that any such collaboration will be successful or, if not, that we will successfully develop our own sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. If we are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from governments or third-party payors for any products that we may develop or if we are unable to obtain acceptable prices for those products, they may not be purchased or used and our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer. Our future revenues and profits will depend heavily upon the availability of adequate reimbursement for the use of our approved product candidates from governmental and other third-party payors, both in the United 27 Table of Contents States and in other markets. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including the third-party payor’s determination that use of a product is: • a covered benefit under its health plan; • safe, effective and medically necessary; • appropriate for the specific patient; • cost-effective; and • neither experimental nor investigational. Obtaining reimbursement approval for a product from each government or other third-party payor is a time-consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our products to each payor. We may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to reimbursement. Even when a payor determines that a product is eligible for reimbursement, the payor may impose coverage limitations that preclude payment for some uses that are approved by the FDA or comparable authorities. In addition, eligibility for coverage does not imply that any product will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that allows us to make a profit or even cover our costs. Interim payments for new products, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not be made permanent. We are subject to pricing pressures and uncertainties regarding Medicare reimbursement and reform. Recent reforms in Medicare added a prescription drug reimbursement benefit beginning in 2006 for all Medicare beneficiaries. Although we cannot predict the full effects on our business of the implementation of this legislation, it is possible that the new benefit, which will be managed by private health insurers, pharmacy benefit managers, and other managed care organizations, will result in decreased reimbursement for prescription drugs, which may further exacerbate industry-wide pressure to reduce the prices charged for prescription drugs. This could harm our ability to generate revenues. Governments outside the United States tend to impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our revenues, if any. In some countries, particularly the countries of the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product candidate to other available therapies. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be adversely affected. Legislation has been introduced into Congress that, if enacted, would permit more widespread re-importation of drugs from foreign countries into the United States, which may include re-importation from foreign countries where the drugs are sold at lower prices than in the United States. Such legislation, or similar regulatory changes, could decrease the price we receive for any approved products which, in turn, could adversely affect our operating results and our overall financial condition. Product liability lawsuits against us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to limit commercialization of any products that we may develop. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials and will face an even greater risk if we commercially sell any products that we may develop. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against claims that our product candidates or products 28 Table of Contents caused injuries, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for any product candidates or products that we may develop; • injury to our reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs to defend the related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients; • loss of revenue; and • the inability to commercialize any products that we may develop. We currently carry global liability insurance that we believe is sufficient to cover us from potential damages arising from proposed clinical trials of VIAjecttm. We also carry local insurance policies per clinical trial of our product candidates. The amount of insurance that we currently hold may not be adequate to cover all liabilities that we may incur. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for any products. Insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost. If losses from product liability claims exceed our liability insurance coverage, we may ourselves incur substantial liabilities. If we are required to pay a product liability claim, we may not have sufficient financial resources to complete development or commercialization of any of our product candidates and, if so, our business and results of operations would be harmed. We face substantial competition in the development of our product candidates which may result in others developing or commercializing products before or more successfully than we do. We are engaged in segments of the pharmaceutical industry that are characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology. Many large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are pursuing the development of novel drugs that target endocrine disorders. We face, and expect to continue to face, intense and increasing competition as new products enter the market and advanced technologies become available. There are several approved injectable rapid-acting meal-time insulin analogs currently on the market including Humalog®, marketed by Eli Lilly and Company, NovoLog®, marketed by Novo Nordisk A/S, and Apidra®, marketed by Sanofi-Aventis. These rapid-acting insulin analogs provide improvement over regular forms of short-acting insulin, including faster subcutaneous absorption, an earlier and greater insulin peak and more rapid post-peak decrease. Emisphere Technologies, Inc. is developing oral insulin in pill form. Emisphere is still in early-stage preclinical trials of its oral tablet. Generex has developed an oral spray that is currently in Phase II development. Several companies are also developing alternative insulin systems for diabetes, including Novo Nordisk, Eli Lilly and Company in collaboration with Alkermes, Inc., MannKind Corporation, Emisphere Technologies, Inc. and Aradigm Corporation. In addition, a number of established pharmaceutical companies, including GlaxoSmithKline plc and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, are developing proprietary technologies or have entered into arrangements with, or acquired, companies with technologies for the treatment of diabetes. Potential competitors also include academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations that conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and commercialization. Our competitors may develop products that are more effective, safer, more convenient or less costly than any that we are developing or that would render our product candidates obsolete or non-competitive. Our competitors may also obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their products more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours. Many of our potential competitors have: • significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than we have and may be better equipped to discover, develop, manufacture and commercialize product candidates; 29 Table of Contents • more extensive experience in preclinical testing and clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products; • product candidates that have been approved or are in late-stage clinical development; or • collaborative arrangements in our target markets with leading companies and research institutions. Our product candidates may be rendered obsolete by technological change. The rapid rate of scientific discoveries and technological changes could result in one or more of our product candidates becoming obsolete or noncompetitive. For several decades, scientists have attempted to improve the bioavailability of injected formulations and to devise alternative non-invasive delivery systems for the delivery of drugs such as insulin. Our product candidates will compete against many products with similar indications. In addition to the currently marketed rapid-acting insulin analogs, our competitors are developing insulin formulations delivered by oral pills, pulmonary devices and oral spray devices. Our future success will depend not only on our ability to develop our product candidates, but also on our ability to maintain market acceptance against emerging industry developments. We cannot assure present or prospective stockholders that we will be able to do so. Our business activities involve the storage and use of hazardous materials, which require compliance with environmental and occupational safety laws regulating the use of such materials. If we violate these laws, we could be subject to significant fines, liabilities or other adverse consequences. Our research and development work and manufacturing processes involve the controlled storage and use of hazardous materials, including chemical and biological materials. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials and waste products comply in all material respects with the standards prescribed by federal, state and local laws and regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident or failure to comply with environmental laws, we could be held liable for any damages that may result, and any such liability could fall outside the coverage or exceed the limits of our insurance. In addition, we could be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future or pay substantial fines or penalties if we violate any of these laws or regulations. Finally, current or future environmental laws and regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties Use of third parties to manufacture our product candidates may increase the risks that we will not have sufficient quantities of our product candidates or such quantities at an acceptable cost, or that our suppliers will not be able to manufacture our products in their final dosage form. In any such case, clinical development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed, prevented or impaired. We do not own or operate manufacturing facilities for commercial production of our product candidates. We have limited experience in drug manufacturing and we lack the resources and the capabilities to manufacture any of our product candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. Our strategy is to outsource all manufacturing of our product candidates and products to third parties. We also expect to rely upon third parties to produce materials required for the commercial production of our product candidates if we succeed in obtaining necessary regulatory approvals. Although we have contracted with a large commercial manufacturer for VIAjecttm, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully with our remaining product candidates. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques, processes and quality controls. 30 Table of Contents Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured product candidates or products ourselves, including: • reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance; • the possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our control; and • the possible termination or nonrenewal of the agreement by the third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. Our manufacturers may not be able to comply with cGMP regulations or other regulatory requirements or similar regulatory requirements outside the United States. Our manufacturers are subject to unannounced inspections by the FDA, state regulators and similar regulators outside the United States. Our failure, or the failure of our third-party manufacturers, to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our product candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product candidates or products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect supplies of our product candidates. Our product candidates and any products that we may develop may compete with other product candidates and products for access to manufacturing facilities. There are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under cGMP regulations and that are both capable of manufacturing for us and willing to do so. If the third parties that we engage to manufacture product for our clinical trials should cease to continue to do so for any reason, we likely would experience delays in advancing these trials while we identify and qualify replacement suppliers and we may be unable to obtain replacement supplies on terms that are favorable to us. In addition, if we are not able to obtain adequate supplies of our product candidates or the drug substances used to manufacture them, it will be more difficult for us to develop our product candidates and compete effectively. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon others for the manufacture of our product candidates may adversely affect our future profit margins and our ability to develop product candidates and commercialize any products that receive regulatory approval on a timely and competitive basis. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such trials. We do not independently conduct clinical trials for our product candidates. We rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, clinical data management organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators, to enroll qualified patients and conduct our clinical trials. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. We are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial. Moreover, the FDA requires us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as Good Clinical Practices, for conducting, recording, and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. Our reliance on third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. Furthermore, these third parties may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, meet expected deadlines or conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols, we will not be able to obtain, or may be delayed in obtaining, regulatory approvals for our product candidates and will not be able to, or may be delayed in our efforts to, successfully commercialize our product candidates. If our suppliers, principally our sole insulin supplier, fail to deliver materials and provide services needed for the production of VIAjecttm and VIAtabtm in a timely and sufficient manner, or if they fail to comply 31 Table of Contents with applicable regulations, clinical development or regulatory approval of our product candidates or commercialization of our products could be delayed, producing additional losses and depriving us of potential product revenue. We need access to sufficient, reliable and affordable supplies of recombinant human insulin and other materials for which we rely on various suppliers. We also must rely on those suppliers to comply with relevant regulatory and other legal requirements, including the production of insulin in accordance with cGMP. We can make no assurances that our suppliers, particularly our insulin supplier, will comply with cGMP. We currently have an agreement with a single insulin supplier that is responsible for providing all of the insulin that we use for testing and manufacturing VIAjecttm and VIAtabtm. If supply of recombinant human insulin and other materials becomes limited, or if our supplier does not meet relevant regulatory requirements, and if we were unable to obtain these materials in sufficient amounts, in a timely manner and at reasonable prices, we could be delayed in the manufacturing and future commercialization of VIAjecttm and VIAtabtm. We would incur substantial costs and manufacturing delays if our suppliers are unable to provide us with products or services approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitors may develop and market similar or identical products that may reduce demand for our products, and we may be prevented from establishing collaborative relationships on favorable terms. The following factors are important to our success: • receiving patent protection for our product candidates; • maintaining our trade secrets; • not infringing on the proprietary rights of others; and • preventing others from infringing on our proprietary rights. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We try to protect our proprietary position by filing U.S. and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. Because the patent position of pharmaceutical companies involves complex legal and factual questions, the issuance, scope and enforceability of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. Patents, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Thus, any patents that we own or license from others may not provide any protection against competitors. We have been granted one patent and have ten pending United States patent applications relating to our VIAdeltm, VIAjecttm and VIAtabtm technology. These pending patent applications, those we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties, may not result in patents being issued. If patents do not issue with claims encompassing our products, our competitors may develop and market similar or identical products that compete with ours. Even if patents are issued, they may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. Failure to obtain effective patent protection for our technology and products may reduce demand for our products and prevent us from establishing collaborative relationships on favorable terms. The active and inactive ingredients in our VIAjecttm and VIAtabtm product candidates have been known and used for many years and, therefore, are no longer subject to patent protection. Accordingly, our pending patent applications are directed to the particular formulations of these ingredients in our products, and their use. Although we believe our formulations and their use are patentable and provide a competitive advantage, even if issued, our patents may not prevent others from marketing formulations using the same active and inactive ingredients in similar but different formulations. 32 Table of Contents We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology, which are not protected by patents, to maintain our competitive position. We try to protect this information by entering into confidentiality agreements with parties that have access to it, such as potential corporate partners, collaborators, employees and consultants. Any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our confidential information or our competitors may learn of the information in some other way. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology that we have developed. If any trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The laws of many foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We may become involved in lawsuits and administrative proceedings to protect, defend or enforce our patents that would be expensive and time-consuming. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties in the United States or in foreign countries. In addition, we may be subject to certain opposition proceedings conducted in patent and trademark offices challenging the validity of our patents and may become involved in future opposition proceedings challenging the patents of others. The defense of intellectual property rights, including patent rights, through lawsuits, interference or opposition proceedings, and other legal and administrative proceedings can be costly and can divert our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. Such costs increase our operating losses and reduce our resources available for development activities. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. For example, during the course of this kind of litigation and despite protective orders entered by the court, confidential information may be inadvertently disclosed in the form of documents or testimony in connection with discovery requests, depositions or trial testimony. This disclosure could materially adversely affect our business and financial results. Claims by other parties that we infringe or have misappropriated their proprietary technology may result in liability for damages, royalties, or other payments, or stop our development and commercialization efforts. Competitors and other third parties may initiate patent litigation against us in the United States or in foreign countries based on existing patents or patents that may be granted in the future. Many of our competitors may have obtained patents covering products and processes generally related to our products and processes, and they may assert these patents against us. Moreover, there can be no assurance that these competitors have not sought or will not seek additional patents that may cover aspects of our technology. As a result, there is a greater likelihood of a patent dispute than would be expected if our competitors were pursuing unrelated technologies. While we conduct patent searches to determine whether the technologies used in our products infringe patents held by third parties, numerous patent applications are currently pending and may be filed in the future for technologies generally related to our technologies, including many patent applications that remain confidential after filing. Due to these factors and the inherent uncertainty in conducting patent searches, there can be no guarantee that we will not violate third-party patent rights that we have not yet identified. There may be U.S. and foreign patents issued to third parties that relate to aspects of our product candidates. There may also be patent applications filed by these or other parties in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions that relate to some aspects of our product candidates, which, if issued, could subject us to infringement actions. The owners or licensees of these and other patents may file one or more infringement actions against us. In addition, a competitor may claim misappropriation of a trade secret by an 33 Table of Contents employee hired from that competitor. Any such infringement or misappropriation action could cause us to incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit and could distract our management from our business, even if the allegations of infringement or misappropriation are unwarranted. A need to defend multiple actions or claims could have a disproportionately greater impact. In addition, either in response to or in anticipation of any such infringement or misappropriation claim, we may enter into commercial agreements with the owners or licensees of these rights. The terms of these commercial agreements may include substantial payments, including substantial royalty payments on revenues received by us in connection with the commercialization of our products. Payments under such agreements could increase our operating losses and reduce our resources available for development activities. Furthermore, a party making this type of claim could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages, which would increase our operating losses and reduce our resources available for development activities. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from making, using, selling, offering for sale or importing our products or prevent our customers from using our products. If a court determined or if we independently concluded that any of our products or manufacturing processes violated third-party proprietary rights, our clinical trials could be delayed and there can be no assurance that we would be able to reengineer the product or processes to avoid those rights, or to obtain a license under those rights on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Risks Related to Regulatory Approval of Our Product Candidates If we are not able to obtain required regulatory approvals, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates, and our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired. Our product candidates, and the activities associated with their development and commercialization, including their testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, recordkeeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution, are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. Failure to obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate will prevent us from commercializing the product candidate. We have not received regulatory approval to market any of our product candidates in any jurisdiction. Securing FDA approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information to the FDA for each therapeutic indication to establish the product candidate’s safety and efficacy. Securing FDA approval also requires the submission of information about the product manufacturing process to, and inspection of manufacturing facilities by, the FDA. Our future products may not be demonstrated effective, may be demonstrated only moderately effective or may prove to have undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities or other characteristics that may preclude our obtaining regulatory approval or may prevent or limit commercial use. The process of obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals is expensive, often takes many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon a variety of factors, including the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates involved, the nature of the disease or condition to be treated and challenges by competitors. Changes in regulatory approval policies during the development period, changes in or the enactment of additional statutes or regulations, or changes in regulatory review for each submitted product application, may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that our data is insufficient for approval and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies. In addition, varying agency interpretations of the data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of a product candidate. Any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the approved product not commercially viable. 34 Table of Contents If the FDA does not believe that our product candidates satisfy the requirements for the Section 505(b)(2) approval procedure, the approval pathway will take longer and cost more than anticipated and in either case may not be successful. We believe that VIAjecttm and VIAtabtm qualify for approval under Section 505(b)(2) of the FFDCA. Because we are developing new formulations of previously approved chemical entities, such as insulin, this may enable us to avoid having to submit certain types of data and studies that are required in full NDAs and instead submit a Section 505(b)(2) NDA. The FDA may not agree that our products are approvable under Section 505(b)(2). Insulin is a unique and complex drug in that it is a complex hormone molecule that is more difficult to replicate and has more complex and unpredictable effects in the body than many small molecule drugs. The availability of the Section 505(b)(2) pathway for insulin is even more controversial than for small molecule drugs, and the FDA may not accept this pathway for our insulin product candidates. The FDA has not published any guidance that specifically addresses insulin Section 505(b)(2) NDAs. No other insulin product has yet been approved under a Section 505(b)(2) NDA. If the FDA determines that Section 505(b)(2) NDAs are not appropriate and that full NDAs are required for our product candidates, the time and financial resources required to obtain FDA approval for our product candidates could substantially and materially increase. This would require us to obtain substantially more funding than previously anticipated which could significantly dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders. Even with this investment, the prospect for FDA approval may be significantly lower. If the FDA requires full NDAs for our product candidates or requires more extensive testing and development for some other reason, our ability to compete with alternative products that arrive on the market more quickly than our product candidates would be adversely impacted. Notwithstanding the approval of many products by the FDA under Section 505(b)(2) over the last few years, certain brand-name pharmaceutical companies and others have objected to the FDA’s interpretation of Section 505(b)(2). If the FDA’s interpretation of Section 505(b)(2) is successfully challenged, the FDA may be required to change its interpretation of Section 505(b)(2) which could delay or even prevent the FDA from approving any Section 505(b)(2) NDA that we submit. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive, and it is not uncommon for a manufacturer of an approved product to file a citizen petition with the FDA seeking to delay approval of, or impose additional approval requirements for, pending competing products. If successful, such petitions can significantly delay, or even prevent, the approval of the new product. However, even if the FDA ultimately denies such a petition, the FDA may substantially delay approval while it considers and responds to the petition. Moreover, even if VIAjecttm and VIAtabtm are approved under Section 505(b)(2), the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to other conditions of approval, or may contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, when and if any of them are approved. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval, along with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data, labeling, advertising and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continual requirements of and review by the FDA and comparable regulatory authorities. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration requirements, cGMP requirements relating to quality control, quality assurance and corresponding maintenance of records and documents, requirements regarding the distribution of samples to physicians and recordkeeping. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to other conditions of approval, or may contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. Discovery after approval of previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in actions such as: • restrictions on such products’ manufacturers or manufacturing processes; • restrictions on the marketing or distribution of a product; 35 Table of Contents • warning letters; • withdrawal of the products from the market; • refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit; • recall of products; • fines, restitution or disgorgement of profits or revenue; • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; • refusal to permit the import or export of our products; • product seizure; • injunctions; or • imposition of civil or criminal penalties. In addition, our product labeling, advertising and promotion is subject to regulatory requirements and continuing regulatory review. The FDA strictly regulates the promotional claims that may be made about prescription drug products. In particular, a drug may not be promoted for uses that are not approved by the FDA as reflected in the product’s approved labeling. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses, and a company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability. Recently enacted legislation may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates and to produce, market and distribute our existing products. On September 27, 2007, the President signed into law the FDAAA. This new legislation grants significant new powers to the FDA, many of which are aimed at improving drug safety and assuring the safety of drug products after approval. Under the FDAAA, companies that violate the new law are subject to substantial civil monetary penalties. While we expect the FDAAA to have a significant impact on the pharmaceutical industry, the FDA has not yet implemented many of its provisions and the extent of the impact is not yet known. The new requirements and changes imposed by the FDAAA may make it more difficult, and more costly, to obtain and maintain approval of new pharmaceutical products and to produce, market and distribute existing products. In addition, the FDA’s regulations, policies or guidance may change and new or additional statutes or government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates or further restrict or regulate post-approval activities. It is impossible to predict whether additional legislative changes will be enacted, or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, or what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in international jurisdictions would prevent us from marketing our products abroad. We intend to have our products marketed outside the United States. In order to market our products in the European Union and many other jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy and governing, among other things, clinical trials and commercial sales and distribution of our products. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process outside the United States may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval, as well as additional risks. In addition, in many countries outside the United States, it is required that the product be approved for reimbursement before the product can be approved for sale in that country. We may not obtain approvals from regulatory authorities outside the United States on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval by one regulatory authority outside the United States does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions or by the 36 Table of Contents FDA. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. Reports of side effects or safety concerns in related technology fields or in other companies’ clinical trials could delay or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval or negatively impact public perception of our product candidates. At present, there are a number of clinical trials being conducted by us and by other pharmaceutical companies involving insulin or insulin delivery systems. The major safety concern with patients taking insulin is the occurrence of hypoglycemic events, which we monitor on a daily basis in our clinical trials. As of March 12, 2007, we have had a total of 113 mild and moderate hypoglycemic events in our Phase III clinical trials, 73 in patients receiving Humulin® R and 40 in patients receiving VIAjecttm. As of that date, we have also had a total of four severe hypoglycemic events, three in patients receiving Humulin® R and one in a patient receiving VIAjecttm. If we discover that our product is associated with a significantly increased frequency of hypoglycemic or other adverse events, or if other pharmaceutical companies announce that they observed frequent or significant adverse events in their trials involving insulin or insulin delivery systems, we could encounter delays in the commencement or completion of our clinical trials or difficulties in obtaining the approval of our product candidates. In addition, the public perception of our products might be adversely affected, which could harm our business and results of operations, even if the concern relates to another company’s product. Risks Related to Employee Matters and Managing Growth Our future success depends on our ability to retain our chief executive officer and other key executives and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We are highly dependent on Dr. Solomon S. Steiner, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Roderike Pohl, our Vice President, Research, and Gerard Michel, our Chief Financial Officer. Dr. Steiner and Dr. Pohl are the inventors of our VIAdeltm technology. The loss of the services of any of these persons might impede the achievement of our research, development and commercialization objectives. With the exception of Dr. Steiner and Dr. Pohl, who each have employment agreements, all of our employees are “at will” and we currently do not have employment agreements with any of the other members of our management or scientific staff. Replacing key employees may be difficult and time-consuming because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the skills and experiences required to develop, gain regulatory approval of, and commercialize our product candidates successfully. Other than a $1 million key person insurance policy on Dr. Steiner, we do not have key person life insurance to cover the loss of any of our other employees. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific personnel, clinical personnel and sales and marketing personnel will also be critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms, if at all, given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel. We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific and clinical personnel from other companies, universities and research institutions. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our research and development and commercialization strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by employers other than us and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us. We expect to expand our development, regulatory and sales and marketing capabilities, and as a result, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations. We expect to experience significant growth in the number of our employees and the scope of our operations, particularly in the areas of manufacturing, clinical trials management, regulatory affairs, business development and sales and marketing. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems and continue to recruit and train 37 Table of Contents additional qualified personnel. Due to our limited financial resources we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plans or disrupt our operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders will maintain the ability to control all matters submitted to stockholders for approval. Our executive officers, directors and stockholders who own more than 5% of our outstanding common stock beneficially own shares representing more than 50% of our outstanding capital stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, will be able to exercise a controlling influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations and sales of all or substantially all of our assets, and will have significant control over our management and policies. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our corporate interests or the interests of other stockholders. This significant concentration of stock ownership could also result in the entrenchment of our management and adversely affect the price of our common stock. Provisions in our corporate charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our corporate charter and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of us that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our Board of Directors. Because our Board of Directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. Among others, these provisions: • establish a classified Board of Directors such that not all members of the board are elected at one time; • allow the authorized number of our directors to be changed only by resolution of our Board of Directors; • limit the manner in which stockholders can remove directors from the board; • establish advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings and nominations to our Board of Directors; • require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit actions by our stockholders by written consent; • limit who may call stockholder meetings; • authorize our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a stockholder rights plan or “poison pill” that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our Board of Directors; and • require the approval of the holders of at least 75% of the votes that all our stockholders would be entitled to cast to amend or repeal certain provisions of our charter or bylaws. 38 Table of Contents In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. We may not be able to comply on a timely basis with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, beginning with our fiscal year ending September 30, 2008, we will be required to include in our annual report an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Furthermore, our registered independent public accounting firm will be required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have not yet completed our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We restated our financial statements for the three- and nine-months ended June 30, 2007 and for the year ended September 30, 2006 to correct errors in the calculation of non-cash compensation expense related to options issued to non-employees. In connection with the restatement it was determined that we have had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, as defined in the standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. We addressed and resolved these material weaknesses. We are also in the process of documenting, reviewing and, where appropriate, improving our internal controls and procedures in preparation for becoming subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related rules. Implementing appropriate changes to our internal controls may entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing financial and accounting systems, take a significant period of time to complete, and distract our officers, directors and employees from the operation of our business. Moreover, these changes may not be effective in maintaining the adequacy or effectiveness of our internal controls. If we fail to complete the assessment on a timely basis, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot attest to our assessment, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and a loss of public confidence. Also, the lack of effective internal control over financial reporting may adversely impact our ability to prepare timely and accurate financial statements. If our stock price is volatile, purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Our stock price may be volatile. The stock market in general and the market for biotechnology companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: • results of clinical trials of our product candidates or those of our competitors; • regulatory or legal developments in the United States and other countries; • variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; • developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; • the recruitment or departure of key personnel; • changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors and issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; • general economic, industry and market conditions; and • the other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section. 39 Table of Contents We have never paid any cash dividends on our capital stock and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on our capital stock to date. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of any future debt agreements may preclude us from paying dividends. As a result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future, and payment of cash dividends, if any, will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors and will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors. Furthermore, we may in the future become subject to contractual restrictions on, or prohibitions against, the payment of dividends. Capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be investors’ sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. We will incur substantial costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to comply with public company regulations. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as well as other federal and state laws. These requirements may place a strain on our people, systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight will be required. This may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 