ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks materialize, our business could be materially harmed, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Certain statements in this report contain words such as “could,” “expect,” “may,” “anticipate,” “will,” “believe,” “intend,” “estimate,” “plan,” “envision,” “seek” and other similar language and are considered forward-looking statements. These statements are based on our current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the operating environment, economies and markets in which we operate. In addition, other written or oral statements that are considered forward-looking may be made by us or others on our behalf. These statements are subject to important risks, uncertainties and assumptions, that are difficult to predict and actual outcomes may be materially different. The Creditor Protection Proceedings will have a direct impact on our business and exacerbate these risks and uncertainties. In particular, the risks described below could cause actual events to differ materially from those contemplated in forward-looking statements. Unless otherwise required by applicable securities laws, we do not have any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Risks Related to the Creditor Protection Proceedings On February 10, 2009, Spansion Japan Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Spansion LLC (Spansion Japan), filed a proceeding under the Corporate Reorganization Law (Kaisha Kosei Ho) of Japan to obtain protection from Spansion Japan’s creditors (the Spansion Japan Proceeding); and the Tokyo District Court approved the filing of the Spansion Japan Proceeding on March 3, 2009 (the Commencement Date), and appointed the incumbent representative director of Spansion Japan as trustee. On March 1, 2009 (the Petition Date), Spansion Inc., Spansion LLC, Spansion Technology LLC, Spansion International, Inc. and Cerium Laboratories LLC each filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the U. S. Bankruptcy Code in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware (the Chapter 11 Cases, together with the Spansion Japan Proceeding, the Creditor Protection Proceedings). The following risks relate to the Creditor Protection Proceedings. Our business, operations and financial position are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with the Chapter 11 Cases. For the duration of the Chapter 11 Cases, our business, operations and financial position will be subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with such proceedings. These risks, without limitation and in addition to the risks otherwise noted in this Report, include: Strategic risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • stabilize the business to maximize the chances of preserving all or a portion of the enterprise; • successfully focus on and pursue the embedded portion of the Flash memory market; • resolve ongoing issues with creditors and other third parties whose interests may differ from ours; • obtain creditor, court and any other requisite third party approvals for the Plan of Reorganization; and • successfully implement the Plan of Reorganization. 15 Table of Contents Financial risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • generate cash from operations and maintain adequate available cash; • continue to maintain currently approved intercompany lending and transfer pricing arrangements and ongoing deployment of cash resources throughout our company and subsidiaries in connection with ordinary course intercompany trade obligations and requirements; • continue to maintain our cash management arrangements; and obtain any further approvals from the court, creditors or other third parties, as necessary to continue such arrangements; • maintain research and development investments; and • realize full or fair value for any assets or business we may divest as part of the Plan of Reorganization. Operational risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • continue to depend on Spansion Japan for wafer production and distribution of products in Japan due to actions taken by either (i) Spansion Japan (at the direction of the Spansion Japan trustee or pursuant to orders of the Tokyo District Court or otherwise) or (ii) Spansion Inc. or Spansion LLC (pursuant to the order of the U.S. Bankruptcy Court or otherwise); • transfer wafer production capacity in-house or to a third-party foundry, or to find alternative methods of distributing and selling our products, in the event that Spansion Japan is not successful in, or has difficulties in reorganizing, and we are unable to negotiate a new foundry agreement with Spansion Japan; • retain and attract customers despite the uncertainty caused by the Creditor Protection Proceedings; • maintain market share generally and at specific customer accounts despite the uncertainty caused by the Creditor Protection Proceedings, including uncertainty surrounding future research and development expenditures, plans relating to the introduction of new products, price reductions and manufacturing; • respond to competitors’ efforts to capitalize on customer concerns; • operate our business effectively in consultation with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court and our creditors; • actively and adequately communicate on and respond to events, media and rumors associated with the Creditor Protection Proceedings that could adversely affect our relationships with customers, suppliers, partners and employees; • retain and incentivize key employees and attract new employees; • retain, or if necessary, replace major suppliers on acceptable terms; and • avoid disruptions in our supply chain as a result of uncertainties related to the Creditor Protection Proceedings. Procedural risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • obtain court orders or approvals with respect to motions we file from time to time, including motions seeking extensions of the applicable stays of actions and proceedings against us, or obtain timely approval of transactions outside the ordinary course of business, or other events that may require a timely reaction by us; • resolve the claims made against us in such proceedings for amounts not exceeding our recorded liabilities subject to compromise; • prevent third parties from obtaining court orders or approvals that are contrary to our interests, such as the appointment of a Chapter 11 trustee to replace our current management or the termination or shortening of the exclusivity period in the United States during which we can propose and seek confirmation of the Plan of Reorganization or the conversion of the Chapter 11 Cases to Chapter 7 16 Table of Contents liquidation cases, in which case the U.S. Bankruptcy Court would sell the Debtors non-exempt property and distribute the proceeds to our creditors in accordance with the U.S. Bankruptcy Code; and • reject, repudiate or terminate contracts. Because of these risks and uncertainties, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the restructuring process, or predict or quantify the potential impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The Chapter 11 Cases provide us with a period of time to attempt to stabilize our operations and financial condition and develop a plan of reorganization. It is not possible to predict the outcome of the Chapter 11 Cases and, as such, the realization of assets and discharge of liabilities are each subject to significant uncertainty. Accordingly, substantial doubt exists as to whether we will be able to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has included a going-concern explanatory paragraph in its report on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 27, 2009. Our continuation as a going concern is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to obtain confirmation or approval of, and implement, the Plan of Reorganization; generate cash from operations, maintain adequate cash on hand and obtain sufficient other financing during the Creditor Protection Proceedings and thereafter; resolve ongoing issues with creditors and other third parties; and achieve profitability. Even assuming a successful emergence from the Chapter 11 Cases, we cannot assure you as to the overall long-term viability of our reorganized operations, including our ability to generate sufficient cash to support our operating needs, fulfill our transformation objectives and fund continued investment in technology and product development without incurring substantial indebtedness that will hinder our ability to compete, adapt to market changes and grow our business in the future. In addition, we may not be able to secure financing necessary or desirable to facilitate our emergence from bankruptcy. The application of fresh start accounting principles in accordance with U.S. GAAP upon eventual emergence from bankruptcy may result in valuations of long-lived and intangible assets that are less than the carrying value of those assets as currently reflected in the financial statements, which may further hinder our ability to raise financing at or subsequent to emergence from the Chapter 11 Cases. In addition, a long period of operating under the Chapter 11 Cases may exacerbate the potential harm to our business and further restrict our ability to pursue certain business strategies or require us to take actions that we otherwise would not. These challenges are in addition to business, operational and competitive challenges that we would normally face absent the Creditor Protection Proceedings. If our settlement with Spansion Japan is not consummated or if our relationship with Spansion Japan is impaired or terminated as a result of the Creditor Protection Proceedings or other reasons , our business and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Spansion Japan facilitates distribution of our products in Japan and also manufactures and supplies sorted and unsorted silicon wafers to us. The wafers purchased from Spansion Japan are a material component of our “cost of goods sold,” and historically the wafer prices were governed by a pre-petition foundry agreement, which was rejected in the Chapter 11 Cases. Thus, there was a dispute between us and Spansion Japan over pricing for the wafers we received from Spansion Japan for the period beginning February 9, 2009 through October 27, 2009 (the Disputed Period). On January 8, 2010, we reached an agreement in principle (the Settlement) with Spansion Japan to (i) acquire Spansion Japan’s distribution business; (ii) obtain foundry services, including wafer and sort services, from Spansion Japan; and (iii) resolve our dispute with Spansion Japan relating to pricing of wafers purchased during the Disputed Period. The Settlement remains subject to completion of definitive agreements. On January 29, 2010, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court and on February 1, 2010, the Tokyo District Court approved the Settlement. We expect the definitive agreements to be executed in February 2010. If we are unable to consummate the Settlement with definitive agreements, we will be forced to pursue alternate arrangements for the distribution and sale of our products in Japan and to procure wafers and sort services from an alternate source. On January 15, 2010, Spansion Japan filed a general unsecured proof of claim in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court asserting that it has been damaged in the amount of approximately $761 million as a result of the November 19, 2009 17 Table of Contents foundry agreement rejection order. We believe we have strong defenses to the amount of Spansion Japan’s proof of claim, and we intend to vigorously contest this matter. An award of damages resulting from the rejection of the foundry agreement could result in an impact to future earnings. However, under the Plan of Reorganization, Spansion Japan would not be entitled to any recovery on such proof of claim. Nonetheless, if the U.S. Bankruptcy Court found that such claim were more appropriately classified as a general unsecured claim in Class 5B of our proposed Plan of Reorganization, Spansion Japan would be entitled, at most, to its pro-rata distribution of new Spansion common stock. Although we have agreed to the Settlement with Spansion Japan, there is risk in continuing to do business with Spansion Japan due to the uncertainty of whether Spansion Japan will successfully reorganize. The current deadline for Spansion Japan to submit a plan of reorganization to the Tokyo District Court is February 24, 2010. We can provide no assurance that Spansion Japan’s plan of reorganization will be approved, or that Spansion Japan will not be liquidated. As a result, we have plans to either replace with in-house capabilities the services that Spansion Japan provides or to utilize another third party for such services in order to mitigate the impact that would result if for any reason Spansion Japan reduced its supply of, or ceased supplying, the goods and services to us. Nevertheless, a sudden and unanticipated reduction or cessation of the supply of goods and services from Spansion Japan would likely be disruptive and have an adverse impact on our results of operations and that impact could be material. Continuing or increasing pressure on our business, cash and liquidity could materially and adversely affect our ability to fund and reorganize our business operations, react to and withstand the current economic downturn, as well as volatile and uncertain market and industry conditions, and implement the Plan of Reorganization. Additional sources of funds may not be available. Historically, we have deployed our cash throughout the enterprise, through a variety of intercompany borrowing and transfer pricing arrangements. As a result of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, cash in the various jurisdictions is generally available to fund operations in the particular jurisdictions, but generally is not freely transferable between jurisdictions or regions, other than as highlighted in “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this Report. Thus, there is greater pressure and reliance on cash balances and generation capacity in specific regions and jurisdictions. We cannot assure you that any further required court approvals for any future financing transactions will be obtained. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to maintain ongoing deployment of cash resources throughout our organization worldwide in connection with ordinary course intercompany trade obligations. If our subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends or provide us with loans or other forms of financing in sufficient amounts, or if we continue to have restrictions on the transfer of cash between us and our subsidiaries, including those imposed by courts, foreign governments and commercial limitations on transfers of cash, our cash position would likely be under considerable pressure and our liquidity and our ability to meet our obligations would be adversely affected. Access to additional funds from liquidity-generating transactions or other sources of external financing may not be available to us and, if available, would be subject to market conditions and certain limitations including court approvals and other requisite approvals by other third parties. We cannot provide any assurance that our net cash requirements will be as we currently expect and will be sufficient for the successful confirmation and implementation of the Plan of Reorganization. We may not be able to successfully obtain the U.S. Bankruptcy Court’s confirmation of, or implement, the Plan of Reorganization. Failure to obtain the confirmation of, or failure to successfully implement, the Plan of Reorganization could lead to the liquidation of all of our assets. We must continue to restructure and transform our business and the assumptions underlying these efforts may prove to be inaccurate. On October 26, 2009, we filed with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court a proposed Plan of Reorganization and an accompanying disclosure statement, and on each of November 25, 2009 and December 9, 2009, we filed with the 18 Table of Contents U.S. Bankruptcy Court amended plans of reorganization and amended disclosure statements. On December 17, 2009, we filed a Second Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization dated December 16, 2009 (as amended from time to time, the “Plan of Reorganization”). The Plan of Reorganization will become effective only if it is confirmed by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court. The objection deadline with respect to the Plan of Reorganization occurred January 26, 2010, subject to extensions agreed to by us for certain parties. The voting deadline with respect to the Plan of Reorganization was February 8, 2010. The confirmation hearing in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court is scheduled to begin on February 24, 2010. If the U.S. Bankruptcy Court confirms the Plan of Reorganization, we expect to emerge from Chapter 11 shortly thereafter. However, there can be no assurance that the U.S. Bankruptcy Court will confirm the plan of reorganization or that it will be implemented successfully. In connection with the transformation of our business, we have made, and will continue to make, judgments as to whether we should further reduce, relocate or otherwise change our workforce. Costs incurred in connection with workforce reduction efforts may be higher than estimated. In addition, our workforce reduction efforts may impair our ability to achieve our current or future business objectives. Any further workforce efforts including reductions may not occur on the expected timetable and may result in the recording of additional charges. Further, we have made, and will continue to make, judgments as to whether we should limit investment in, exit, or dispose of certain parts of our business. The Chapter 11 Cases may result in the sale or divestiture of assets, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete any sale or divestiture on acceptable terms or at all. Any decision by management to further limit investment in, or exit or dispose of parts of our business may result in the recording of additional charges. As part of our review of our restructured business, we look at the recoverability of tangible and intangible assets. Future market conditions may indicate these assets are not recoverable based on changes in forecasts of future business performance and the estimated useful life of these assets, and this may trigger further write-downs of these assets which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. While the Chapter 11 Cases are pending, our financial results may be volatile and may not reflect historical trends. While the Chapter 11 Cases are pending, we expect our financial results to continue to be volatile as asset impairments, asset dispositions, restructuring activities, contract terminations and rejections and claims assessments may significantly impact our consolidated financial statements. As a result, our historical financial performance is likely not indicative of our financial performance following the filing of the Chapter 11 Cases. Further, we may sell or otherwise dispose of assets and liquidate or settle liabilities, with court approval, for amounts other than those reflected in our historical financial statements. Any such sale or disposition and the Plan of Reorganization could materially change the amounts and classifications reported in our historical consolidated financial statements, which do not give effect to any adjustments to the carrying value of assets or amounts of liabilities that might be necessary as a consequence of the Plan of Reorganization. Our ability to independently manage our business is restricted during the Creditor Protection Proceedings, and steps or actions in connection therewith may require the approval of the U.S. Bankruptcy Court, the U.S. Trustee and our creditors. Pursuant to the various U.S. Bankruptcy Court orders and the U.S Bankruptcy Code, during the Chapter 11 Cases, some or all of the decisions with respect to our business may require consultation with, review by or ultimate approval of the U.S. Bankruptcy Court and the U.S. Trustee, our general unsecured creditors’ committee and the Floating Rate Noteholders. For example, on January 22, 2010, a motion was filed in U.S. Bankruptcy Court to appoint a Chapter 11 trustee to replace or directly supervise current management. The lack of independence and the related consulting and reporting requirements have significantly increased the amount of time required for us to take necessary actions and conclude and execute on decisions, and may make it impossible for us to take actions that we believe are appropriate and necessary. We cannot assure you that the 19 Table of Contents U.S. Bankruptcy Court, the U.S. Trustee, the Creditors’ Committee, other creditors or the Floating Rate Noteholders will support our positions on matters presented to the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in the future, or on the Plan of Reorganization. Disagreements between us and these various third parties could protract the Chapter 11 Cases, negatively impact our ability to operate and delay our emergence from the Chapter 11 Cases. The Creditor Protection Proceedings have had a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operating as a globally integrated unit. Upon commencement of the Spansion Japan Proceeding, Spansion LLC, in its capacity as the sole stockholder of Spansion Japan, and Spansion Japan’s board of directors lost operational control of, and management authority over, Spansion Japan. At that time, all such control and management was vested in the trustee appointed in the Spansion Japan Proceeding, under the supervision of the Tokyo District Court and a supervising attorney appointed by the Tokyo District Court. In addition, although we have historically deployed our cash throughout the enterprise, through a variety of intercompany borrowing and transfer pricing arrangements, cash in the various jurisdictions is generally available to fund operations in the particular jurisdictions, but generally is not freely transferable between jurisdictions or regions and we have to renegotiate some of our transfer pricing arrangements. The resulting contracts and financial arrangements may adversely affect our financial results and business. Furthermore, our inability to repatriate cash throughout the enterprise as needed could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Transfers or issuances of our equity, or a debt restructuring, may impair or reduce our ability to utilize our net operating loss carry-forwards and certain other tax attributes in the future. Pursuant to U.S. tax rules, a corporation is generally permitted to deduct from taxable income in any year net operating losses (NOLs) carried forward from prior years. We have NOL carryforwards in the United States of approximately $1.1 billion as of December 27, 2009. Our ability to utilize these NOL carryforwards could be subject to a significant limitation if we were to undergo an “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, during or as a result of the Chapter 11 Cases. During the Chapter 11 Cases, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court has entered an order that places certain restrictions on trading in our common stock. However, we can provide no assurances that these limitations will prevent an “ownership change” or that our ability to utilize our NOL carryforwards may not be significantly limited as a result of our restructuring. A restructuring of our debt pursuant to the Chapter 11 Cases may give rise to cancellation of indebtedness or debt forgiveness (COD), which if it occurs would generally be non-taxable. If the COD is non-taxable, we will be required to reduce our NOL carryforwards and other attributes such as capital loss carryforwards and tax basis in assets, by an amount equal to the non-recognized COD. Therefore, it is possible that, as a result of the successful completion of a plan of reorganization, we will have a reduction of NOL carryforwards and/or other tax attributes in an amount that cannot be determined at this time and that could have a material adverse effect on our future financial results. Trading in our securities on the Pink Sheets during the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases is highly speculative and poses substantial risks. Our common stock has been delisted from The NASDAQ Stock Market and is traded on the Pink Sheets, which makes our common stock significantly less liquid. Trading prices of our securities are very volatile and may bear little or no relationship to the actual recovery, if any, by the holders under the Plan of Reorganization. In the Plan of Reorganization, our existing securities, in particular our common stock will be cancelled and holders will receive no payment or other consideration in return. 20 Table of Contents If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel at reasonable costs, we may not be able to achieve our business objectives, and our ability to successfully emerge from the Chapter 11 Cases may be harmed. We are dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of our senior management and other key employees to execute our current business plans and lead us, particularly during the Chapter 11 Cases and throughout the implementation of the Plan of Reorganization. Competition for certain key positions and specialized technical and sales personnel in the high-technology industry remains strong. Our deteriorating financial performance, along with the Chapter 11 Cases and workforce reductions create uncertainty that has led to an increase in unwanted attrition, and additional challenges in attracting and retaining new qualified personnel. We have lost many key employees with long tenures and broad knowledge about our historical operations and we are at risk of losing or being unable to hire talent critical to a successful reorganization and ongoing operation of our business. Our ability to retain and attract critical talent is restricted in part by the Chapter 11 Cases that, among other things, limit our ability to implement a retention program or take other measures to attract new hires to the Company or motivate employees to remain with us. Our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate in a timely manner and retain qualified personnel, particularly in key senior management positions. If we are not able to attract, recruit or retain qualified employees (including as a result of headcount and salary reductions), we may not have the personnel necessary to implement the Plan of Reorganization, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. Risks Related to our Financial Condition If we cannot generate sufficient operating cash flows and obtain external financing, we may be materially adversely affected. Our capital expenditures, together with ongoing operating expenses, have been a substantial drain on our cash flows and have decreased our cash balances. Since fiscal 2008, we have increased cost cutting activities, including: salary reductions; cutting capital spending; reducing and freezing headcount; cutting research and development projects; and reducing administrative expenses. Some cost cutting activities may require initial cost outlays before the cost reductions are realized. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve anticipated expense reductions. If our expense reduction efforts are unsuccessful, our operating results and business may be materially adversely affected. Additional funds from liquidity-generating transactions or other sources of external financing may not be available to us. Such financing would be subject to certain limitations, including court approvals and other requisite approvals by other third parties. Our inability to obtain needed financing or to generate sufficient cash from operations may require us to abandon projects or curtail capital expenditures, or may have an adverse effect on our restructuring process. If we cannot generate sufficient operating cash flows or obtain external financing, we would be materially adversely affected. Financial market conditions may impede access to or increase the cost of financing operations and investments. The changes in U.S. and global financial and equity markets, including market disruptions and tightening of the credit markets, compounded by us being subject to the Chapter 11 Cases, may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or increase the cost of obtaining financing, which would materially adversely affect us. We are party to several debt instruments for which, as a result of the Chapter 11 Cases, an event of default has occurred. In connection with our reorganization, we may enter into debt arrangements in the future, each of which may subject us to restrictive covenants which could limit our ability to operate our business. As of December 27, 2009, we had an aggregate principal amount of approximately $1.1 billion in outstanding debt, almost all of which became due and immediately payable upon events of default triggered by the occurrence of events related to the Creditor Protection Proceedings. During the Chapter 11 Cases and upon 21 Table of Contents emergence from them, we will need to incur additional indebtedness through arrangements such as credit agreements or term loans that may include restrictions and covenants that are similar or more restrictive than the covenants in our existing debt instruments. These restrictions and covenants limit, and any future covenants and restrictions likely will limit our ability to respond to market conditions, to make capital investments or to take advantage of business opportunities. Any debt arrangements we enter into would likely require us to make regular interest payments, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We cannot assure you that in the future we will be able to satisfy or comply with the provisions, covenants, financial tests and ratios of our debt instruments, which can be affected by events beyond our control. If we fail to satisfy or comply with such provisions, covenants, financial tests and ratios, or if we disagree with our lenders about whether or not we are in compliance, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain waivers for any future failures to comply with our financial covenants or any other terms of the debt instruments. We also may not be able to obtain amendments which will prevent a failure to comply in the future. A breach of any of the provisions, covenants, financial tests or ratios under our debt instruments could result in a default under the applicable agreement, which in turn could trigger cross-defaults under other debt instruments, any of which would materially adversely affect us. Our investments in auction rate securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. As of December 27, 2009, our auction rate securities (ARS) totaled approximately $100.3 million and consisted solely of AAA/Aaa securities with auction reset features whose underlying assets are student loans and are substantially backed by the U.S. government Federal Family Education Loan Program. During 2008, we experienced failed auctions of our ARS and we cannot assure you that any future auctions would be successful. In November 2008, we accepted an offer to participate in an auction rate securities settlement from UBS Bank USA (UBS), providing us the right, but not the obligation, to sell to UBS up to all of our ARS at par, commencing June 30, 2010 through July 2, 2012. This right represents a put option for a payment equal to the par value of the ARS. The put option is subject to a number of risks. Given the substantial dislocation in the financial markets and among financial services companies, we cannot assure you that UBS will ultimately have the ability to repurchase our ARS at par, or at any other price during the put period described above. We will be required to periodically assess the economic ability of UBS to meet that obligation in assessing the fair value of the rights. Moreover, if we choose to not exercise or UBS is unable to honor the put option, our ability to liquidate our investments in the near term may be limited, and our ability to fully recover the carrying value of our investments may be limited or non-existent. If issuers of these securities are unable to successfully close future auctions or their credit ratings deteriorate, we may in the future be required to record further impairment charges on these investments. It could take until the final maturity of the underlying notes (up to 39 years) to realize our investments’ recorded value. We can provide no assurance as to when these investments will again become liquid or as to whether we may ultimately have to recognize additional impairment charges in our results of operations with respect to these investments. Delays in liquidating these securities in the future could have a material adverse effect on us. Risks Related to Our Business The demand for our products depends in large part on continued growth in the industries into which they are sold. A decline in the markets served by any of these industries, or a decline in demand for Flash memory products in these industries, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If demand for mobile phones, other consumer products or industrial products utilizing Flash memory declines, our business could be materially adversely affected. Also, if the functionality of successive generations of such products does not require increasing Flash memory density or if such products no longer require Flash memory due to alternative technologies or otherwise, our operating results would be materially adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents Our business has been characterized by an average selling price that declines over time, which can negatively affect our results of operations. Generally, we endeavor to maintain or increase our average selling price while lowering our average costs, by improving our product mix, and selling more units. Historically, the selling prices of our products have decreased during the products’ lives, and we expect this trend to continue. When our selling prices decline, our net sales and gross margins also decline unless we are able to compensate by selling more units thereby reducing our manufacturing costs per product or introducing and selling new, higher margin products with higher densities and/or advanced features. If the average selling price for our products continues to decline, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. During downturns, periods of extremely intense competition, or the presence of oversupply in the industry, the selling prices for our products has declined at a high rate over relatively short time periods as compared to historical rates of decline. We are unable to predict selling prices for any future periods and may experience unanticipated, sharp declines in selling prices for our products. When such pricing declines occur, we may not be able to mitigate the effects by selling more or higher margin units, or by reducing our manufacturing costs. In such circumstances, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. The Flash memory market is highly cyclical and has experienced severe downturns that have materially adversely affected, and may in the future materially adversely affect, our business. The Flash memory market is highly cyclical and in the past has experienced severe downturns, generally as a result of wide fluctuations in supply and demand, constant and rapid technological change, continuous new product introductions and price erosion. Our financial performance has been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by these downturns. We have incurred substantial losses in past downturns, and as a result of the most recent downturn, due principally to: • substantial declines in selling prices, particularly due to competitive pressures and an imbalance in product supply and demand; and • a decline in demand for end-user products that incorporate our products. Our historical financial information does not necessarily indicate what our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows will be in the future. If our net sales decline in the future, or if these or other similar conditions continue or occur again in the future, we would likely be materially adversely affected. Our forecasts of customer demand for our products may be inaccurate, which could result in excess or shortages in inventory, which could cause us to record write-downs or fail to meet customer demand. Inaccurate forecasting could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. Although our manufacturing cycle times are relatively lengthy, in excess of ten weeks, we nevertheless compete in a market where suppliers’ ability to respond quickly to new incoming orders is a competitive differentiator. Thus, we must forecast customer demand and produce requisite amounts of our products in order to fill current and future orders even though demand is volatile and difficult to predict. To forecast demand and value inventory, management considers, among other factors, the inventory on hand, historical customer demand data, backlog data, competitiveness of product offerings, market conditions and product life cycles. If we are unable to accurately assess these factors and anticipate future demand or market conditions, inventory write-downs may be required and would be reflected in cost of sales in the period the write-down is made. This would have a negative impact on our gross margin in that period. Inaccurate forecasting could also result in excess or obsolete inventory that would reduce our profit margins or shortages in inventory that would cause us to fail to meet customer demand. If, as a result of inaccurate forecasting, we are unable to produce the types and quantities of products required by our customers in the timeframes and on the delivery schedules required by our customers, we may lose customers or, in certain circumstances, be liable for losses incurred by our customers, which would materially adversely affect our business and financial results. 23 Table of Contents Any future business combinations, divestitures, acquisitions or mergers expose us to risks, including the risk that we may not be able to successfully integrate these businesses or achieve expected operating synergies. During the Chapter 11 Cases we will, and upon emergence from them we may periodically, consider strategic transactions. We may evaluate acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, alliances or co-production programs as opportunities arise and we may be engaged in varying levels of negotiations with third parties at any time. We may not be able to effect transactions and if we enter into transactions, we also may not realize the benefits we anticipate. Moreover, the integration of companies that have previously been operated separately involves a number of risks. Consummating any acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, alliances or co-production programs could result in the incurrence of additional transaction-related expenses, as well as unforeseen contingent liabilities, which could materially adversely affect us. A significant market shift to NAND architecture would materially adversely affect us. Flash memory products are generally based on either NOR or NAND architecture. To date, our Flash memory products have been based on NOR architecture which are typically produced at a higher cost-per-bit than NAND-based products. We are developing our MirrorBit NAND architectures primarily to address embedded applications currently served by NAND- based products or potentially served by NAND-based products in the future, but we cannot be certain that our MirrorBit NAND-based products will satisfactorily address those market needs. From 2004 to 2008, industry sales of NAND-based Flash memory products increased as a percentage of total Flash memory sales compared to sales of NOR-based Flash memory products, resulting in NAND vendors in aggregate gaining a greater share of the overall Flash memory market and NOR vendors in aggregate losing overall market share. We expect the Flash memory market trend of decreasing market share for NOR-based Flash memory products relative to NAND-based Flash memory products to continue in the foreseeable future. Customers manufacturing products for embedded applications may increasingly choose floating gate NAND-based Flash memory products over MirrorBit NOR- or NAND-based Flash memory products for their applications. If this occurs and customers continue to prefer floating gate NAND-based products over those of MirrorBit NOR- or NAND-based products for their applications, we may be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, some of our competitors are able to manufacture floating gate NAND-based Flash memory products on 300-millimeter wafers produced in much larger capacity fabrication facilities (fabs) than we currently have access to. In addition, some of our competitors may choose to utilize more advanced manufacturing process technologies than we may have available to offer products competitive to ours at a lower cost or with higher densities. In addition, even if products based on NAND architecture are unsuccessful in displacing products based on NOR architecture, the average selling price for our products may be adversely affected by a significant decline in the price for NAND-based products. Such a decline may result in downward price pressure in the overall Flash memory market affecting the price we can obtain for our NOR-based products, which would adversely affect us. We believe such downward pricing pressure was a factor in the significant declines in the selling prices of our products in 2007 and 2008. If the prices for NAND products similarly decline in the future, we may be materially adversely affected. We cannot be certain that our substantial investments in research and development will lead to timely improvements in technology or that we will have sufficient resources to invest in the level of research and development that is required to remain competitive. In order to compete, we are required to make substantial investments in research and development for design, process technologies and production techniques in an effort to design and manufacture advanced Flash memory products. For example, in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, our research and development expenses were approximately $136.4 million, $431.8 million and $436.8 million, respectively, or approximately 10, 19 and 17 percent, respectively, of our net sales. 24 Table of Contents Currently, we are developing new non-volatile memory process technologies. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required for us to remain competitive, which could materially adversely affect us. Further, we cannot assure you that our investments in research and development will result in increased sales or competitive advantage, which could materially adversely affect our operating results. If we fail to successfully develop, introduce and commercialize new products and technologies, we may be materially adversely affected. Our success depends to a significant extent on the development, qualification, production, introduction and acceptance of new product designs and improvements that provide value to Flash memory customers. Our ability to develop and qualify new products and related technologies to meet evolving industry requirements at prices acceptable to our customers and on a timely basis affects our competitiveness in our target markets. If we are delayed in developing or qualifying new products or technologies, we could be materially adversely affected. Competitors may introduce new memory or other technologies that may make our Flash memory products uncompetitive or obsolete. Our competitors are working on a number of new technologies, including FRAM, MRAM, polymer, charge trapping and phase-change based memory technologies. One of our competitors began shipping products based on phase-change based memory technology in 2008. If such products are successfully developed and commercialized as a viable alternative to MirrorBit or floating gate Flash memory, these other products could pose a competitive threat to existing Flash memory companies, including us. In addition, some of Saifun’s licensees and customers are our competitors or work with our competitors and have licensed Flash memory intellectual property associated with charge trapping technology from Saifun. Use of this charge trapping intellectual property or use of independently developed charge trapping Flash memory technology by our competitors, if successfully developed and commercialized, may allow these competitors to develop Flash memory technology that may compete with our proprietary MirrorBit technology. If we fail to successfully develop new applications and markets for our products our future operating results would be materially adversely affected. We are developing new applications and opportunities for our products beyond our traditional customer base and in some cases plan to deploy our Flash memory solutions beyond current Flash memory markets. We expect these new applications to grow future net sales, future margin or a combination of both. However, some of these opportunities require that we are successful in creating, marketing, gaining customer acceptance of and deploying these new system architectures into a customer base where we do not have a historic business relationship and where our solution is required to replace established and proven solutions. In some cases our solutions rely on third parties to contribute a significant and necessary component of the solution without which the solution is nonviable. If we are unsuccessful in our attempts to bring new products to market, experience significant delays in generating sales, fail to establish the value of this solution or face competition from third parties or incumbent suppliers that result in lower margins than expected, then our future operating results would be materially adversely affected. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks that could materially adversely affect us. We have in the past and plan in the future to obtain foundry, subcontractor and other arrangements with third parties to meet demand. Foundry services suppliers from which we have obtained, and in the future may obtain, foundry services, include Spansion Japan, Fujitsu Microelectronics Limited (as a result of the sale of our JV1/JV2 manufacturing facilities in April 2007) and Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation. We also use independent contractors to perform some of the assembly, testing and packaging of our products. Some third-party manufacturers are often under no obligation to provide us with any specified minimum quantity 25 Table of Contents of product. We depend on these manufacturers to allocate to us a portion of their manufacturing capacity sufficient to meet our needs, and, in the case of Spansion Japan, all of their manufacturing capacity has historically been allocated to us. We also depend on these manufacturers to produce products of acceptable quality and at acceptable manufacturing yields and to deliver those products to us on a timely basis at acceptable prices. In addition, we rely on these manufacturers to invest capital into their facilities and process technologies to meet our needs for new products using advanced process technologies. Given the Creditor Protection Proceedings and the current volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets worldwide, we cannot assure you that they will make the investments in their facilities previously contemplated. We cannot assure you that these manufacturers will be able to meet our near-term or long-term manufacturing requirements and may not be able to attain qualification from our customers. In addition, any significant change in the payment terms we have with our key suppliers could adversely affect us. These manufacturers, excluding Spansion Japan, also make products for other companies, including certain of our competitors, and/or for themselves and could choose to prioritize capacity for themselves or other customers beyond any minimum guaranteed amounts, reduce deliveries to us or, in the absence of price guarantees, increase the prices they charge us on short notice, such that we may not be able to pass cost increases on to our customers. The likelihood of this occurring may be greater as a result of the Creditor Protection Proceedings. We may be unable to secure an alternative supply for specific products in a short timeframe or at all at an acceptable cost to satisfy our production requirements. In addition, we may be required to incur additional development, manufacturing and other costs to establish alternative sources of supply. Other risks associated with our increased dependence on third-party manufacturers include: their ability to adapt to our proprietary technology, reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields and cost, lack of capacity in periods of excess demand, misappropriation of our intellectual property, reduced ability to manage inventory and parts and risks associated with operating in foreign countries. If we are unable to secure sufficient or reliable suppliers of wafers or obtain the necessary assembling, testing and packaging services, our ability to meet customer demand for our products may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We rely on Fujitsu Microelectronics Limited to distribute our products in Japan. We currently rely on Fujitsu Microelectronics Limited (FML) through its subsidiary Fujitsu Electronics Inc. (FEI) to distribute our products to customers in Japan, which is an important geographic market for us. Under our distribution agreement with FML, FML has agreed to use its best efforts to promote the sale of our products in Japan and to other customers served by FML. In the event that we reasonably determine that FML’s sales performance in Japan and to those customers served by FML is not satisfactory based on specified criteria, then we have the right to require FML to propose and implement an agreed-upon corrective action plan. If we reasonably believe that the corrective action plan is inadequate, we can take steps to remedy deficiencies ourselves through means that include appointing another distributor as a supplementary distributor to sell products in Japan and to customers served by FML. Pursuing these actions would be costly and disruptive to the sales of our products in Japan. If FML’s sales performance in Japan is unsatisfactory or if we are unable to successfully maintain our distribution agreement and relationship with FML and we cannot timely find a suitable supplementary distributor, we could be materially adversely affected. Under the terms of our distribution agreement with FML, either party may terminate the distribution agreement, either in whole or in part, for convenience upon 60 days written notice to the other party. If FML unexpectedly terminates its distribution agreement with us, or otherwise ceases its support of our customers in Japan, we would be required to rely on a relationship with another distributor or establish our own local sales organization and support functions. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in selling our products to customers currently served by FML or new customers. If customers currently served by FML, or potential new customers, refuse to purchase our products directly from us or from another distributor, our sales in Japan may decline, and we could be materially adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents Industry overcapacity could require us to take actions which could have a material adverse effect on us. Semiconductor companies with their own manufacturing facilities and specialist semiconductor foundries, which are subcontractors that manufacture semiconductors designed by others, have added significant capacity in recent years. In 2008, the significant excess capacity led to oversupply and a downturn in the memory industry. The contraction of the worldwide economy, especially in the fourth quarter of 2008, further compounded industry over capacity. Continuing manufacturing overcapacity in the industry is having a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, fluctuations in the growth rate of industry capacity relative to the growth rate in demand for Flash memory products can contribute to cyclicality in the Flash memory market, which may in the future negatively impact our selling prices and materially adversely affect us. It is difficult to predict future growth or decline in the markets we serve, making it very difficult to estimate requirements for production capacity. If our target markets do not grow as we anticipate, we may under-utilize our manufacturing capacity or we may be contractually obligated to purchase minimum quantities of certain products from our subcontractors. This may result in write-downs or write-offs of inventories and losses on products the demand for which is lower than we anticipate. In addition, during periods of industry overcapacity, customers do not generally order products as far in advance of the scheduled shipment date as they do during periods when our industry is operating closer to capacity, which can exacerbate the difficulty in forecasting capacity requirements. Many of our costs are fixed. Additionally, pursuant to some of our subcontractor and foundry arrangements with third parties we may incur and pay penalties, according to which we have agreed to pay for a certain amount of product even if we do not accept delivery of all of such amount. Accordingly, during periods in which we under-utilize our manufacturing capacity as a result of reduced demand for some of our products, our costs cannot be reduced in proportion to the reduced net sales for such periods. When this occurs, our operating results are materially adversely affected. Our customers’ ability to change booked orders may lead to excess inventory. Because our manufacturing processes require long lead times, we use indicators such as booking rates in conjunction with other business metrics, to schedule production in our fabrication facilities. Consequently, when customers change orders booked with us, our planned manufacturing capacity may be greater or less than actual demand, resulting in less than optimal inventory levels. When this occurs, we adjust our production levels but such adjustments may not prevent our production of excess inventory in environments when bookings are strong. As a result, our business may be materially adversely affected. Intense competition in the Flash memory market could materially adversely affect us. Our principal NOR Flash memory competitors are Numonyx B.V., Macronix International Co., Ltd. and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Additional significant NOR Flash memory competitors include Silicon Storage Technology, Inc. and Toshiba Corporation. We increasingly compete with NAND Flash memory manufacturers where NAND Flash memory has the ability to replace NOR Flash memory in customer applications. Our principal NAND Flash memory competitors include Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Numonyx B.V. and Micron Technology, Inc. In the future our principal NAND Flash memory competitors may include Hynix Semiconductor Inc., Toshiba Corporation, Intel Corporation, IM Flash Technology LLC, the joint venture between Intel and Micron Technology, Inc. and SanDisk Corporation. The Flash memory market is characterized by intense competition. The basis of competition is cost, selling price, performance, quality, customer relationships and ability to provide value-added solutions. In particular, in the past, our competitors have aggressively priced their products, which resulted in decreased selling prices for 27 Table of Contents our products in the first half of fiscal 2007 and adversely impacted our results of operations. Some of our competitors, including Samsung and Toshiba, are more diversified than we are and may be able to sustain lower operating margins in their Flash memory business based on the profitability of their other, non-Flash memory businesses. In addition, capital investments by competitors have resulted in substantial industry manufacturing capacity, which may further contribute to a competitive pricing environment. Some of our competitors are able to manufacture floating gate NAND-based Flash memory products on 300-millimeter wafers produced in much larger capacity fabs than we may have access to or may choose to utilize more advanced manufacturing process technologies than we will have to offer products competitive to ours at a lower cost or higher density. Moreover, products based on our MirrorBit ORNAND-, MirrorBit Quad- and MirrorBit NAND-based architectures may not have the price, performance, quality and other features necessary to compete successfully for these applications. We expect competition in the market for Flash memory devices to intensify as existing manufacturers introduce new products, new manufacturers enter the market, industry-wide production capacity increases and competitors aggressively price their Flash memory products to increase market share. The competition we face may also intensify, particularly in light of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, if our competitors, who may have greater financial resources than us, increase their focus on the Flash memory products, or segments of the Flash memory markets, that generate a significant portion of our net sales. Competitive pressures may also increase if NOR memory vendors merge, if NAND memory vendors acquire NOR businesses or other NAND businesses, or if our competitors otherwise consolidate their operations. Furthermore, we face increasing competition from NAND Flash memory vendors targeting the embedded portion of the Flash memory market. To compete successfully, we must decrease our manufacturing costs and develop, introduce and sell products at competitive prices that meet the increasing demand for greater Flash memory content in mobile phones, consumer electronics, automotive and other applications. If we are unable to compete effectively, we could be materially adversely affected. Unless we maintain manufacturing efficiency, we may not become profitable and our future profitability could be materially adversely affected. The Flash memory industry is characterized by rapid technological changes. For example, new manufacturing process technologies using smaller feature sizes and offering better performance characteristics are generally introduced every one to two years. The introduction of new manufacturing process technologies allows us to increase the functionality of our products while at the same time optimizing performance parameters, decreasing power consumption and/or increasing storage capacity. In addition, the reduction of feature sizes enables us to produce smaller chips offering the same functionality and thereby considerably reduces the cost per bit. In order to remain competitive, it is essential that we secure the capabilities to develop and qualify new manufacturing process technologies. For example, our leading Flash memory products must be manufactured at 65-nanometer and more advanced process technologies. If we are delayed in transitioning to these technologies and other future technologies, we could be materially adversely affected. As a result of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, we may be forced to shut down or abandon current plans for our manufacturing facilities which could materially adversely affect us. Manufacturing our products involves highly complex processes that require advanced equipment. Our manufacturing efficiency is an important factor in our profitability, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain or increase our manufacturing efficiency to the same extent as our competitors. For example, we continuously modify our manufacturing processes in an effort to improve yields and product performance and decrease costs. We are continuing to transition to 65-nanometer process technology for the manufacture of some of our products. During periods when we are implementing new process technologies, manufacturing facilities may not be fully productive. We may fail to achieve acceptable yields or may experience product delivery delays as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, delays in the development of new process technologies, 28 Table of Contents changes in our process technologies, upgrades or expansion of existing facilities, impurities or other difficulties in the manufacturing process. Any of these occurrences could adversely impact our relationships with customers, cause harm to our reputation in the marketplace, cause customers to move future business to our competitors or cause us to make financial concessions to our customers. Improving our manufacturing efficiency in future periods is dependent on our ability to: • develop advanced process technologies and advanced products that utilize those technologies; • successfully transition to advanced process technologies; • continue to reduce test times; • ramp product and process technology improvements rapidly and effectively to commercial volumes; • achieve acceptable levels of manufacturing wafer output and yields, which may decrease as we implement more advanced technologies; and • maintain our quality controls and rely upon the quality and process controls of our suppliers. If we cannot adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property in the United States and abroad, through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and other measures, we may lose a competitive advantage and incur significant expenses. We rely on a combination of protections provided by contracts, including confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements, copyrights, patents, trademarks and common law rights, such as trade secrets, to protect our intellectual property. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property from third-party infringement or from misappropriation in the United States and abroad. Any patent owned or licensed by us or issued to us could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or rights granted under these patents or licenses may not provide a competitive advantage to us. Furthermore, patent applications that we file may not result in issuance of a patent or, if a patent is issued, the patent may not be issued in a form that is advantageous to us. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, others may independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around our patents and other intellectual property rights. In addition, it is difficult to monitor compliance with, and enforce, our intellectual property on a worldwide basis in a cost-effective manner. Foreign laws may provide less intellectual property protection than afforded in the United States. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property in the United States and abroad, through lawsuits such as those that have been filed between us and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., may be time-consuming and costly. If we cannot adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property rights in the United States and abroad, we may be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully to negotiate agreements or arrangements with third parties for rights to key intellectual property, which creates a greatly increased risk of patent or other intellectual property infringement claims against us. We may attempt to negotiate our own agreements and arrangements with third parties for intellectual property and technology that are important to our business. We may also attempt to acquire new patents as our success in negotiating patent cross-license agreements with other industry participants will depend in large part upon the strength of our patent portfolio relative to that of the third party with which we are negotiating. If we are unable to negotiate agreements or arrangements for intellectual property, or to obtain patents, necessary for the success of our business, we may be materially adversely affected. We are party to intellectual property litigation and may become party to other intellectual property claims or litigation that could cause us to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages or prohibit us from selling our products. From time to time, we may be notified, or third parties may bring actions against us based on allegations, that we are infringing the intellectual property rights of others. If any such claims are asserted against us, we may 29 Table of Contents seek to obtain a license under the third party’s intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain all of the necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. In the event that we cannot obtain a license, these parties may file lawsuits against us seeking damages (potentially including treble damages) or an injunction against the sale of our products that incorporate allegedly infringed intellectual property or against the operation of our business as presently conducted, which could result in our having to stop the sale of some of our products, increase the costs of selling some of our products, or cause damage to our reputation. The award of damages, including material royalty payments, or the entry of an injunction against the manufacture and sale of some or all of our products, would have a material adverse effect on us. We could decide, in the alternative, to redesign our products or to resort to litigation to challenge or defend such claims, either of which could be expensive and time-consuming and may have a material adverse effect on us. See Item 3 “Legal Proceedings.” We provide indemnities relating to non-infringement of patents and other intellectual property indemnities to certain of our customers in connection with the delivery, design, manufacture and sale of our products. If we are required to indemnify companies with whom we do business and we incur substantial costs, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If essential equipment or adequate supplies of satisfactory materials are not available to manufacture our products, we could be materially adversely affected. Our manufacturing operations depend upon obtaining deliveries of equipment and adequate supplies of materials on a timely basis. We purchase equipment and materials from a number of suppliers. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supply to us or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Because the equipment that we purchase is complex, it is difficult for us to substitute one supplier for another or one piece of equipment for another. Some raw materials we use in the manufacture of our products are available from a limited number of suppliers or only from a limited number of suppliers in a particular region. In addition, we purchase raw materials such as gold which prices on the world markets have fluctuated significantly during recent periods. Our manufacturing operations also depend upon the quality and usability of the materials we use in our products, including raw materials and wafers we receive from our suppliers. If the materials we receive from our suppliers do not meet our manufacturing requirements or product specifications, are not obtained in a timely manner or if there are significant increases in costs of materials, we may be materially adversely affected. We also rely on purchasing commercial memory die such as DRAM from third-party suppliers to incorporate these die into multi-chip package products. The availability of these third-party purchased commercial die is subject to market availability, and the process technology roadmaps and manufacturing capacities of our vendors. In addition, some of our suppliers may also be our competitors. Interruption of supply from a competitor that is a supplier or otherwise or increased demand in the industry could cause shortages and price increases in various essential materials. If we are unable to procure these materials, or if the materials we receive from our suppliers do not meet our production requirements or product specifications, we may have to reduce our manufacturing operations or our manufacturing yields may be adversely affected. Such a reduction and yield issues have in the past and could in the future have a material adverse effect on us. Costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on us. One or more of our products may be found to be defective after the product has been shipped to customers in volume. The cost of product replacements or product returns may be substantial, and our reputation with our customers would be damaged. In addition, we could incur substantial costs to implement modifications to fix defects. Any of these problems could materially adversely affect us. Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect us. As a result of our foreign operations, we have sales, expenses, assets and liabilities that are denominated in Japanese yen and other foreign currencies. For example: • some of our costs are denominated in Japanese yen, Thai baht and Malaysian ringgit; 30 Table of Contents • sales of our products to, and purchases from, Spansion Japan are denominated in both US dollars and Japanese yen; and • some fixed asset purchases are denominated in Japanese yen and European Union euros. Consequently, movements in exchange rates could cause our net sales and expenses to fluctuate, affecting our profitability and cash flows. We are currently unable to and in the future may not be able to enter into hedging contracts on acceptable terms, if at all. Worldwide economic and political conditions may adversely affect demand for our products. We operate in more than ten countries and we derive a majority of our net sales outside the United States. Our business depends on the overall worldwide economic conditions and the economic and business conditions within our customers’ industries. Our business may also be affected by economic factors that are beyond our control, such as downturns in economic activity in a specific country or region. A further weakening of the worldwide economy or the economy of individual countries or the demand for our customers’ products may cause a greater decrease in demand for our products, which could materially adversely affect us. Our consolidated financial results could also be significantly and adversely affected by geopolitical concerns and world events, such as wars and terrorist attacks. Our net sales and financial results have been and could be negatively affected to the extent geopolitical concerns continue and similar events occur or are anticipated to occur. In particular, consequences of military action in the Middle East have in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect demand for our products and our relationship with various third parties with which we collaborate. In addition, terrorist attacks may negatively affect our operations, directly or indirectly, and such attacks or related armed conflicts may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. Furthermore, these attacks may make travel and the transportation of our products more difficult and more expensive, which could materially adversely affect us. The United States has been and may continue to be involved in armed conflicts that could have a further impact on our sales and our supply chain. Political and economic instability in some regions of the world may also result and could negatively impact our business. The consequences of armed conflicts are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have a material adverse effect on us. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. economy and worldwide financial markets. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on us. Our operations in foreign countries are subject to political and economic risks, which could have a material adverse effect on us. A significant portion of our planned wafer fabrication capacity for existing and future products is provided by third parties located in Japan and China, and nearly all final test and assembly of our products is performed at our facilities in Malaysia and Thailand and by third parties in China, Taiwan and Japan. In addition, we have international sales operations and, as part of our business strategy, we are continuing to seek to expand our product sales in high growth markets. The political and economic risks associated with our sales to, and operations in, foreign countries include: • expropriation; • changes in political or economic conditions; • changes in tax laws, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • difficulties in protecting our intellectual property; • difficulties in achieving headcount reductions; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; 31 Table of Contents • restrictions on transfers of funds and other assets of our subsidiaries between jurisdictions; • changes in freight and interest rates; • disruption in air transportation between the United States and our overseas facilities; and • loss or modification of exemptions for taxes and tariffs. Our subsidiary, Saifun, conducts business in Israel, which is affected and surrounded by unstable political, economic and military conditions. We cannot predict the effect of continued or increased violence in Lebanon or Gaza, or the effect of military action elsewhere in the Middle East. Continued armed conflicts or political instability in the region would harm business conditions and could adversely affect the combined company’s results of operations. Furthermore, several countries continue to restrict or ban business with Israel and Israeli companies. These restrictive laws and policies may limit the combined company’s ability to make sales in those countries, and, as a global company, may limit our own ability to efficiently administer our worldwide resources. Any conflict or uncertainty in the countries in which we operate, including public health or safety concerns, natural disasters or general economic factors, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws that could result in liabilities. Our properties and many aspects of our business operations are subject to various domestic and international environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to materials used in our products and manufacturing processes; chemical use and handling; waste minimization; discharge of pollutants into the environment; the treatment, transport, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes; and remediation of contamination. Certain of these laws and regulations require us to obtain permits for our operations, including permits related to the discharge of air pollutants and wastewater. From time to time, our facilities are subject to investigation by governmental regulators. Environmental compliance obligations and liability risks are inherent in many of our manufacturing and other activities. Any failure to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations or permits may subject us to a range of consequences, including fines, suspension of production, alteration of manufacturing processes, sales limitations, and criminal and civil liabilities or other sanctions. We could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of exposure to hazardous materials used, stored, released, disposed of by us or located at or under our facilities, or for other environmental or natural resource damage. Certain environmental laws, including the U.S. Comprehensive, Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or the Superfund Act, impose joint and several liability on current and previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances and costs related to damages to natural resources. Liability can attach even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. These environmental laws also can result in liability for persons, like us, who arrange for hazardous substances to be sent to disposal or treatment facilities, in the event such facilities are found to be contaminated. Such persons can be responsible for cleanup costs at a disposal or treatment facility, even if they never owned or operated the contaminated facility. One property where we currently conduct research and development operations is listed on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Superfund National Priorities List. However, other parties currently are responsible for all investigation, cleanup and remediation activities. Although we have not been named a responsible party at this site, if we were so named, costs associated with the cleanup of the site could have material adverse effect upon us. We have not been named a responsible party at any Superfund or other contaminated site. If we were ever so named, costs associated with the cleanup of the site could be material. Additionally, contamination that has not yet been identified could exist at one or more of our facilities, and identification of such contamination could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business is subject to complex and dynamic environmental regulatory schemes. While we have budgeted for reasonably foreseeable environmental expenditures, we cannot assure you that environmental laws will not change or become more stringent in the future. Future environmental regulations could require us to 32 Table of Contents procure expensive pollution abatement or remediation equipment; to modify product designs; or to incur other expenses associated with compliance with such regulations. For example, the European Union and China recently began imposing stricter requirements regarding reduced lead content in semiconductor packaging. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, or liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business, worldwide operations and the operations of our suppliers could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could harm our future net sales and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations and business could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, such as a world health crisis, fire, earthquake, tsunami, volcano eruption, flood, hurricane, power loss, power shortage, telecommunications failure or similar events, which could harm our future net sales and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. For example, during the first quarter of fiscal 2008, our business was adversely affected by severe weather conditions in China which caused us to experience decreased demand for our products in that region. In addition, our corporate headquarters are located near major earthquake fault lines in California, Spansion Japan’s wafer fabrication facilities and Fujitsu’s manufacturing facilities are located near major earthquake fault lines in Japan. Also, our assembly and test facilities located in Malaysia and Thailand, and our subcontractors’ assembly and test facilities in China and other countries in Asia may be affected by tsunamis. In the event of a major earthquake or tsunami, we could experience loss of life of our employees, destruction of facilities or other business interruptions. If such business disruptions result in cancellations of customer orders or contribute to a general decrease in economic activity or demand for our products, or directly impact our marketing, manufacturing, financial, and logistics functions, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, the operations of our suppliers could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could cause shortages and price increases in various essential materials, which are required to manufacture our products or commercial memory die such as DRAMs for incorporation into our MCP products. If we are unable to procure an adequate supply of materials that are required for us to manufacture our products, or if the operations of our other suppliers of such materials are affected by an event that causes a significant business disruption, then we may have to reduce our manufacturing operations. Such a reduction could in the future have a material adverse effect on us. AMD and Fujitsu may continue to use all of our intellectual property and the intellectual property they have transferred to us. In connection with our reorganization as Spansion LLC in June 2003, AMD and Fujitsu transferred approximately 400 patents and patent applications to us. In addition, AMD and Fujitsu contributed additional patents to us at the time of our initial public offering. However, both AMD and Fujitsu have retained the rights to use any patents contributed to us for an unlimited period of time. In addition, under their respective patent cross-license agreements with us, AMD and Fujitsu have also obtained licenses to our present and future patents with effective filing dates prior to the later of June 30, 2013, or such date on which they have transferred all of their shares in us, although the scope of patents under license can be impacted by a change in control of the parties or their semiconductor groups. These licenses continue until the last to expire of the patents under license expires and provide AMD and Fujitsu with licenses to all of our present and future patents in existence through such cross-license termination date. Furthermore, we entered into an Amended and Restated Intellectual Property Contribution and Ancillary Matters Agreement with AMD and Fujitsu in connection with our reorganization as Spansion Inc. in December 2005. Pursuant to that agreement, subject to our confidentiality obligations to third parties, and only for so long as AMD’s and Fujitsu’s ownership interests in us remain above specific minimum levels, we are obligated to identify any of our technology to each of AMD and Fujitsu, and to provide copies of and training with respect to that technology to them. In addition, pursuant to this agreement we have granted a 33 Table of Contents non-exclusive, perpetual, irrevocable fully paid and royalty-free license of our rights, other than patent and trademark rights, in that technology to each of AMD and Fujitsu. Under our non-competition agreement, both AMD and Fujitsu have agreed that they will not directly or indirectly engage in a business, and have agreed to divest any acquired business, that manufactures or supplies standalone semiconductor devices (including single chip, multiple chip or system devices) containing certain Flash memory, which is the business in which we primarily compete. With respect to each of AMD and Fujitsu, this non-competition restriction will last until the earlier of (i) two years from the date such stockholder’s ownership in us falls to or below five percent, or (ii) the dissolution of our company. Upon emergence from bankruptcy under the Plan of Reorganization, we expect each of AMD’s and Fujitsu’s ownership to fall below the five percent threshold. After that time, should they ever decide to re-enter the Flash memory business, AMD or Fujitsu could use our present and future patents and technologies licensed by us to AMD and Fujitsu under the cross licenses and our Amended and Restated Intellectual Property Contribution and Ancillary Matters Agreement to compete against us. If either AMD or Fujitsu were to compete with us, we could be materially adversely affected. Provisions in our corporate governance documents as well as Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us that stakeholders may consider favorable. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to remove directors, a classified board of directors and limitations on action by our stockholders by written consent. In addition, our board of directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to make an acquisition of us more difficult. Although we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics and thereby provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stakeholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 