ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in an intensely competitive industry. Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market, national and global economic conditions and the ownership of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the events described in this section could cause our results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements made in this report, and could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Industry Specific Risk Factors Charter hire rates for dry bulk vessels have declined significantly and may decrease in the future, which may adversely affect our earnings. The drybulk shipping industry is cyclical with attendant volatility in charterhire rates and profitability. The degree of charter hire rate volatility among different types of drybulk vessels has varied widely, and charterhire rates for drybulk vessels have declined significantly from historically high levels. Fluctuations in charter rates result from changes in the supply and demand for vessel capacity and changes in the supply and demand for the major commodities carried by water internationally. Because the factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable, the nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. Factors that influence demand for vessel capacity include: · supply and demand for energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products; · changes in the exploration or production of energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products; · the location of regional and global exploration, production and manufacturing facilities; · the location of consuming regions for energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products; · the globalization of production and manufacturing; · global and regional economic and political conditions, including armed conflicts and terrorist activities; embargoes and strikes; · developments in international trade; · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including the distance cargo is transported by sea; · environmental and other regulatory developments; · currency exchange rates; and · weather. Factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: · number of newbuilding deliveries; · scrapping of older vessels; · vessel casualties; and · number of vessels that are out of service. 31 We anticipate that the future demand for our drybulk vessels will be dependent upon continued economic growth in the world’s economies, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the global drybulk fleet and the sources and supply of drybulk cargo to be transported by sea. The capacity of the global drybulk carrier fleet seems likely to increase and economic growth may not continue. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our ability to recharter our drybulk vessels upon the expiration or termination of their time charters and the charter rates payable under any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, the current state of the drybulk shipping market. If the drybulk shipping market is in a period of depression when our vessels’ charters expire, we may be forced to re-charter them at reduced rates or even possibly a rate whereby we incur a loss, which may reduce our earnings or make our earnings volatile. In addition, because the market value of our vessels may fluctuate significantly, we may incur losses when we sell vessels, which may adversely affect our earnings. If we sell vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our financial statements, the sale may be at less than the vessel’s carrying amount on our financial statements, resulting in a loss and a reduction in earnings. The dry bulk carrier charter market has deteriorated significantly since October 2008, which has adversely affected our revenues, earnings and profitability and our ability to comply with our loan covenants. The Baltic Dry bulk Index, or BDI, declined from a high of 11,793 in May 2008 to a low of 663 in December 2008, which represents a decline of 94%. The BDI fell over 70% during the month of October alone. Over the comparable period of May through December 2008, the high and low of the Baltic Panamax Index and the Baltic Capesize Index represent a decline of 96% and 99%, respectively. The decline in charter rates is due to various factors, including the lack of trade financing for purchases of commodities carried by sea, which has resulted in a significant decline in cargo shipments, and the excess supply of iron ore in China, which has resulted in falling iron ore prices and increased stockpiles in Chinese ports. The decline in charter rates in the dry bulk market also affects the value of our dry bulk vessels, which follows the trends of dry bulk charter rates, and earnings on our charters, and similarly, affects our cash flows, liquidity and compliance with the covenants contained in our loan agreements. Although our vessels are employed predominately on medium and long-term time charters, 15 of these are scheduled to expire in the next 12 months, at which time we will have to negotiate new employment for these vessels. If the very low charter rates in the dry bulk market continue to exist when we are required to renew these charters or in the future when our other charters must be renewed, this will have an adverse effect on our revenues, profitability, cash flows and our ability to comply with the financial covenants in our loan agreements. A further economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could exacerbate the effect of recent slowdowns in the economies of the United States and the European Union and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We anticipate a significant number of the port calls made by our vessels will continue to involve the loading or discharging of drybulk commodities in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, negative changes in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, particularly in China, may exacerbate the effect of recent slowdowns in the economies of the United States and the European Union and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. In recent years, China has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, which has had a significant impact on shipping demand. This rate of growth declined significantly in the second half of 2008 and it is likely that China and other countries in the Asia Pacific region will continue to experience slowed or even negative economic growth in the near future. Moreover, the current economic slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union and other Asian countries may further adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. China has recently announced a $586.0 billion stimulus package aimed in part at increasing investment and consumer spending and maintaining export growth in response to the recent slowdown in its economic growth. Our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, will likely be materially and adversely affected by a further economic downturn in any of these countries. 32 Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the government to regulate its economy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in such respects as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation and balance of payments position. Prior to 1978, the Chinese economy was a planned economy. Since 1978, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy. Annual and five year State Plans are adopted by the Chinese government in connection with the development of the economy. Although state-owned enterprises still account for a substantial portion of the Chinese industrial output, in general, the Chinese government is reducing the level of direct control that it exercises over the economy through State Plans and other measures. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a “market economy” and enterprise reform. Limited price reforms were undertaken, with the result that prices for certain commodities are principally determined by market forces. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition based upon the outcome of such experiments. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue a policy of economic reform the level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws, regulations or export and import restrictions, all of which could, adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The market values of our vessels have declined and may further decrease, which could limit the amount of funds that we can borrow or trigger certain financial covenants under our current or future credit facilities and/or we may incur a loss if we sell vessels following a decline in their market value. The fair market values of our vessels have generally experienced high volatility and have recently declined significantly. The market prices for secondhand Handymax and Supramax drybulk carriers have recently decreased sharply from their historically high levels.The fair market value of our vessels may continue to fluctuate (i.e., increase and decrease) depending on a number of factors including: · prevailing level of charter rates; · general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; · types and sizes of vessels; · supply and demand for vessels; · other modes of transportation; · cost of newbuildings; · governmental or other regulations; and · technological advances. If the fair market value of our vessels declines, we may not be in compliance with certain provisions of our credit facility and we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing. If we are not able to comply with the covenants in our credit facility and unable to remedy the relevant breach, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our fleet. In addition, if we sell one or more of our vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our consolidated financial statements, the sale may be less than the vessel’s carrying value on our consolidated financial statements, resulting in a loss and a reduction in earnings. Furthermore, if vessel values fall significantly we may have to record an impairment adjustment in our financial statements which could adversely affect our financial results. 33 An over-supply of drybulk carrier capacity may lead to reductions in charter hire rates and profitability. The market supply of drybulk carriers has been increasing, and the number of drybulk carriers on order are near historic highs. These newbuildings were delivered in significant numbers starting at the beginning of 2006 and continuing through 2008. As of December 2008, newbuilding orders had been placed for an aggregate of more than 70% of the existing global drybulk fleet on a deadweight basis, with deliveries expected during the next 36 months. An over-supply of drybulk carrier capacity may result in a reduction of charter hire rates. If such a reduction occurs, upon the expiration or termination of our vessels’ current charters we may only be able to re-charter our vessels at reduced or unprofitable rates or we may not be able to charter these vessels at all. World events could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks in such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, in London on July 7, 2005 and in Mumbai on November 26, 2008 and the continuing response of the United States and others to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, continues to cause uncertainty in the world’s financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The continuing presence of United States and other armed forces in Iraq and Afghanistan may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenues and costs. Terrorist attacks on vessels, such as the October 2002 attack on the M.V. Limburg, a very large crude carrier not related to us, may in the future also negatively affect our operations and financial condition and directly impact our vessels or our customers. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility and turmoil of the financial markets in the United States and globally. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and costs. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Throughout 2008 and early 2009, the frequency of piracy incidents has increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized by insurers as “war risk” zones, as the Gulf of Aden temporarily was in May 2008, or Joint War Committee (JWC) “war and strikes” listed areas, premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including due to employing onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Disruptions in world financial markets and the resulting governmental action in the United States and in other parts of the world could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could cause the market price of our common stock to further decline. The United States and other parts of the world are exhibiting deteriorating economic trends and have been in a recession. For example, the credit markets in the United States have experienced significant contraction, deleveraging and reduced liquidity, and the United States federal government and state governments have implemented and are considering a broad variety of governmental action and/or new regulation of the financial markets. Securities and futures markets and the credit markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The Commission, other regulators, self-regulatory organizations and exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies, and may effect changes in law or interpretations of existing laws. 34 Recently, a number of financial institutions have experienced serious financial difficulties and, in some cases, have entered bankruptcy proceedings or are in regulatory enforcement actions. The uncertainty surrounding the future of the credit markets in the United States and the rest of the world has resulted in reduced access to credit worldwide. We face risks attendant to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates, and instability in the banking and securities markets around the world, among other factors. Major market disruptions and the current adverse changes in market conditions and regulatory climate in the United States and worldwide may adversely affect our business or impair our ability to borrow amounts under our credit facilities or any future financial arrangements. We cannot predict how long the current market conditions will last. However, these recent and developing economic and governmental factors, together with the concurrent decline in charter rates and vessel values, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, have caused the trading price of our common shares on the Nasdaq Global Market to decline and could cause the price of our common shares to continue to decline. Our operating results will be subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could affect our operating results and the amount of available cash with which we can pay dividends. We operate our vessels in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter hire rates. To the extent we operate vessels in the spot market, this seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results, which could affect the amount of dividends that we pay to our stockholders from quarter to quarter. The drybulk sector is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and other raw materials in the northern hemisphere. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns in these months tend to disrupt vessel scheduling and supplies of certain commodities. As a result, our revenues from our drybulk carriers may be weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, our revenues from our drybulk carriers may be stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. While this seasonality will not affect our operating results as long as our fleet is employed on time charters, if our vessels are employed in the spot market in the future, it could materially affect our operating results. We are subject to international safety regulations and the failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to increased liability, may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the United Nation’s International Maritime Organization’s International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or the ISM Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive “Safety Management System” that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports.Each of the vessels that has been delivered to us is ISM Code-certified and we expect that each other vessel that we have agreed to purchase will be ISM Code-certified when delivered to us. In addition, vessel classification societies also impose significant safety and other requirements on our vessels. In complying with current and future environmental requirements, vessel-owners and operators may also incur significant additional costs in meeting new maintenance and inspection requirements, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining insurance coverage. Government regulation of vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental requirements, can be expected to become stricter in the future and require us to incur significant capital expenditures on our vessels to keep them in compliance. 35 The operation of our vessels is also affected by other government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which the vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. Because such conventions, laws, and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with such conventions, laws and regulations or the impact thereof on the resale prices or useful lives of our vessels. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted which could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and which may materially adversely affect our operations. We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, certificates, and financial assurances with respect to our operations. Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin and destination and trans shipment points. Inspection procedures may result in the seizure of contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business has inherent operational risks, which may not be adequately covered by insurance. Our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather, mechanical failures, human error, environmental accidents, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. In addition, transporting cargoes across a wide variety of international jurisdictions creates a risk of business interruptions due to political circumstances in foreign countries, hostilities, labor strikes and boycotts, the potential for changes in tax rates or policies, and the potential for government expropriation of our vessels. Any of these events may result in loss of revenues, increased costs and decreased cash flows to our customers, which could impair their ability to make payments to us under our charters. In the event of a casualty to a vessel or other catastrophic event, we will rely on our insurance to pay the insured value of the vessel or the damages incurred. Through our management agreements with our technical managers, we procure insurance for the vessels in our fleet employed under time charters against those risks that we believe the shipping industry commonly insures against. These insurances include marine hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which include pollution risks and crew insurances, and war risk insurance. Currently, the amount of coverage for liability for pollution, spillage and leakage available to us on commercially reasonable terms through protection and indemnity associations and providers of excess coverage is $1 billion per vessel per occurrence. We cannot assure you that we will be adequately insured against all risks or that we will be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our vessels in the future. For example, in the past more stringent environmental regulations have led to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. Additionally, our insurers may refuse to pay particular claims. Any significant loss or liability for which we are not insured could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Maritime claimants could arrest one or more of our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a claimant may seek to obtain security for its claim by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of money to have the arrest or attachment lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could attempt to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. 36 Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in a loss of earnings. A government could requisition one or more of our vessels for title or for hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our revenues and reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution as dividends to our stockholders. Company Specific Risk Factors We cannot assure you that our board of directors will declare dividends. Commencing with the fourth quarter of 2008, our board of directors has determined to suspend the payment of a dividend to our shareholders to increase cash flow, optimize financial flexibility and enhance internal growth. In the future, the declaration and payment of dividends, if any, will always be subject to the discretion of our board of directors, restrictions contained in our amended credit facility and the requirements of Marshall Islands law. The timing and amount of any dividends declared will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition and cash requirements and availability, our ability to obtain debt and equity financing on acceptable terms as contemplated by our growth strategy, the terms of our outstanding indebtedness and the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us. The international drybulk shipping industry is highly volatile, and we cannot predict with certainty the amount of cash, if any, that will be available for distribution as dividends in any period. Also, there may be a high degree of variability from period to period in the amount of cash that is available for the payment of dividends. We may incur expenses or liabilities or be subject to other circumstances in the future that reduce or eliminate the amount of cash that we have available for distribution as dividends, including as a result of the risks described in this Annual Report. Our growth strategy contemplates that we will finance our acquisitions of additional vessels through debt financings or the net proceeds of future equity issuances on terms acceptable to us. If financing is not available to us on acceptable terms, our board of directors may determine to finance or refinance acquisitions with cash from operations, which would reduce the amount of any cash available for the payment of dividends. Under the terms of our credit facility, we will not be permitted to pay dividends if there is a default or a breach of a loan covenant. In addition, we are permitted to pay dividends only in amounts up to our cumulative cash flows which is EBITDA (as defined in our credit agreement) less the aggregate amount of interest incurred and net amounts payable under interest rate hedging agreements during the relevant period and an agreed upon reserve for drydockings. Please see the section of this Annual Report entitled “Credit Facility” for more information relating to restrictions on our ability to pay dividends under the terms of our credit facility. The Republic of Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends other than from surplus (retained earnings and the excess of consideration received for the sale of shares above the par value of the shares) or while a company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent by the payment of such a dividend. We may not have sufficient surplus in the future to pay dividends and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient funds or surplus to make distributions to us. We can give no assurance that dividends will be paid at all. 37 We may have difficulty managing our planned growth properly. The acquisition and management of the 23 vessels in our operating fleet have imposed, and additional drybulk vessels that we may acquire in the future will impose, significant responsibilities on our management and staff. The addition of vessels to our fleet may require us to increase the number of our personnel. We will also have to manage our customer base so that we can provide continued employment for our vessels upon the expiration of our existing time charters. We intend to continue to grow our business. Our future growth will primarily depend on: · locating and acquiring suitable vessels; · obtaining required financing on acceptable terms; · identifying and consummating acquisitions; · enhancing our customer base; and · managing our expansion. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks, such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, the possibility that indemnification agreements will be unenforceable or insufficient to cover potential losses and difficulties associated with imposing common standards, controls, procedures and policies, obtaining additional qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and integrating newly acquired assets and operations into existing infrastructure. We cannot give any assurance that we will be successful in executing our growth plans or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with our future growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to borrow amounts under our credit facility and restrictive covenants in our credit facility may impose financial and other restrictions on us We entered into a senior secured revolving credit facility in July 2005. We used borrowings under the revolving credit facility to refinance a portion of our outstanding indebtedness at the time of our initial public offering in June 2005 and to fund vessel acquisitions. Since then we have amended and enhanced our credit facility periodically to accommodate our newbuilding program of 35 vessels, the first of which was delivered in June 2008 and eight of which we have converted in options to purchase vessels in the future. In July, 2008, we entered into an amendment to our revolving credit facility that, among other things, provided for an additional incremental commitment of up to $200 million under the same terms and conditions as the previously existing facility, subject to satisfaction of certain additional conditions, and amended the applicable margin rate under the facility. In December 2008, we entered into a further amendment to our credit facility to, among other changes, reduce the required minimum security value of our fleet from 130% to 100%, reduce the requirement minimum net worth requirement from $300 million to $75 million for 2009, subject to annual review thereafter, and amend the applicable interest margin to 1.75% over LIBOR. Our ability to borrow future amounts under our credit facility will be subject to the satisfaction of certain customary conditions precedent and compliance with terms and conditions included in the loan documents. In connection with vessel acquisitions, amounts borrowed may not exceed 75% of the value of the vessels securing our obligations under the credit facility. Our ability to borrow such amounts, in each case, will be subject to our lender’s approval of the vessel acquisition. Our lender’s approval will be based on the lender’s satisfaction of our ability to raise additional capital through equity issuances in amounts acceptable to our lender and the proposed employment of the vessel to be acquired. To the extent that we are not able to satisfy these requirements, including as a result of a decline in the value of our vessels, we may not be able to draw down the credit facility in connection with a vessel acquisition without obtaining a waiver or consent from the lender. 38 The credit facility also imposes operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability to, among other things: · pay dividends in the future in amounts exceeding our EBITDA, less the aggregate amount of interest incurred and net amounts payable under interest rate hedging agreements during the relevant period and an agreed upon reserve for drydockings; · change our Chief Executive Officer without the approval of our lender; · incur additional indebtedness; · change the flag, class or management of our vessels; · create liens on our assets; · sell our vessels; · merge or consolidate with, or transfer all or substantially all our assets to, another person; · enter into a new line of business; and · enter into a time charter or consecutive voyage charters that has a term that exceeds, or which by virtue of any optional extensions may exceed, thirteen months. In addition, we may not pay dividends if there is a default or a breach of a loan covenant under the credit facility or if the payment of the dividends would result in a default or breach of a loan covenant. Our indebtedness may also be accelerated if we experience a change of control. Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lender in order to engage in some corporate actions. Our lender’s interests may be different from ours and we cannot guarantee you that we will be able to obtain our lender’s permission when needed. This may limit our ability to pay dividends to you, finance our future operations, make acquisitions or pursue business opportunities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance indebtedness incurred under our credit facility. Our business strategy contemplates that we repay all or a portion of our acquisition related debt from time to time with the net proceeds of equity issuances. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance our indebtedness through equity offerings or otherwise on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If we are not able to refinance our indebtedness, we will have to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest of this indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate cash flow in amounts that are sufficient for these purposes. If we are not able to satisfy these obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans or sell our assets. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, any defaults by them, and the market value of our fleet, among other things, may materially affect our ability to obtain alternative financing. In addition, debt service payments under our credit facility or alternative financing may limit funds otherwise available for working capital, capital expenditures, payment of dividends and other purposes. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations, or if we otherwise default under our credit facility or an alternative financing arrangement, our lender could declare the debt, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable and foreclose on our fleet, which could result in the acceleration of other indebtedness that we may have at such time and the commencement of similar foreclosure proceedings by other lenders. In addition, if the recent financial difficulties experienced by financial institutions worldwide leads to such institutions being unable to meet their lending commitments, that inability could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our own capital commitment obligations under our newbuilding contracts and our ability to grow our fleet. If we are not able to borrow under our credit facility and are unable to find alternative sources of financing on terms that are acceptable to us or at all, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. Purchasing and operating secondhand vessels may result in increased operating costs and reduced fleet utilization. The 20 of the 23 Handymax drybulk vessels in our operating fleet at December 31, 2008, are all secondhand vessels. We have entered into contracts for the construction of 27 newbuilding vessels, the first three of which were delivered in 2008, and have options to acquire 8 additional vessels. We also may enter into additional newbuilding contracts and purchase additional secondhand vessels in the future. While we have the right to inspect previously owned vessels prior to purchase, such an inspection does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition that we would have if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. A secondhand vessel may have conditions or defects that we were not aware of when we bought the vessel and which may require us to incur costly repairs to the vessel. These repairs may require us to put a vessel into drydock, which would reduce our fleet utilization. Furthermore, we usually do not receive the benefit of warranties on secondhand vessels. 39 We are subject to certain risks with respect to our counterparties on contracts, and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business. We enter into, among other things, charter parties with our customers. Such agreements subject us to counterparty risks. The ability of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the maritime and offshore industries, the overall financial condition of the counterparty, charter rates received for specific types of vessels, and various expenses. Consistent with drybulk shipping industry practice, we have not independently analyzed the creditworthiness of the charterers. In addition, in depressed market conditions, our charterers may no longer need a vessel that is currently under charter or may be able to obtain a comparable vessel at lower rates. As a result, charterers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing charter parties or avoid their obligations under those contracts. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We depend upon a few significant customers for a large part of our revenues and the loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect our financial performance. We derive a significant part of our revenues from a small number of charterers. The charterers’ payments to us under their charters are our sole source of revenue. Some of our charterers are privately owned companies for which limited credit and financial information was available to us in making our assessment of counterparty risk when we entered into our charter. In addition, the ability of each of our charterers to perform its obligations under a charter will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control. These factors may include general economic conditions, the condition of the drybulk shipping industry, the charter rates received for specific types of vessels and various operating expenses. If one or more of these charterers terminates its charter or chooses not to re-charter our vessel or is unable to perform under its charter with us and we are not able to find a replacement charter, we could suffer a loss of revenues that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution as dividends to our stockholders. In addition, we may be required to change the flagging or registration of the related vessel and may incur additional costs, including maintenance and crew costs if a charterer were to default on its obligations. Our stockholders do not have any recourse against our charterers. In the highly competitive international shipping industry, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources. Our vessels are employed in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of drybulk cargo by sea is intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its operators to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter the drybulk shipping industry and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions and may be able to offer lower charter rates and higher quality vessels than we are able to offer. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may negatively impact the effectiveness of our management and results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team. We have entered into an employment contract with our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Sophocles Zoullas. Our success will depend upon our ability to retain key members of our management team and to hire new members as may be necessary. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining replacement personnel could have a similar effect. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance on any of our officers. 40 Risks associated with operating ocean going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which could adversely affect our revenues and stock price. The operation of ocean going vessels carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: · marine disaster; · environmental accidents; · cargo and property losses or damage; · business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions; and · piracy. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues. The involvement of our vessels in an environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. The aging of our fleet may result in increased operating costs in the future, which could adversely affect our earnings. In general, the cost of maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increases with the age of the vessel. Although the weighted average age of the 23 Handymax drybulk vessels in our operating fleet as of December 31, 2008 is approximately 6 years, as our fleet ages, we will incur increased costs. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations and safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may also require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. We may have to pay tax on United States source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as United States source shipping income and such income is subject to a 4% United States federal income tax without allowance for any deductions, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder. We believe that we and each of our subsidiaries qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we will take this position for United States federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption after the offering and thereby cause us to become subject to United States federal income tax on our United States source shipping income. For example, there is a risk that we could no longer qualify for exemption under Section 883 of the Code for a particular taxable year if other shareholders with a five percent or greater interest in our stock were, in combination with to own 50% or more of our outstanding shares of our stock on more than half the days during the taxable year. Due to the factual nature of the issues involved, we can give no assurances on our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. 41 In addition, changes in the Code, the Treasury regulations or the interpretation thereof by the Internal Revenue Service or the courts could adversely affect our ability to take advantage of the exemption under Section 883. If we are not entitled to this exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, we would be subject for such taxable year to a 4% United States federal income tax on our United States source shipping income. The imposition of this taxation could have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our stockholders. Based on the current operation of our vessels, if we were subject to this tax, our United States federal income tax liability would be approximately $1,400,000 per year. Because the operations of our vessels are under the control of third party charterers, we can give no assurance that our United States federal income tax liability would be substantially higher. However, since no more that 50% of our shipping income would be treated as derived from U.S. sources, our maximum tax liability under the 4% tax regime would never exceed 2% of our shipping income. United States tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have adverse United States federal income tax consequences to United States holders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” United States stockholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous United States federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our current method of operation, we do not believe that we have been, are or will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time chartering activities does not constitute “passive income,” and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our method of operation. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our United States stockholders would face adverse United States tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those stockholders made an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such stockholders, as discussed below under “United States Federal Income Taxation of United States Holders”), such stockholders would be liable to pay United States federal income tax upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common stock at the then prevailing income tax rates applicable to ordinary income plus interest as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the stockholder’s holding period of our common stock. Please see the section of this Form 10-K entitled “Tax Considerations—United States Federal Income Taxation of United States Holders” for a more comprehensive discussion of the United States federal income tax consequences to United States stockholders if we are treated as a PFIC. 42 Our vessels may suffer damage and we may face unexpected drydocking costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. The loss of earnings while our vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings and reduce the amount of cash that we have available for dividends. We may not have insurance that is sufficient to cover these costs or losses and may have to pay drydocking costs not covered by our insurance. We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations and to make dividend payments. We are a holding company and our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to satisfy our financial obligations and to make dividend payments in the future depends on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, our board of directors may exercise its discretion not to declare or pay dividends. We do not intend to obtain funds from other sources to pay dividends. As we expand our business, we may need to improve our operating and financial systems and will need to recruit suitable employees and crew for our vessels. Our current operating and financial systems may not be adequate as we implement our plan to expand the size of our fleet and our attempts to improve those systems may be ineffective. In addition, as we expand our fleet, we will need to recruit suitable additional seafarers and shore side administrative and management personnel. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to hire suitable employees as we expand our fleet. If we or our crewing agent encounters business or financial difficulties, we may not be able to adequately staff our vessels. If we are unable to grow our financial and operating systems or to recruit suitable employees as we expand our fleet, our financial performance may be adversely affected and, among other things, the amount of cash available for distribution as dividends to our stockholders may be reduced. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us for the loss of a vessel, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have procured hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes environmental damage and pollution insurance coverage and war risk insurance for our fleet. We do not maintain, for our vessels, insurance against loss of hire, which covers business interruptions that result from the loss of use of a vessel. We may not be adequately insured against all risks. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our fleet in the future. The insurers may not pay particular claims. Our insurance policies may contain deductibles for which we will be responsible and limitations and exclusions which may increase our costs or lower our revenue. Moreover, insurers may default on claims they are required to pay. If our insurance is not enough to cover claims that may arise, the deficiency may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If the recent volatility in LIBOR continues, it could affect our profitability, earnings and cash flow. LIBOR has recently been volatile, with the spread between LIBOR and the prime lending rate widening significantly at times. These conditions are the result of the recent disruptions in the international credit markets. Because the interest rates borne by our outstanding indebtedness fluctuate with changes in LIBOR, if this volatility were to continue, it would affect the amount of interest payable on our debt, which in turn, could have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. 43 Risks Relating to Our Common Stock We are incorporated in the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or the BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the laws of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in the United States. The rights of stockholders of companies incorporated in the Marshall Islands may differ from the rights of stockholders of companies incorporated in the United States. While the BCA provides that it is to be interpreted according to the laws of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, there have been few, if any, court cases interpreting the BCA in the Marshall Islands and we can not predict whether Marshall Islands courts would reach the same conclusions as United States courts. Thus, you may have more difficulty in protecting your interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling stockholders than would stockholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction which has developed a relatively more substantial body of case law. Future sales of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may depress the market price for our common stock. These sales could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities in the future. We intend to issue additional shares of our common stock in the future. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize us to issue 100 million shares of common stock of which 47,031,300 shares are outstanding as of December 31, 2008. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents, as well as our shareholder rights plan, could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, or could make it difficult for our stockholders to replace or remove our current board of directors, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Several provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it difficult for our stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, the same provisions, as well as our shareholder rights plan, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions will include: · authorizing our board of directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock without stockholder approval; · providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three year terms; · authorizing vacancies on our board of directors to be filled only by a vote of the majority of directors then in office and specifically denying our stockholders the right to fill vacancies on the board; · establishing certain advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; · prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; · limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; · authorizing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock entitled to vote for the directors; 44 · prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and · establishing supermajority voting provisions with respect to amendments to certain provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws. In addition to the provision described above, on November 9, 2007, our board of directors adopted a shareholder rights plan and declared a dividend distribution of one Right for each outstanding share of our common stock to shareholders of record on the close of business on November 23, 2007. Each Right is nominally exercisable, upon the occurrence of certain events, for one one-thousandth of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, at a purchase price of $125.00 per unit, subject to adjustment. The Rights may further discourage a third party from making an unsolicited proposal to acquire us, as exercise of the Rights would cause substantial dilution to such third party attempting to acquire us. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. 45 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 