ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks materialize, our business could be materially harmed, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We have recently transformed our business through the implementation of a new business strategy. If this strategy is unsuccessful, we will be materially adversely affected. Shortly after our chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings (the Chapter 11 Cases) commenced, we began implementing a new business strategy focused primarily on exiting a large portion of the wireless Flash memory market in order to reduce significantly our engineering expenses. We remain dedicated to, and focused on, the embedded portion of the Flash memory market and intend to continue to selectively engage in portions of the wireless market where we believe we can do so advantageously. The embedded market is more mature than the wireless market and is expected to grow more slowly than some other sectors of the semiconductor industry. In addition, the embedded market historically has been, and we anticipate that it will continue to be, subject to 12 Table of Contents selling price reductions. If we are unable to successfully address these challenges and execute this new business strategy, our business will be materially adversely affected. In addressing these challenges, our new business strategy has involved, and will continue to involve, cost containment, in particular with respect to our workforce and we will continue to make judgments as to whether we should further reduce, relocate or otherwise change our workforce. Costs incurred in connection with such workforce changes, should they occur, may be higher than estimated. In addition, such workforce changes may impair our ability to achieve our current or future business objectives. In addition, any workforce changes may not be effected on the planned timetable and may result in the recording of additional charges. Similarly, any decision by us to further limit investment in, or exit or dispose of parts of, our business may result in the recording of additional charges. As part of our review of our restructured business, we look at the recoverability of tangible and intangible assets. Future market conditions may indicate these assets are not recoverable based on changes in forecasts of future business performance and the estimated useful life of these assets, and this may trigger further write-downs of these assets which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our new business strategy may also include considering strategic transactions, such as acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, alliances or co-production programs, as such opportunities arise. We may not be able to effect any strategic transaction or if we enter into transactions, we may not realize the benefits we anticipate. Moreover, in the case of acquisitions, the integration of separate companies involves a number of integration risks. Consummating any acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, alliances or co-production programs could result in the incurrence of additional transaction-related expenses, as well as unforeseen contingent liabilities, which could materially adversely affect us. Our business has been characterized by selling prices that decline over time, which can negatively affect our results of operations. Historically, the selling prices of our products have decreased during the products’ lives, and we expect this trend to continue. When our selling prices decline, our net sales and gross margins also decline unless we are able to compensate by selling more units and thereby reducing our manufacturing costs per unit or by introducing and selling new, higher margin products with higher densities and/or advanced features. If the selling prices for our products continue to decline, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. During downturns, periods of extremely intense competition, or the presence of oversupply in the industry, the selling prices for our products have declined at a rapid rate over relatively short time periods as compared to historical rates of decline. We are unable to predict selling prices for any future periods and may experience unanticipated, sharp declines in selling prices for our products. When such pricing declines occur, we may not be able to mitigate the effects by selling more or higher margin units, or by reducing our manufacturing costs. In such circumstances, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. The Flash memory market is highly cyclical and has experienced severe downturns that have materially adversely affected, and may in the future materially adversely affect, our business. The Flash memory market is highly cyclical and in the past has experienced severe downturns, generally as a result of wide fluctuations in supply and demand, constant and rapid technological change, continuous new product introductions and price erosion. Our financial performance has been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by these downturns. We have incurred substantial losses in past downturns, including the most recent downturn, due principally to: • substantial declines in selling prices, particularly due to competitive pressures and an imbalance in product supply and demand; and • a decline in demand for end-user products that incorporate our products. 13 Table of Contents Our historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of what our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows will be in the future. If our net sales decline in the future, or if these or other similar conditions continue or occur again in the future, we would likely be materially adversely affected. If demand for consumer products, industrial products or mobile phones utilizing Flash memory declines, as we experienced during the worldwide global recession, our business could be materially adversely affected. Also, if the functionality of successive generations of such products does not require increasing Flash memory density or if such products no longer require the type of Flash memory product we produce due to alternative technologies or otherwise, our operating results would be materially adversely affected. We cannot be certain that the Chapter 11 Cases will not adversely affect our operations going forward. Although we emerged from the Chapter 11 Cases on May 10, 2010, we cannot provide assurance that our prior bankruptcy will not adversely affect our future operations. Our suppliers and vendors could stop providing supplies or services to us or provide such supplies or services only on unfavorable terms such as “cash on delivery,” “cash on order” or other terms that could have an adverse impact on our short-term cash flows. In addition, the fact that we recently emerged from the Chapter 11 Cases may adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and maintain contracts that are critical to our operations. We lost a significant amount of market share while in bankruptcy as certain customers were unwilling to work with a vendor in bankruptcy and others reduced their dependence on us by shifting their business to other vendors. There can be no assurance as to whether we will be able, or how long it may take, to regain or retain all or any portion of that lost market share. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel at reasonable costs, we may not be able to achieve our business objectives. We are dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of our senior management and other key employees to execute our current business plans and lead us through the implementation of the Plan of Reorganization. Competition for certain key positions and specialized technical and sales personnel in the high-technology industry remains strong. The Chapter 11 Cases, along with workforce reductions, created uncertainty that led to an increase in unwanted attrition and additional challenges in attracting and retaining new qualified personnel. We have lost many key employees with long tenures and broad knowledge about our technology and historical operations and we are at risk of losing or being unable to hire talent critical to a successful reorganization and ongoing operation of our business. If we are not able to attract, recruit or retain qualified employees (including as a result of headcount or salary reductions), we may not have the personnel necessary to successfully implement the Plan of Reorganization that was approved by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court on April 16, 2010 in connection with our emergence from the Chapter 11 Cases (the Plan). We also may not be able to successfully implement our new business strategy. If this occurs our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. We may not satisfy the covenants, financial tests and ratios in our debt instruments, which if not met, would have a material adverse effect on us. Our credit agreement, or Senior Secured Term Loan, our loan and security agreement, or Revolving Credit Facility, and the indenture governing our 7.875 percent Unsecured Senior Notes due 2017 require us to comply with covenants, financial tests and ratios. We cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy or comply with these covenants, financial tests and ratios, as our ability to do so may be affected by events beyond our control. If we fail to satisfy or comply with such covenants, financial tests and ratios, or if we disagree with our lenders about whether or not we are in compliance, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain waivers or amendments if required to avoid a default. A breach of any of the provisions, covenants, financial tests or ratios under our debt instruments could prevent us from borrowing under our Revolving Credit Facility and result in an 14 Table of Contents event of default under the applicable agreement, which in turn could trigger cross-defaults under other debt instruments, any of which would materially adversely affect us. Transfers or issuances of our equity, or a debt restructuring, may impair or reduce our ability to utilize our net operating loss carry-forwards and certain other tax attributes in the future. Pursuant to U.S. tax rules, a corporation is generally permitted to deduct from taxable income in any year net operating losses (NOLs) carried forward from prior years. We have NOL carry forwards in the United States of approximately $870.0 million as of December 26, 2010. Our ability to utilize these NOL carry forwards could be subject to a significant limitation if we were to undergo an “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks that could materially adversely affect us. We have in the past and plan in the future to enter into foundry, subcontractor and other arrangements with third parties to meet demand for our products. Third-party manufacturers we have used in the past or expect to use in the future for foundry and other manufacturing services include Texas Instruments, or TI, Fujitsu Semiconductors Limited, or FSL, Elpida Memory, Inc., or Elpida, and Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation, or SMIC. We also use independent contractors to perform some of the assembly, testing and packaging of our products, including ChipMOS Technologies Limited. We depend on these manufacturers to allocate to us a portion of their manufacturing capacity sufficient to meet our needs. Third-party manufacturers are generally under no obligation to provide us with any specified minimum quantity of product. We also depend on these manufacturers to produce products of acceptable quality and at acceptable manufacturing yields and to deliver those products to us on a timely basis at acceptable prices. In addition, we rely on these manufacturers to invest capital into their facilities and process technologies to meet our needs for new products using advanced process technologies. Given our recent emergence from the Chapter 11 Cases and the volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets worldwide, we cannot assure you that they will make the investments in their facilities previously contemplated. We cannot assure you that these manufacturers will be able to meet our near-term or long-term manufacturing requirements and may not be able to attain qualification from our customers, which may be required prior to production of products at a third party facility. In addition, any significant change in the payment terms we have with these manufacturers could adversely affect us. In the past, Spansion Japan Limited, a former wholly-owned subsidiary of Spansion LLC, or Spansion Japan, facilitated distribution of our products in Japan, manufactured and supplied sorted and unsorted silicon wafers for us, and provided sort services to us. In August 2010, we entered into a new foundry agreement with TI as a result of TI’s purchase of two wafer fabrication facilities and equipment from Spansion Japan. Accordingly, we rely on TI to manufacture wafers for and supply sort services to us. A sudden and unanticipated reduction or cessation of the supply of goods and services from TI would likely be disruptive and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Third party manufacturers with whom we contract also make products for other companies, including certain of our competitors, and/or for themselves and could choose to prioritize capacity for themselves or other customers beyond any minimum guaranteed amounts, reduce deliveries to us or, in the absence of price guarantees, increase the prices they charge us on short notice, such that we may not be able to pass cost increases on to our customers. The likelihood of this occurring may be greater as a result of the Chapter 11 Cases. We may be unable to secure an alternative supply for specific products in a short timeframe or at all at an acceptable cost to satisfy our production requirements. In addition, we may be required to incur additional development, manufacturing and other costs to establish alternative sources of supply. Other risks associated with our increased dependence on third-party manufacturers include: their ability to adapt to our proprietary technology, reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields and cost, misappropriation of our intellectual property, reduced ability to manage inventory and parts and risks associated with operating in foreign 15 Table of Contents countries. If we are unable to secure sufficient or reliable suppliers of wafers or obtain the necessary assembly, testing and packaging services, our ability to meet customer demand for our products may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We rely on Fujitsu Semiconductors Limited to distribute our products in Japan. We currently rely on FSL through its subsidiary, Fujitsu Electronics Inc., to distribute our products to customers in Japan, which is an important geographic market for us. Under our distribution agreement with FSL, FSL has agreed to use its best efforts to promote the sale of our products in Japan and to other customers served by FSL. In the event that we reasonably determine that FSL’s sales performance in Japan and to those customers served by FSL is not satisfactory based on specified criteria, then we have the right to require FSL to propose and implement an agreed-upon corrective action plan. If we reasonably believe that the corrective action plan is inadequate, we can take steps to remedy deficiencies ourselves through means that include appointing another distributor as a supplementary distributor to sell products in Japan and to customers served by FSL. Pursuing these actions would be costly and disruptive to the sales of our products in Japan. If FSL’s sales performance in Japan is unsatisfactory or if we are unable to successfully maintain our distribution agreement and relationship with FSL and we cannot timely find a suitable supplementary distributor, we could be materially adversely affected. Under the terms of our distribution agreement with FSL, either party may terminate the distribution agreement, for convenience upon 60 days written notice to the other party. If FSL unexpectedly terminates its distribution agreement with us, or otherwise ceases its support of our customers in Japan, we would be required to develop and rely on a relationship with another distributor or establish our own local sales organization and support functions. We cannot be certain that we would be successful in selling our products to customers currently served by FSL or new customers. If customers currently served by FSL, or potential new customers, refused to purchase our products directly from us or from another distributor, or either it or we are not successful in distributing our products, our sales in Japan might decline, and we could be materially adversely affected. Inaccurate forecasting of customer demand could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial results and may lead to excess inventory and poor gross margins. Although our manufacturing cycle times are relatively long, often in excess of ten weeks, we nevertheless compete in a market where suppliers’ ability to respond quickly to new orders is a competitive differentiator. Thus, we must forecast customer demand and produce sufficient amounts of our products in order to fill current and future orders even though demand is volatile and difficult to predict. To forecast demand and value inventory, we consider, among other factors, the inventory on hand, historical customer demand data, backlog data, competitiveness of product offerings, market conditions and product life cycles. If we are unable to accurately assess these factors and anticipate future demand or market conditions, inventory write-downs may be required and would be reflected in cost of sales in the period the write-down is made. Similarly, when customers change orders booked with us, our planned manufacturing capacity may be greater or less than actual demand, resulting in less than optimal capacity usage. When this occurs, we adjust our production levels but such adjustments may not prevent our production of excess inventory. An inability to address challenges like the ones described above would have a negative impact on our gross margin in that period. Moreover, inaccurate forecasting could also result in excess or obsolete inventory that would reduce our margins or shortages in inventory that would cause us to fail to meet customer demand. If we are unable to produce the types and quantities of products required by our customers in the timeframes and on the delivery schedules required by our customers, we may lose customers or, in certain circumstances, be liable for losses incurred by our customers, which would materially adversely affect our business and financial results. Industry overcapacity could require us to take actions which could have a material adverse effect on us. Semiconductor companies with their own manufacturing facilities and specialist semiconductor foundries, which are subcontractors that manufacture semiconductors designed by others, have added significant capacity in 16 Table of Contents recent years and during the first half of 2010 a number of companies announced plans to do so again. In 2008, the significant excess capacity led to oversupply and a downturn in the memory industry. The contraction of the worldwide economy, further compounded industry overcapacity. Fluctuations in the growth rate of industry capacity relative to the growth rate in demand for Flash memory products can contribute to cyclicality in the Flash memory market, which has in the past and may in the future negatively impact our selling prices and materially adversely affect us. It is difficult to predict future growth or decline in the markets we serve, making it very difficult to estimate requirements for production capacity. If our target markets do not grow as we anticipate, we may under-utilize our manufacturing capacity or we may be contractually obligated to purchase minimum quantities of certain products from our subcontractors. This may result in write-downs or write-offs of inventories and losses on products the demand for which is lower than we anticipate. In addition, during periods of industry overcapacity, customers do not generally order products as far in advance of the scheduled shipment date as they do during periods when our industry is operating closer to capacity, which can exacerbate the difficulty in forecasting capacity requirements and may result in increased inventory levels. Many of our costs are fixed. Additionally, pursuant to some of our subcontractor and foundry arrangements with third parties we may incur and pay penalties as a result of our agreements to pay for a certain amount of product even if we do not accept delivery of all of such amount. Accordingly, during periods in which we under-utilize our manufacturing capacity as a result of reduced demand for some of our products, our costs cannot be reduced in proportion to the reduced net sales for such periods. When this occurs, our operating results may be materially adversely affected. A further significant shift in the Flash memory market to NAND architecture would materially adversely affect us. Flash memory products are generally based on either NOR or NAND architecture. To date, our Flash memory products have been based on NOR architecture which are typically produced at a higher cost-per-bit than NAND-based products. We are developing our NAND architecture based on charge trapping technology primarily to address embedded applications currently served by NAND-based products or potentially served by NAND-based products in the future, but we cannot be certain that our NAND products will satisfactorily address those market needs. Since 2004, industry sales of NAND-based Flash memory products increased as a percentage of total Flash memory sales compared to sales of NOR-based Flash memory products, resulting in NAND vendors in aggregate gaining a greater share of the overall Flash memory market and NOR vendors in aggregate losing overall market share. We expect the Flash memory market trend of decreasing market share for NOR-based Flash memory products relative to NAND-based Flash memory products to continue for the foreseeable future. Customers manufacturing products for embedded applications may increasingly choose floating gate NAND-based Flash memory products over our NOR or NAND Flash memory products based on our charge trapping technology. If this occurs, our sales may be materially adversely affected. Moreover, some of our competitors are able to manufacture floating gate NAND-based Flash memory products on 300-millimeter wafers produced at a lower cost than we can currently achieve. In addition, some of our competitors may choose to utilize more advanced manufacturing process technologies than we may have available in order to offer competitive products at lower costs or with higher densities. In addition, even if products based on NAND architecture are unsuccessful in displacing products based on NOR architecture, the average selling price for our products may be adversely affected by a significant decline in the price for NAND-based Flash memory products. Such a decline may result in downward price pressure in the overall Flash memory market affecting the price we can obtain for our NOR-based Flash memory products, which would adversely affect us. We believe such downward pricing pressure was a factor in the significant 17 Table of Contents declines in the selling prices of our products in 2008. If the prices for NAND Flash memory products similarly decline in the future, we may be materially adversely affected. If we fail to successfully identify new applications and markets for our products, our future operating results would be materially adversely affected. We are identifying new applications and opportunities for our products beyond our traditional customer base and in some cases plan to deploy our Flash memory solutions beyond current Flash memory markets. However, some of these opportunities require that we succeed in creating, marketing, gaining customer acceptance of, and deploying these new system architectures into, a customer base where we do not have historic business relationships and where our solution is required to replace established and proven solutions. In some cases our solutions rely on third parties to contribute a significant and necessary component of the solution without which the solution will not be viable. If we are unsuccessful in our attempts to bring new products to market due to our failures or those of third parties, experience significant delays in generating sales, fail to establish their value or face competition from third parties or incumbent suppliers that result in lower margins than expected, our future operating results would be materially adversely affected. We cannot be certain that we will have sufficient resources to invest in the level of research and development required to remain competitive or that our substantial research and development investments will lead to timely improvements in technology needed to successfully develop, introduce and commercialize new products and technologies. The Flash memory industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. In order to compete, we are required to make substantial investments in research and development for product design, process technologies and production techniques in an effort to design and manufacture advanced Flash memory products. For example, in connection with our new business strategy, our research and development expenses for fiscal 2009 and 2010 were $136.4 million and $100.5 million, or approximately 10 percent and 9 percent of our total net sales, respectively. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources independently or through joint development agreements to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required for us to remain competitive, which could materially adversely affect us. As part of our reorganization, our strategy has changed to increasingly seek to share research and development costs with third parties. For example, in 2009, we entered into a joint development agreement with Elpida for the development of products based on NAND architecture. However we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate such arrangements for more of our research and development needs, or that such arrangements will result in commercially successful technology and products in a timely manner or at all. We will be dependent on the third parties in such agreements to continue to invest financial and skilled human resources, and we cannot assure you that such third parties will make the necessary investments, the absence of which would materially adversely affect our business. Our success depends to a significant extent on our ability to develop, qualify, produce, introduce and gain market acceptance of new product designs and improvements that provide value to Flash memory customers. Our ability to develop and qualify new products and related technologies to meet evolving industry requirements at prices acceptable to our customers and on a timely basis is critical to our competitiveness in our target markets. If we are delayed in developing or qualifying new products or technologies, we could be materially adversely affected. Competitors may introduce new memory or other technologies that may make our Flash memory products uncompetitive or obsolete. Our competitors are working on a number of new competitive technologies, including ferroelectric random access memory, or FRAM, magneto resistive random access memory, or MRAM, polymer, charge trapping and 18 Table of Contents phase-change based memory, or PCM, technologies. If such products are successfully developed and commercialized as a viable alternative to MirrorBit or floating gate Flash memory, these other products could pose a competitive threat to existing Flash memory companies, including us. In addition, some of the licensees and customers of Saifun Semiconductors Ltd., or Saifun, which we purchased in 2008 and renamed Spansion Israel Ltd., are our competitors or work with our competitors and possess licenses from Spansion Israel Ltd. for intellectual property associated with charge trapping Flash memory technology. Use of this charge trapping intellectual property or use of independently developed charge trapping Flash memory technology by our competitors, if successfully developed and commercialized, may allow these competitors to develop Flash memory products that may compete with our products based on charge trapping technology. If we are unable to compete with these new technologies, we may be materially adversely affected. Intense competition in the Flash memory market could materially adversely affect us. Our principal NOR Flash memory competitors are Micron Technology, Inc., or Micron, Macronix International Co., Ltd., or Macronix, Winbond Electronics Corp. and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., or Samsung. Additional NOR Flash memory competitors include Microchip Technology Inc., EON Silicon Solution Inc., Atmel Corporation and Toshiba Corporation, or Toshiba. We increasingly compete with NAND Flash memory manufacturers where NAND Flash memory has the ability to replace NOR Flash memory in customer applications. Our principal NAND Flash memory competitors include Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. and Micron Technology, Inc. In the future, our principal NAND Flash memory competitors may include Elpida Memory, Inc., Hynix Semiconductor Inc., Toshiba Semiconductor Company, Powerchip Technology Corporation, Macronix International Co., Ltd., Intel Corporation and Sandisk Corporation. The Flash memory market is characterized by intense competition. The basis of competition is cost, selling price, performance, quality, customer relationships and ability to provide value-added solutions. In particular, in the past our competitors have aggressively priced their products, which resulted in decreased selling prices for our products and adversely impacted our results of operations. Some of our competitors, including Samsung and Toshiba, are more diversified than we are and may be able to sustain lower operating margins in their Flash memory business based on the profitability of their other, non-Flash memory businesses. In addition, capital investments by competitors in the past have resulted in substantial industry manufacturing capacity and announced capital investments planned for the future may further contribute to a competitive pricing environment. Some of our competitors are able to manufacture NAND-based Flash memory products on 300-millimeter wafers at lower costs than us or may choose to utilize more advanced manufacturing process technologies than us. As a result, such competitors may be able to offer products competitive to ours at a lower cost or higher density. Moreover, our NAND-based Flash memory products based on our proprietary MirrorBit technology may not have the price, performance, quality and other features necessary to compete successfully for these applications. We expect competition in the Flash memory market to intensify as existing manufacturers introduce new products, new manufacturers enter the market, industry-wide production capacity increases and competitors aggressively price their Flash memory products to increase market share. The competition we face intensified during the Chapter 11 Cases as our ability to compete was reduced. If our competitors, many of whom have greater financial resources than us, increase their focus on the Flash memory products or segments of the Flash memory markets that generate a significant portion of our net sales we could be materially adversely affected. Competitive pressures may also increase if NOR memory vendors merge, if NAND memory vendors acquire NOR businesses or other NAND businesses, or if our competitors otherwise consolidate their operations. For example, on April 8, 2010, Microchip Technology announced that it had completed its acquisition of Silicon Storage Technology, Inc.; and on May 7, 2010, Micron announced that it had completed its acquisition of 19 Table of Contents Numonyx Holdings B.V. Furthermore, we face increasing competition from NAND Flash memory vendors targeting the embedded portion of the Flash memory market. To compete successfully, we must decrease our manufacturing costs and develop, introduce and sell products at competitive prices that meet our customers’ demands. If we are unable to compete effectively, we could be materially adversely affected. Unless we maintain manufacturing efficiency, we may not become profitable and our future profitability could be materially adversely affected. The Flash memory industry is characterized by rapid technological changes. For example, new manufacturing process technologies using smaller feature sizes and offering better performance characteristics are generally introduced every one to two years. The introduction of new manufacturing process technologies allows us to increase the functionality of our products while at the same time optimizing performance parameters, and increasing storage capacity. In addition, the reduction of feature sizes enables us to produce smaller chips offering the same functionality and thereby considerably reducing the cost per bit. In order to remain competitive, it is essential that we secure the capabilities to develop and qualify new manufacturing process technologies. For example, our leading Flash memory products must be manufactured at 65-nanometer and more advanced process technologies. If we are delayed in transitioning to these technologies and other future technologies, we could be materially adversely affected. Manufacturing our products involves highly complex processes that require advanced equipment. Our manufacturing efficiency is an important factor in achieving profitability, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain or increase our manufacturing efficiency to the same extent as our competitors. For example, we continuously modify our manufacturing processes in an effort to improve yields and product performance and decrease costs. We are continuing to transition to 65-nanometer process technology for the manufacture of some of our products. During periods when we are implementing new process technologies, manufacturing facilities may not be fully productive. We may fail to achieve acceptable yields or may experience product delivery delays as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, delays in the development of new process technologies, changes in our process technologies, upgrades or expansion of existing facilities, impurities or other difficulties in the manufacturing process. Any of these occurrences could adversely impact our relationships with customers, cause harm to our reputation in the marketplace, cause customers to move future business to our competitors or cause us to make financial concessions to our customers. Improving our manufacturing efficiency in future periods is dependent on our ability to: • develop advanced process technologies and advanced products that utilize those technologies; • successfully transition to advanced process technologies; • continue to reduce test times; • ramp product and process technology improvements rapidly and effectively to commercial volumes; • achieve acceptable levels of manufacturing wafer output and yields, which may decrease as we implement more advanced technologies; and • maintain our quality controls and rely upon the quality and process controls of our suppliers. Our ability to generate sufficient operating cash flows depends in part on maintaining our expense reduction efforts. Our business is capital intensive and our ability to generate operating cash flows depends in large part on the maintenance of our low cost strategy. In response to decreasing cash balances of the Predecessor prior to the Chapter 11 Cases and as part of our strategy going forward, we intend to continue our low cost strategy. Some 20 Table of Contents cost cutting activities may require initial cash outlays before the cost reductions are realized. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve anticipated expense reductions. If our expense reduction efforts are unsuccessful, our operating results and business may be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, in certain instances our cost reductions may make it more difficult for us to succeed in the extremely competitive Flash memory market. Our working capital, investments and capital requirements may require us to seek additional financing, which may not be available to us. Our debt instruments may not be sufficient for our future working capital, investments and capital requirements. We also may not be able to access additional financing resources due to a variety of reasons, including the restrictive covenants in the Senior Secured Term Loan, the Revolving Credit Facility and the Senior Unsecured Notes indenture and the lack of available capital due to the tight nature of global credit markets. If our financing requirements are not met by the Senior Secured Term Loan and the Revolving Credit Facility and we are unable to access additional financing, our business, operations, financial condition and cash flows will be materially adversely affected. If we cannot adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property in the United States and abroad, through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and other measures, we may lose a competitive advantage and incur significant expenses as a result of litigation and other claims. We rely on a combination of protections provided by contracts, including confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements, copyrights, patents, trademarks and common law rights, such as trade secrets, to protect our intellectual property. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property from third-party infringement or from misappropriation in the United States and abroad. Any patent owned or licensed by us or issued to us could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or rights granted under these patents or licenses may not provide a competitive advantage to us. Furthermore, patent applications that we file may not result in issuance of a patent or, if a patent is issued, the patent may not be issued in a form that is advantageous to us. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, others may independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around our patents and other intellectual property rights. In addition, it is difficult to monitor compliance with, and enforce, our intellectual property rights on a worldwide basis in a cost-effective manner. Foreign laws may provide less intellectual property protection than is afforded in the United States. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property in the United States and abroad, through lawsuits such as those that have been filed between us and Samsung may be time-consuming and costly. If we cannot adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property rights in the United States and abroad, we may be materially adversely affected. We are currently party to various lawsuits brought by third parties alleging that we infringe their intellectual property rights. In the future, third parties may bring additional actions against us based on similar allegations. To resolve such claims, we may seek to obtain a license under the third party’s intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain all of the necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. These parties have or may in the future file lawsuits against us seeking damages (potentially including treble damages or willful infringement) or an injunction against the sale of our products that incorporate allegedly infringed intellectual property or against the operation of our business as presently conducted, which could result in our having to stop the sale of some of our products, increase the costs of selling some of our products, or cause damage to our reputation. The award of damages, including material royalty payments, or the entry of an injunction against the manufacture and sale of some or all of our products, would have a material adverse effect on us. We could decide, in the alternative, to redesign our products or to resort to litigation to challenge or defend such claims, either of which could be expensive and time-consuming and may have a material adverse effect on us. We expect to attempt to negotiate agreements and arrangements with third parties for the license of intellectual property and technology that are important to our business. We also expect to continue to apply for 21 Table of Contents new patents as our success in negotiating patent cross-license agreements with other industry participants will depend in large part upon the strength of our patent portfolio relative to that of the third party with which we are negotiating. If we are unable to negotiate agreements or arrangements for intellectual property, or to obtain patents, necessary for the success of our business, we may be materially adversely affected. We provide indemnities relating to non-infringement of patents and other intellectual property indemnities to certain of our customers in connection with the delivery, design, manufacture and sale of our products. If we incur substantial costs in connection with any claim pursuant to such indemnification, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If essential equipment or adequate supplies of satisfactory materials are not available to manufacture our products, we could be materially adversely affected. Our manufacturing operations depend upon obtaining deliveries of equipment and adequate supplies of materials on a timely basis. We purchase equipment and materials from a number of suppliers. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supply to us or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Because the equipment that we purchase is complex, it is difficult for us to substitute one supplier for another or one piece of equipment for another. Some raw materials we use in the manufacture of our products are available from a limited number of suppliers or only from a limited number of suppliers in a particular region. In addition, we purchase raw materials such as gold for which prices on the world markets have fluctuated significantly during recent periods. Our manufacturing operations also depend upon the quality and usability of the materials we use in our products, including raw materials and wafers we receive from our suppliers. If the materials we receive from our suppliers do not meet our manufacturing requirements or product specifications, are not obtained in a timely manner or if there are significant increases in costs of materials, we may be materially adversely affected. We also rely on purchasing commercial memory die such as PSRAM from third-party suppliers to incorporate these die into multi-chip package products. The availability of these third-party purchased commercial die is subject to market availability, and the process technology roadmaps and manufacturing capacities of our vendors. In addition, some of our suppliers may also be our competitors. Interruption of supply from a competitor that is a supplier or otherwise or increased demand in the industry could cause shortages and price increases in various essential materials. If we are unable to procure these materials, or if the materials we receive from our suppliers do not meet our production requirements or product specifications, we may have to reduce our manufacturing operations or our manufacturing yields may be adversely affected. Such a reduction and yield issues have in the past and could in the future have a material adverse effect on us. Costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on us. One or more of our products may be found to be defective or we may initiate voluntary recalls of products after they have been shipped to customers in volume. We generally provide a limited warranty with respect to our products. Accordingly, if we recall products or are forced to replace defective products, the cost of product replacements or product returns may be substantial, and our reputation with our customers could be damaged. In addition, we could incur substantial costs to implement modifications to fix defects. Any of these problems could materially adversely affect us. Worldwide economic and political conditions and risks may adversely affect demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on us. We operate in more than ten countries and we derive a majority of our net sales outside the United States. For example, a significant portion of our planned wafer fabrication capacity for existing and future products is provided by third parties located in Japan and China, and nearly all final tests and assembly of our products is performed at our facilities in Malaysia and Thailand and by third parties in China, Taiwan, Korea and Thailand. 22 Table of Contents Our business depends on overall worldwide economic conditions and the economic and business conditions within our customers’ industries. Our business may also be affected by economic factors that are beyond our control, such as downturns in economic activity in a specific country or region. A further weakening of the worldwide economy or the economies of individual countries or the demand for our customers’ products may cause a decrease in demand for our products, which could materially adversely affect us. We could also be significantly and adversely affected by geopolitical concerns and world events, such as wars and terrorist attacks. Our net sales and financial results have been and could be negatively affected to the extent such geopolitical concerns continue or similar events occur or are anticipated to occur. Terrorist attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. Furthermore, these attacks may make travel and the transportation of our products more difficult and more expensive, which could materially adversely affect us. The political and economic risks associated with our sales to, and operations in, foreign countries include: • expropriation; • changes in political or economic conditions; • compliance with U.S. and international laws involving international operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and export control laws; • changes in tax laws, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • difficulties in protecting our intellectual property; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • restrictions on transfers of funds and other assets of our subsidiaries between jurisdictions; • changes in freight and interest rates; • disruption in air transportation between the location of our facilities; and • loss or modification of exemptions for taxes and tariffs. In particular, consequences of military action in the Middle East have in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect demand for our products and our relationship with various third parties with which we collaborate. Our subsidiary, Spansion Israel, conducts business in Israel, which is affected and surrounded by unstable political, economic and military conditions. We cannot predict the effect of continued or increased violence, or the effect of military action in that region. Continued armed conflicts or political instability in the region would harm business conditions and could adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, several countries continue to restrict or ban business with Israel and Israeli companies. These restrictive laws and policies may limit our ability to make sales in those countries, and, as a global company, may limit our own ability to efficiently administer our worldwide resources. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. economy and worldwide financial markets. Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect us. As a result of our foreign operations, we have sales, expenses, assets and liabilities that are denominated in Japanese yen and other foreign currencies. For example: • some of our costs are denominated in Japanese yen, Thai baht and Malaysian ringgit; • sales of our products to, and purchases from, TI are denominated in both U.S. dollars and Japanese yen; and • some fixed asset purchases are denominated in Japanese yen and European Union euros. 23 Table of Contents Consequently, movements in exchange rates could cause our net sales and expenses to fluctuate, affecting our results of operations and cash flows. We use foreign currency forward contracts to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The objective of these contracts is to reduce the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our operating results and on our foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. We do not use these contracts for speculative or trading purposes. We cannot assure you that these activities will be successful in reducing our foreign currency exchange rate exposure. If these activities are unsuccessful, our financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws that could result in liabilities. Our properties and many aspects of our business operations are subject to various domestic and international environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to materials used in our products and manufacturing processes; chemical use and handling; waste minimization; discharge of pollutants into the environment; the treatment, transport, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes; and remediation of contamination. Certain of these laws and regulations require us to obtain permits for our operations, including permits related to the discharge of air pollutants and wastewater. From time to time, our facilities are subject to investigation by governmental regulators. Environmental compliance obligations and liability risks are inherent in many of our manufacturing and other activities. Any failure to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations or permits may subject us to a range of consequences, including fines, suspension of production, alteration of manufacturing processes, sales limitations, and criminal and civil liabilities or other sanctions. We could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of exposure to hazardous materials used, stored, released, disposed of by us or located at or under our facilities, or for other environmental or natural resource damage. Certain environmental laws, including the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or the Superfund Act, impose joint and several liabilities on current and previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances and costs related to damages to natural resources. Liability can attach even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. These environmental laws also can result in liability for persons, like us, who arrange for hazardous substances to be sent to disposal or treatment facilities, in the event such facilities are found to be contaminated. Such persons can be responsible for cleanup costs at a disposal or treatment facility, even if they never owned or operated the contaminated facility. One of our properties is listed on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Superfund National Priorities List. However, other parties currently are responsible for all investigation, cleanup and remediation activities. Although we have not been named a responsible party at this site, if we were so named, costs associated with the cleanup of the site could have material adverse effect upon us. We have not been named a responsible party at any Superfund or other contaminated site. If we were ever so named, costs associated with the cleanup of the site could be material. Additionally, contamination that has not yet been identified could exist at one or more of our facilities, and identification of such contamination could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business is subject to complex and dynamic environmental regulatory schemes. While we have budgeted for reasonably foreseeable environmental expenditures, we cannot assure you that environmental laws will not change or become more stringent in the future. Future environmental regulations could require us to procure expensive pollution abatement or remediation equipment; to modify product designs; or to incur other expenses associated with compliance with such regulations. For example, the European Union and China recently began imposing stricter requirements regarding reduced lead content in semiconductor packaging. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, or liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, will not have a material adverse effect on our business. 24 Table of Contents Our business, worldwide operations and the operations of our suppliers could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could harm our future net sales and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations and business could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, such as a world health crisis, fire, earthquake, tsunami, volcano eruption, flood, hurricane, power loss, power shortage, telecommunications failure or similar events, which could harm our future net sales and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our corporate headquarters are located near major earthquake fault lines in California and TI’s wafer fabrication facilities, Fujitsu’s manufacturing facilities and Elpida’s manufacturing facilities are located near major earthquake fault lines in Japan. Also, our assembly and test facility located in Thailand and our subcontractors’ assembly and test facilities in Asia may be affected by tsunamis. In the event of a major earthquake or tsunami, we could experience loss of life of our employees, destruction of facilities or other business interruptions. If such business disruptions result in cancellations of customer orders or contribute to a general decrease in economic activity or demand for our products, or directly impact our marketing, manufacturing, financial, and logistics functions, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, the operations of our suppliers could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could cause shortages and price increases in various essential materials, which are required to manufacture our products or commercial memory die such as PSRAMs for incorporation into our MCP products. If we are unable to procure an adequate supply of materials that are required for us to manufacture our products, or if the operations of our other suppliers of such materials are affected by an event that causes a significant business disruption, we may have to reduce our manufacturing operations. Such a reduction could in the future have a material adverse effect on us. Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our results of operations and cause us to change our business practices. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in those policies or other requirements with respect to the reporting of financial statements can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. For example, the SEC has released a proposed roadmap regarding the potential use by U.S. issuers of financial statements prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS. Under the proposed roadmap, we may be required to prepare financial statements in accordance with IFRS. The SEC announced it will make a determination in 2011 regarding the mandatory adoption of these new standards. It is unclear at this time how the Commission will propose GAAP and IFRS be harmonized if the proposed changes are adopted. If adopted, we will need to develop new systems and controls around IFRS principles. Since this would be a new endeavor, the specific costs associated with this conversion are uncertain and could have a material impact on our results of operations. AMD and Fujitsu may continue to use all of our intellectual property and the intellectual property they have transferred to us. In connection with our reorganization as Spansion LLC in June 2003, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., or AMD, and Fujitsu transferred approximately 400 patents and patent applications to us. In addition, AMD and Fujitsu contributed additional patents to us at the time of our initial public offering. However, both AMD and Fujitsu have retained license rights under the patents they contributed to us. In addition, under their respective patent cross-license agreements with us, AMD and Fujitsu have also obtained licenses to our present and future 25 Table of Contents patents with effective filing dates prior to June 30, 2013, although the scope of patents under license can be impacted by a change in control of the parties or their semiconductor groups. These licenses continue until the last to expire of the patents under license expires and provide AMD and Fujitsu with licenses to all of our present and future patents in existence through such cross-license termination date. In addition, we have granted a non-exclusive, perpetual, irrevocable fully paid and royalty-free license under our rights, other than patent and trademark rights, in our technology to each of AMD and Fujitsu. Under our non-competition agreement, both AMD and Fujitsu have agreed that they will not directly or indirectly engage in a business, and have agreed to divest any acquired business, that manufactures or supplies standalone semiconductor devices (including single chip, multiple chip or system devices) containing certain Flash memory, which is the business in which we primarily compete. With respect to each of AMD and Fujitsu, this non-competition restriction will last until May 10, 2012. After the expiration of the non-competition restriction period, should either AMD or Fujitsu decide to re-enter the Flash memory business, it could use our present and future patents and technologies licensed by us to AMD and Fujitsu to compete against us. If either AMD or Fujitsu were to compete with us, we could be materially adversely affected. Our stock price may be volatile, and stockholders may lose all or part of their investment. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and may in the future be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many risk factors listed in this section, and others beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated changes in our operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived to be comparable to us; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, divestitures, joint ventures or other strategic initiatives; and • stock price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels or other factors. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of shares of our common stock. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could materially adversely affect us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 