1A. RISK FACTORS The Corporation’s business strategy includes the continuation of growth plans, and its financial condition and results of operations could be affected if its business strategies are not effectively executed. The Corporation intends to continue pursuing a growth strategy for its business through organic growth of the loan portfolio. The Corporation’s prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties that can be encountered by financial services companies in rapid growth stages, which may include the following: • Maintaining loan quality; • Maintaining adequate management personnel and information systems to oversee such growth; and • Maintaining adequate control and compliance functions. Operating Results. There is no assurance that the Bank will maintain or achieve deposit levels, loan balances or other operating results necessary to avoid losses or produce profits. The Corporation’s growth will cause growth in overhead expenses as it routinely adds staff. The Corporation’s historical results may not be indicative of future results. 16 Regulatory and Economic Factors. The Corporation may be adversely affected by a number of regulatory and economic developments or other events. Failure to obtain required regulatory approvals, changes in laws and regulations or other regulatory developments and changes in prevailing economic conditions or other unanticipated events may prevent the execution of certain business strategies or adversely affect the Corporation. Failure to successfully address the issues identified above could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations. The Bank could sustain losses if its asset quality declines. The Bank’s earnings are affected by its ability to properly originate, underwrite and service loans. The Bank could sustain losses if it incorrectly assesses the creditworthiness of its borrowers or fails to detect or respond to deterioration in asset quality in a timely manner. Problems with asset quality could cause the Bank’s interest income and net interest margin to decrease and its provisions for loan losses to increase, which could adversely affect the Bank’s results of operations and financial condition. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce the Bank’s earnings. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectibility of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and takes a charge against earnings with respect to specific loans when their ultimate collectibility is considered questionable. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require the Bank to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, the Bank’s earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. Liquidity needs could adversely affect the Bank’s results of operations and financial condition. The primary source of funds of the Bank are customer deposits and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, they are subject to the ability of borrowers to repay the loans. The ability of borrowers to repay loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups, reductions in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters and international instability. Additionally, deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, returns available to customers on alternative investments and general economic conditions. Accordingly, the Corporation may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such sources include Federal Home Loan Bank advances and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks. While management of the Bank believes that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity demands. The Bank may be required to slow or discontinue loan growth, capital expenditures or other investments or liquidate assets should such sources not be adequate. Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect the Bank’s profitability. The banking business is highly competitive and the Bank experiences competition in its markets from many other financial institutions. The Bank competes with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other community banks and super-regional and national financial institutions that operate offices in the Bank’s primary market areas and elsewhere. 17 Additionally, the Bank faces competition from de novo community banks, including those with senior management who were previously affiliated with other local or regional banks or those controlled by investor groups with strong local business and community ties. These de novo community banks may offer higher deposit rates or lower cost loans in an effort to attract the Bank’s customers, and may attempt to hire the Bank’s management and employees. The Bank competes with these other financial institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, the Bank has to attract its customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. The Bank expects competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. The Bank’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete with an array of financial institutions in its market areas. The Bank’s business is subject to the success of the local economies where it operates. The Bank’s success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and new businesses in its market areas. If the communities in which the Bank operates do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, the Bank’s business may not succeed. Adverse economic conditions in the Bank’s specific market areas could reduce its growth rate, affect the ability of its customers to repay their loans to the Bank and generally affect its financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, the Bank cannot give any assurance that it will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in its primary market areas if they do occur. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the Corporation’s results of operations and financial condition. Changes in interest rates may affect the Bank’s level of interest income, the primary component of its gross revenue, as well as the level of its interest expense. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Bank’s control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Accordingly, changes in interest rates could decrease the Bank’s net interest income. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect the Bank’s ability to originate loans, the value of the Bank’s assets and the Bank’s ability to realize gains from the sale of its assets, all of which ultimately affects the Bank’s earnings. The Corporation relies heavily on the services of key personnel. The Corporation depends substantially on the strategies and management services of its executive officers, Arthur F. Helf, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Michael R. Sapp, President, H. Lamar Cox, Chief Administrative Officer and George W. Fort, Chief Financial Officer. Although the Corporation has entered into an employment agreement with these executive officers, the loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Corporation is also dependent on certain other key officers who have important customer relationships or are instrumental to its operations. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to the Corporation’s business and could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation believes that its future results will also depend in part upon its attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management, as well as sales and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and the Corporation cannot assure you that it will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. 18 The Bank is subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict its activities. The Bank operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies including the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC and the TDFI. The Bank’s regulatory compliance is costly and restricts certain of its activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, and interest rates paid on deposits. The Bank is also subject to capitalization guidelines established by its regulators, which require it to maintain adequate capital to support its growth. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and the Bank cannot predict the effects of these changes on its business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, the Bank’s cost of compliance could adversely affect its ability to operate profitably. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Nasdaq that are now applicable to the Corporation, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. As a result, the Corporation has experienced, and may continue to experience, greater compliance costs. The Corporation’s recent results may not be indicative of its future results. The Corporation may not be able to sustain its historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow its business at all. In addition, the Corporation’s recent growth may distort some of its historical financial ratios and statistics. In the future, the Corporation may not have the benefit of several recently favorable factors, such as a generally stable interest rate environment and a strong local business environment. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede or prohibit the Corporation’s ability to grow. The Corporation’s ability to maintain adequate capital may restrict its activities. The Corporation’s continued pace of growth may require it to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. The Corporation is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. While the Corporation’s capital resources will satisfy its capital requirements for the foreseeable future, the Corporation may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support its continued growth. The Corporation’s ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside its control, and on its financial performance. Accordingly, the Corporation cannot assure its shareholders that it will be able to raise additional capital if needed on terms acceptable to it. If the Corporation cannot raise additional capital when needed, its ability to continue its growth could be materially impaired. The success and growth of the Corporation’s business will depend on its ability to adapt to technological changes. The banking industry and the ability to deliver financial services is becoming more dependent on technological advancement, such as the ability to process loan applications over the Internet, accept electronic signatures, provide process status updates instantly and on-line banking capabilities and other customer expected conveniences that are cost efficient to the Corporation’s business processes. As these technologies are improved in the future, the Corporation may, in order to remain competitive, be required to make significant capital expenditures. Even though the Corporation’s common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq Over the Counter Bulletin Board Market, the trading volume in its common stock has been thin and the sale of substantial amounts of the Corporation’s common stock in the public market could depress the price of its common stock. 19 The Corporation cannot say with any certainty when a more active and liquid trading market for its common stock will develop or be sustained. Because of this, the Corporation’s shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. The Corporation cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of its common stock in the market, or availability of shares of its common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of the Corporation’s common stock. The Corporation, therefore, can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of its common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of its common stock to decline or impair its ability to raise capital through sales of its common stock. The market price of the Corporation’s common stock may fluctuate in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to its performance. General market price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. The Corporation may issue additional common stock or other equity securities in the future which could dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. In order to maintain its capital at desired levels or required regulatory levels, or to fund future growth, the Corporation’s board of directors may decide from time to time to issue additional shares of common stock, or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or representing rights to acquire shares of its common stock. The sale of these shares may significantly dilute the Corporation’s shareholder’s ownership interest as a shareholder and the per share book value of its common stock. New investors in the future may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to its current shareholders which may adversely impact its current shareholders. The Corporation’s ability to declare and pay dividends is limited by law and it may be unable to pay future dividends. The Corporation derives its income solely from dividends on the shares of common stock of the Bank. The Bank’s ability to declare and pay dividends is limited by its obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other general restrictions on its dividends that are applicable to banks that are regulated by the FDIC and the TDFI. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board may impose restrictions on the Corporation’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock. As a result, the Corporation cannot assure its shareholders that it will declare or pay dividends on shares of its common stock in the future. Holders of the Corporation’s subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of its common shareholders. The Corporation has supported its continued growth through the issuance of trust preferred securities from a special purpose trust and accompanying subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2005, the Corporation had outstanding trust preferred securities and accompanying subordinated debentures totaling $8.2 million. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of these trusts are conditionally guaranteed by the Corporation. Further, the accompanying subordinated debentures the Corporation issued to the trust are senior to its shares of common stock. As a result, the Corporation must make payments on the subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on its common stock and, in the event of its bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on its common stock. The Corporation has the right to defer distributions on its subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on its common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 20 ITEM 