ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are a development stage company with no operating history and very limited resources and our financial statements contain a statement indicating that our ability to begin operations depends on the completion of an acquisition. We are a development stage company with no operating results to date and very limited financial resources. Therefore, our ability to begin operations is dependent upon the completion of an acquisition in the banking industry. Since we do not have an operating history, you will have a limited basis upon which to evaluate our ability to acquire an operating commercial bank or bank holding company. As of March 31, 2007, we have no arrangements or understandings with any prospective acquisition candidates. We have no present revenues and will not generate any revenues (other than interest income on the net proceeds of our initial public offering) until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. Investors must rely on our management with respect to the identification and selection of a prospective target business and we cannot assure you that any such acquisition will be successful. Although the Company’s management has broad discretion with respect to the specific application of the net proceeds, substantially all of the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be applied in connection with consummating a merger with or acquisition of an operating commercial bank or bank holding company. Management has virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective target business. Investors must therefore rely on management’s due diligence review and evaluation of potential acquisition candidates. There can be no assurances that, if we complete the acquisition of an operating commercial bank or bank holding company, such acquisition will be successful. In the event we do not receive the required regulatory approvals, we will not be able to consummate a business combination involving a target bank or bank holding company. In order to acquire a target business with operations as a national bank, a state bank or a bank holding company, we will need to apply for and receive regulatory approval from the financial institution’s regulators. Depending on the form of the transaction, we expect we will need one or more approvals from the following regulatory agencies: the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or Federal Reserve, in order to become a bank holding company and/or in connection with a change in control of a commercial bank; the FDIC and/or the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or OCC, in connection with compliance with the Bank Merger Act; and the state banking commission of the state in which any target state chartered bank is located. We cannot assure you that we or the target business will be successful in receiving such approvals on satisfactory terms or in a timely manner. Because we are a blank check company, it may be more difficult for us to complete a business combination during the prescribed time period. Based upon publicly available information as of June 15, 2007, we have identified approximately 100 blank check companies which have gone public since August 2003. Of these companies, 26 have completed a business combination. Additionally, 23 have announced that they have entered into definitive agreements for business combinations but not yet consummated these transactions, five of such companies have been or are being liquidated and approximately 46 companies have completed their initial public offering but have not announced a definitive agreement for a business combination. These 74 blank check companies have more than $6.6 billion held in trust. The fact that only 26 of such companies have completed a business combination and only 23 of such companies have entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination may be an indication that there are only a limited number of 11 Table of Contents attractive targets available to such entities or that many targets are not inclined to enter into a transaction with a blank check company and therefore we also may not be able to consummate a business combination within the prescribed time period. If we are unable to consummate an initial transaction within the prescribed time period, our corporate purpose and powers will automatically be limited to effecting and implementing our dissolution and liquidation and our board will be required to adopt, within 15 days thereafter, a resolution finding our dissolution advisable and provide notice as soon as possible thereafter of a special meeting of stockholders to vote on our dissolution in accordance with Delaware law. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate a business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from numerous other potential buyers competing for acquisitions of commercial banks, including private equity funds, financial institutions and other blank check companies. Most of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations, as well as greater human and other resources than we do. Our ability to compete in acquiring target businesses will be limited by our available financial and other resources. Further, the obligation we have to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay or prevent the consummation of a transaction, and our obligation to convert into cash the shares of common stock sold in our initial public offering in certain instances may reduce the resources available to us for a business combination. Additionally, our outstanding redeemable warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. These factors combined with the time limitation within which we must complete a business combination may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete for a target business within the required time period. If we are unable to consummate an initial transaction within the prescribed time period, we will promptly begin the process for our dissolution and liquidation in accordance with the requirements of Delaware law. If we do not timely consummate a business combination, we will be required to dissolve, but such dissolution requires the approval of holders of a majority of our common stock in accordance with Delaware law. Without this shareholder approval, we will not be able to dissolve and liquidate and we will not distribute funds from our trust account to our public stockholders. If we do not complete a business combination by December 7, 2007 or by June 7, 2008 if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement is executed by December 7, 2007 and the business combination relating thereto is not consummated by December 7, 2007), our certificate of incorporation (a) provides that our corporate powers will automatically thereafter be limited to acts and activities relating to dissolving and winding up our affairs, including liquidation, and we will not be able to engage in any other business activities and (b) requires that our board of directors within 15 days adopt a resolution finding our dissolution advisable and provide notice as soon as possible thereafter of a special meeting of stockholders to vote on our dissolution. Pursuant to Delaware law, our dissolution also requires the affirmative vote of stockholders owning a majority of our then outstanding common stock. In the event that we do not initially obtain approval for our dissolution by stockholders owning a majority of our outstanding common stock, we will continue to take all reasonable actions to obtain such approval, which may include adjourning the meeting from time to time to allow us to obtain the required vote and retaining a proxy solicitation firm to assist us in obtaining such vote. However, we cannot assure you that our stockholders will approve our dissolution in a timely manner or ever approve our dissolution. If we are not able to obtain approval from a majority of our stockholders, we cannot dissolve and liquidate and we will not be able to distribute funds from our trust account to our public stockholders and these funds will not be available for any other corporate purpose. 12 Table of Contents Because the initial per share amount deposited in trust is approximately $7.52 per share (plus any remaining net interest), if we are unable to timely complete a business combination and we receive stockholder approval to dissolve and distribute the funds held in trust, public stockholders will receive less than $8.00 per share upon distribution of the trust fund and our redeemable warrants will expire worthless. Because the initial per share amount deposited in trust is approximately $7.52 per share (plus any remaining net interest), if we are unable to complete a business combination and we receive stockholder approval to dissolve and distribute the trust fund to our public stockholders, public stockholders will receive less than the $8.00 purchase price per unit as a result of the expenses of our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking a business combination. Furthermore, we will be required to pay or make reasonable provision to pay claims of creditors which we intend to do from the funds not held in trust. In addition, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding redeemable warrants and, accordingly, the redeemable warrants will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a business combination. The proceeds held in trust available for distribution could be less than $7.52 per share due to claims of third parties. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Upon our dissolution, we will be required, pursuant to Delaware General Corporate Law Sections 280 and 281, to pay or make reasonable provision to pay all claims and obligations of the corporation, including contingent or conditional claims, which we intend to pay, to the extent sufficient to do so, from our funds not held in trust. We will seek to have each vendor and service provider we engage execute an agreement with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account. There is no guarantee, however, that we will be able to obtain such agreements or that even if such agreements are executed, that such agreements would prevent claims against the trust fund. Nor is there any guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. We will require any target business to covenant as part of any definitive acquisition agreement that it will not pursue any claim or enforce any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies in the trust fund. If we are unable to complete a business combination, Mr. Simanson, our president, and Mr. Zalman, a stockholder, will only be personally liable to ensure that the proceeds in the trust fund are not reduced by the claims of any vendor or service provider that is owed money by us for products sold or services rendered to us. However, we cannot assure you that Messrs. Simanson and Zalman will be able to satisfy those obligations. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced to the extent we pay or make reasonable provision to pay known or unknown claims as required by Delaware law. In addition, creditors may seek to interfere with the distribution process under state or federal creditor and bankruptcy laws. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that the actual per share distribution price will not be less than approximately $7.52 due to claims of creditors or that there will not be delays in addition to those imposed by our duties to comply with Delaware General Corporate Law procedures and federal securities laws and regulations. Upon distribution of the trust fund, our stockholders may be held liable for claims of third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If a corporation complies with certain statutory procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that the corporation makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of 13 Table of Contents the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. The procedures in Section 280 include a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions may be made to stockholders. However, we will seek stockholder approval to make liquidating distributions to our public stockholders as soon as reasonably practicable following our dissolution in accordance with Section 281(b) of the Delaware statute. Therefore, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution and any liability of our public stockholders may extend beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution. For further information on the statutory dissolution procedures, see “Business—Effecting a Business Combination—Liquidation if no business combination.” Because we have not yet selected any target business with which to complete a business combination, no information is available upon which to ascertain the merits or risks of the business which we may ultimately acquire and operate. We will be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of any target business that we acquire. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors including its financial stability. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our securities will not ultimately prove to be less favorable than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. Under Delaware law, the requirements and restrictions relating to our initial public offering contained in our certificate of incorporation may be amended, which could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders by such requirements and restrictions. Our certificate of incorporation sets forth certain requirements and restrictions relating to our initial public offering that shall apply to us until the consummation of a business combination. Specifically, our certificate of incorporation provides, among other things, that: • prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, we shall submit such business combination to our stockholders for approval; • we may consummate our initial business combination if: (i) it is approved by a majority of the shares of common stock voted by public stockholders, and (ii) public stockholders owning less than 20% of the shares sold in our initial public offering exercise their conversion rights; • if our initial business combination is approved and consummated, public stockholders who voted against the business combination and exercised their conversion rights will receive their pro rata share of the trust account, including the deferred underwriting compensation plus one-half of the interest earned on the trust fund, net of taxes; and • if a business combination is not consummated or a letter of intent, an agreement in principle or a definitive agreement is not signed within the time periods specified, in accordance with our certificate of incorporation: • our corporate purposes and powers will immediately thereupon be limited to acts and activities relating to dissolving and winding up our affairs, including liquidation, and we will not be able to engage in any other business activities: 14 Table of Contents • our board of directors will be required to adopt, within 15 days thereafter, a resolution pursuant to Section 275(a) of the Delaware General Corporation Law finding our dissolution advisable and provide such notices to our stockholders as required by Section 275(a) as promptly thereafter as possible; and • in the event stockholders owning a majority of our outstanding common stock approve our dissolution, we must promptly adopt a plan of distribution which provides that only the public stockholders shall be entitled to receive liquidating distributions. Our certificate of incorporation prohibits the amendment of the above-described provisions until the consummation of a business combination. However, the validity of provisions prohibiting amendment of the certificate of incorporation under Delaware law has not been settled. A court could conclude that the prohibition on amendment violates the stockholders’ implicit rights to amend the corporate charter. In that case, the above-described provisions would be amendable and any such amendment could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders. However, we view the foregoing provisions as obligations to our stockholders, and we will not take any actions to waive or amend any of these provisions. Company resources could be wasted in pursuing acquisitions that are not consummated. We anticipate that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention. We could incur substantial costs for accountants, attorneys, and others payable from the funds not held in trust in connection with a business combination that is not completed and may be required to pay to the potential target business a deposit or down payment or to fund a “no shop” provision. Costs incurred prior to completion of a business combination, including any for a non-refundable deposit or down payment or to fund a no shop provision may not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the transaction for any number of reasons, including those beyond our control, such as that more than 19.99% of our stockholders vote against the transaction even if a majority of our stockholders approve the transaction. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred and time expended in such effort, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of our initial public offering held in trust will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, inasmuch as we have not yet identified any prospective target business, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the proceeds of our initial public offering held in trust prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or because we become obligated to convert into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to meet regulatory requirements or to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination, nor have we made any arrangements for such financing with any third party. 15 Table of Contents In the event we issue shares of our capital stock or convertible debt securities to complete a business combination, the equity interest of our stockholders would be reduced and a change in control of our ownership would possibly occur. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 50,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.01 per share, and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.01 per share. There are 32,075,000 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding redeemable warrants and the purchase option granted to the representatives of the underwriters) and all of the 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no current plans or commitments to issue our securities, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any shares of our preferred stock: • would reduce the percentage equity ownership of the stockholders in our company; • may result in a change in control which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and may result in the resignation or removal of one or more of our present officers and directors; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our securities. Similarly, our issuance of debt securities could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating cash flow after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contained covenants that required the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant were breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; and • limitations, as a result of covenants, on our ability to acquire additional assets, pursue new banking products or services, make additional acquisitions or restrictions on our ability to obtain additional financing. We may not be able to retain our current officers and directors which may have an adverse effect on our ability to consummate a business combination or operate a combined business. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our current management, who may resign at any time and still retain their shares of our common stock. The loss of one or more of the members of our current management may have an adverse effect on our ability to locate, negotiate and consummate a business combination. The future role of our key personnel following a business combination, however, cannot presently be ascertained. We have not entered into an employment agreement with any of our key personnel. Although we expect our president to remain associated with us following a business combination, we may hire other management personnel following the business combination. The loss of any of our current management following a business combination may have an adverse effect on the operation and/or success of the combined business. 16 Table of Contents Our current directors and officers may have a conflict of interest in negotiating the terms of a business combination if they desire to be retained by our company after the business combination is completed. Our current management may only be willing to remain with us after the consummation of a business combination if they are able to negotiate the terms of an employment arrangement as part of the transaction. It would be more likely that current members of management would remain with us, if they chose to do so, if we: • acquire a target business in an all-cash transaction rather than a merger in which the stockholders of the target company control the combined company following the business combination; or • structure the business combination as the acquisition of one or more banks using a holding company in which the Company was the surviving holding company. In making the determination whether current management should remain with us following the business combination, our board of directors will analyze the experience and skills of management of the target business and, if it is believed that it is in the best interests of the combined company, negotiate as part of the business combination that certain members of current management remain with the combined company. If our current management desires to be retained by us after a business combination as a condition to the potential business combination, our current management may have a conflict of interest in negotiating the terms of the business combination. Although this conflict of interest could exist in any potential business combination, it may be more likely to exist in a potential business combination in which the stockholders of the target company control or own a significant interest in the combined company following the business combination. We may have limited ability to evaluate the management of the target business. Although we intend to closely scrutinize the management of a prospective target business in connection with evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of the target businesses’ management will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company, including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, maintaining internal controls or dealing with the public markets, which could cause us to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such laws. This could be expensive and time consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. Our officers and directors have limited or no experience in managing “blank check” companies which may have an adverse impact on our prospects. Although our officers and directors have experience in consummating acquisitions and managing public companies, our officers and directors do not have experience in managing “blank check” companies except that Keith Walz, one of our directors, was a director of a “blank check” company until the closing of its business combination in an unrelated industry. Such limited experience may have an adverse impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. 17 Table of Contents If our current officers and directors allocate their time to other businesses, thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs, our ability to consummate a business combination could be negatively impacted. Our current officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. Our executive officers are each engaged in other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. If our executive officers’ other business affairs require them to devote substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities with which they are or may become affiliated. Further, certain of our officers and directors are currently involved in other businesses that are similar to the business activities that we intend to conduct following a business combination. Due to these existing affiliations, they may have fiduciary obligations to present potential business opportunities to those entities prior to presenting them to us which could cause additional conflicts of interest. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure you that any conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Since our initial stockholders, including our officers and directors, own 20% of our shares and will not participate in liquidating distributions if we are unable to timely complete a business combination, our officers and directors may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination which conflict may not be resolved in favor of our public stockholders. Our initial stockholders own 20% of the shares of our issued and outstanding common stock, but have waived their right to receive distributions with respect to those shares upon our liquidation if we are unable to complete a business combination. Additionally, Community Bankers Acquisition, LLC, an affiliate of Mr. Simanson, together with a stockholder, Mr. Zalman, purchased an aggregate of 349,724 warrants in the open market following our initial public offering at prices not to exceed $0.80 per warrant in accordance with a Rule 10b5-1 purchase plan. The shares owned by our officers, directors and initial stockholders and their affiliates and the warrants acquired by them will be worthless if we do not timely consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our officers and directors may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination timely. Consequently, our directors’ and officers’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. 18 Table of Contents We will be substantially dependent upon interest earned on the trust account to fund our search for a target business and consummation of a business combination. Of the net proceeds of our initial public offering, only $600,000 was initially available to us to fund our working capital requirements. We will be substantially dependent upon sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with additional working capital. We are entitled to half the interest earned on the trust account, net of taxes, up to an aggregate of $1,129,000. We may not have sufficient working capital to operate our business, search for a target company and consummate a business combination. If we do not have sufficient working capital, we would need to raise additional capital from our insiders or others or be required to dissolve the corporation and liquidate. The representatives of the underwriters have the right to acquire units pursuant to their unit purchase option and I-Bankers Securities, Inc. may have a conflict of interest in determining whether or not to consent to our redemption of outstanding warrants. In connection with our initial public offering, we issued to the representatives of the underwriters and/or their designees unit purchase options to acquire 525,000 units, including 525,000 warrants, in the aggregate. Since we may redeem our warrants only with the prior consent of the I-Bankers Securities, Inc. on behalf of representatives of the underwriters, which firms may also hold warrants subject to redemption, I-Bankers Securities, Inc. may have a conflict of interest in determining whether or not to consent to such redemption. We cannot assure you that I-Bankers Securities, Inc. will consent to such redemption if it is not in its best interest even if it is in our best interest. You will not be entitled to some protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies under federal securities laws. Since we had net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 and filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the SEC upon consummation of our initial public offering, including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we believe that we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies such as Rule 419. Accordingly, you will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. It is probable that we will only be able to complete one business combination with the proceeds of our initial public offering, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single banking institution. The net proceeds from our initial public offering provided us with only approximately $54,950,000 which we may use to complete a business combination. Our management will have virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting prospective target businesses, except that our initial business combination must be a transaction in which the fair market value of the target business or businesses acquired simultaneously is at least 80% of our net assets at the time of the business combination (excluding the portion of the trust account attributable to the underwriters’ discount). While we may be able to purchase more than one target business using our equity securities as consideration for the acquisition or raising additional funds through the sale of our securities or through loan arrangements, we have no agreements or arrangements for such additional funding. We therefore believe that it is most likely that we will have the ability to effect only a single business combination. In the event we acquire a single banking institution, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities that may have the resources to complete several business combinations. 19 Table of Contents Our initial stockholders, including our officers and directors, control approximately 20% of our outstanding stock, and thus may influence certain actions requiring stockholder vote. Our initial stockholders (including all of our officers and directors) collectively own 20% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. We cannot assure you that our initial stockholders will not have considerable influence upon any matter submitted to a vote of our stockholders. Our outstanding redeemable warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. In connection with our initial public offering, as part of the units, we issued redeemable warrants to purchase 7,500,000 shares of common stock. We also issued an option to purchase 525,000 units to the representatives of the underwriters or their designees which, if exercised, will result in the issuance of an additional 525,000 redeemable warrants. The potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these redeemable warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock, reduce the ownership the stockholders would have had excluding the shares issued from the exercise of redeemable warrants, and may reduce the value of any shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our redeemable warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the redeemable warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. If and to the extent these redeemable warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. If our initial stockholders exercise their registration rights, the registration of such securities or the potential sale of such securities in the market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of those rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our initial stockholders are entitled to demand that we register, at our expense, the resale of their shares of common stock and any warrants acquired by them pursuant to their warrant purchase agreement with the representatives at any time after the date on which their shares of common stock are released from escrow. If our initial stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of common stock held by them prior to our initial public offering, then there will be an additional 1,875,000 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market. Accordingly, the presence of these registration rights may have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities or make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination. Additionally, the possibility that these additional securities may become eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities from trading on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to effect transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange, a national securities exchange. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange in the future. Additionally, in connection with our business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. 20 Table of Contents If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our securities to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our securities; • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it more difficult for us to complete a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it more difficult for us to complete a business combination, including restrictions on the nature of our investments and restrictions on the issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us certain burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance and disclosure obligations; and • compliance with other rules and regulations. We do not believe that our anticipated activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. The proceeds held in trust may only be invested by the trust agent in “government securities” within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 having a maturity of 180 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. The escrow account and the purchase of government securities for the account is intended as a holding place for funds pending the earlier to occur of either (i) the consummation of our primary business objective, which is a business combination, or (ii) absent a business combination, our dissolution and return of the funds held in this account. In addition, if we do not complete a business combination within 18 months after the consummation of our initial public offering, or within 24 months after the consummation of our initial public offering if the extension criteria have been satisfied, our certificate of incorporation (a) provides that our corporate powers will automatically thereafter be limited to acts and activities relating to dissolving and winding up our affairs, including liquidation, and (b) requires that our board of directors within 15 days adopt a resolution finding our dissolution advisable and provide notice as soon as possible thereafter of a special meeting of stockholders to vote on our dissolution. Inasmuch as we cannot assure you that our stockholders will approve our dissolution in a timely manner or ever approve our dissolution so that we can liquidate and distribute the trust fund to our public stockholders, we may nevertheless be deemed to be an investment company. If we were deemed to be subject to that act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense for which we have not budgeted. 21 Table of Contents Our directors may not be considered “independent” under the policies of the North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc. All of our officers and directors own shares of our common stock, and no salary or other compensation will be paid to our officers or directors for services rendered by them on our behalf prior to or in connection with a business combination. We believe that three of the members of our board of directors are “independent” as that term is commonly used. However, under the policies of the North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc., an international organization devoted to investor protection, because our directors may receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with activities on our behalf such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business combinations, state securities administrators could take the position that such individuals are not “independent.” If this were the case, they would take the position that we would not have the benefit of independent directors examining the propriety of expenses incurred on our behalf and subject to reimbursement. Additionally, there is no limit on the amount of out-of-pocket expenses that could be incurred and there will be no review of the reasonableness of the expenses by anyone other than our board of directors, which would include persons who may seek reimbursement, or a court of competent jurisdiction if such reimbursement is challenged. Although we believe that all actions taken by our directors on our behalf will be in our best interests, whether or not any directors are deemed to be “independent,” we cannot assure you that this will actually be the case. If actions are taken or expenses are incurred that are actually not in our best interests, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations and the price of our securities held by our public stockholders. Risks Related to Our Proposed Business If we acquire or merge with a newly formed bank, we may incur significant losses. Our target business could be a recently formed bank. Due to an accounting rule that requires immediate write-off of start-up costs, de novo banks are expected to incur operating losses in their early periods of operation because of an inability to generate sufficient net interest income to cover start up and operating costs. Those operating losses can be significant and can occur for longer periods than planned depending upon the ability to control operating expenses and generate net interest income. Our ability to pay dividends will be subject to restrictions under applicable banking laws and regulations. Banks and bank holding companies are subject to certain regulatory restrictions on the payment of cash dividends. Federal bank regulatory agencies have the authority to prohibit financial holding companies from engaging in unsafe or unsound practices in conducting its business. The payment of dividends, depending on the financial condition of the bank, could be deemed an unsafe or unsound practice. The ability of the Company to pay dividends will directly depend on the ability of the subsidiary bank to pay dividends which in turn will be restricted by the requirement that it maintain an adequate level of capital in accordance with requirements of the applicable bank regulators and in the future can be expected to be further influenced by bank regulatory policies and capital guidelines. A national bank generally may pay dividends under the National Bank Act, to the extent of its net profits. The prior approval of the OCC, however, is required for any dividend by any national bank if the total of all dividends, including any proposed dividend, declared by the national bank in any calendar year exceeds the total of its net profits (as defined) for such year combined with its retained net profits for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to surplus. The ability of a national bank to pay dividends is also restricted by the requirement that it maintain adequate levels of capital in accordance with guidelines promulgated from time to time by the OCC and the FDIC, as applicable. As a result, after a business combination with a financial institution, our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders will be limited. 22 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Banking Industry We will be subject to significant government regulation following a business combination. Following the acquisition of a target business, we will operate in a highly regulated environment and will be subject to supervision and regulation by a number of governmental regulatory agencies, including the Federal Reserve, the OCC, and the FDIC, as well as state banking commissions. Regulations adopted by these agencies, which are generally intended to provide protection for depositors and customers rather than for the benefit of stockholders, govern a comprehensive range of matters relating to the ownership and control of stockholders, acquisition of other companies and businesses, permissible activities we may engage in, maintenance of adequate capital levels and other aspects of our operations. The bank regulatory agencies possess broad authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law. In addition, future legislation and government policy, including with respect to bank deregulation and interstate expansion, could adversely affect the banking industry as a whole, including our results of operations. For example, new legislation or regulation may limit the manner in which we may conduct our business, including our ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. There are substantial regulatory limitations on changes of control. With certain limited exceptions, federal regulations prohibit a person or company or a group of persons deemed to be “acting in concert” from, directly or indirectly, acquiring more than 10% (5% if the acquirer is a bank holding company) of any class of a bank holding company’s voting stock or obtaining the ability to control in any manner the election of a majority of directors or otherwise direct the management or policies of a bank holding company without prior notice or application to and the approval of the Federal Reserve. Stockholders need to be aware that it is likely we will become subject to and be required to comply with these requirements, if applicable, in connection with ownership of our securities. If we acquire or merge with a bank holding company, we may be liable for an undercapitalized subsidiary bank. Under federal law, a bank holding company may be required to guarantee a capital plan filed by an undercapitalized depository institution subsidiary with its primary regulator. If the subsidiary defaults under the plan, the holding company may be required to contribute to the capital of the subsidiary an amount equal to the lesser of 5% of the bank’s assets at the time it became undercapitalized or the amount necessary to bring the subsidiary into compliance with applicable capital standards. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2007 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 23 Table of Contents 