Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry Our business depends on domestic spending by the oil and natural gas industry, and this spending and our business may be adversely affected by industry conditions that are beyond our control. Demand for our products and services is particularly sensitive to the level of exploration, development and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies. We depend on our customers’ willingness to make operating and capital expenditures to explore, develop and produce oil and natural gas in the United States. Industry conditions are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, such as: • the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas and related products; • domestic and worldwide economic conditions; • political instability in oil producing countries; • price of foreign imports of oil and natural gas, including liquefied natural gas; • substantial lead times on our capital expenditures; • weather conditions; • technical advances affecting energy consumption; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; and • merger and divestiture activity among oil and natural gas producers. The volatility of the oil and natural gas industry and the resulting impact on exploration and production activity could adversely impact the level of drilling and workover activity by some of our customers. This reduction may cause a decline in the demand for our services or adversely affect the price of our services. In addition, reduced discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves in our market areas may have a negative long-term impact on our business, even in an environment of stronger oil and natural gas prices, to the extent existing production is not replaced and the number of producing wells for us to service declines. We cannot predict the future level of demand for our services, future crude oil and natural gas commodity prices or future conditions of the well services industry, and we are uncertain whether these factors will have a negative impact on our results of operations in 2010 as compared to 2009. Many of our customers’ activity levels and spending for our products and services may continue to be impacted by the sustained decline in oil and natural gas prices and the continued weakness in the credit and capital markets. The demand for our services is substantially influenced by global economic conditions, current and anticipated oil and natural gas commodity prices and the related level of drilling activity and general production spending in the areas in which we have operations. During 2009, growth in global economic activity slowed substantially compared to the prior year. At the present time, it appears that the rate at which the global economy has slowed has become more stable. However, additional slowing of global economic growth, and in particular in the United States and China, will likely continue to reduce demand for oil and natural gas, increase spare productive capacity and result in lower prices and adversely impact the demand for our services. During 2009, oil and natural gas prices were volatile and substantially lower than the prior year. On March 4, 2010, the price of oil on the New York Mercantile Exchange was $80.87 per barrel and the price of natural gas was $4.76 per mcf compared to a 52-week high of $145.29 and $13.58 in 2008, respectively. These lower oil and natural gas prices have impacted our customers’ activity levels and spending for our products and services. While current energy prices are important contributors to positive cash flow for our customers, expectations about future prices and price volatility are generally more important for determining future spending levels. Our customers also take into account the volatility of energy prices and other risk factors by requiring higher returns for individual projects if 13 Table of Contents there is higher perceived risk. These factors have, and could continue to have a material and adverse effect on our customers’ activity levels, which would continue to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, many of our customers finance their exploration and development activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, weak and volatile, which has caused a continuation of the substantial deterioration in the credit and capital markets. These conditions have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult for our customers to obtain funding for their capital needs from the credit and capital markets. The combination of a reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in commodity prices, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve based credit facilities and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a continued reduction in our customers’ spending for our products and services. A continued reduction in spending would have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our ability to obtain funding for our capital projects may be limited due to continued weakness in the credit and capital markets. Our ability to fund planned capital expenditures and to make acquisitions will depend on the availability of equity and debt financing, which is affected by prevailing economic conditions in our industry and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Equity and debt financing from the capital markets may not be available on acceptable terms, which will limit our growth and reduce our expansion capital expenditures. Accordingly, our capital expenditures budget for 2010 is $24 million, which is $2.1 million less than our capital expenditures in 2009. As of December 31, 2009, we had $163.7 million of indebtedness comprising $82.7 million outstanding under our credit facility, $80.0 million of second lien notes due in 2013 and $1.0 million of mortgage and other notes payable. At December 31, 2009, availability under our credit facility was $10.0 million. Because of the downturn in the financial markets since the third quarter of 2008, including the issues surrounding the solvency of many institutional lenders and the failure of several banks, we may be unable to utilize the full borrowing capacity under our credit facility if any of the committed lenders is unable or unwilling to fund their respective portion of any funding request we make under our credit facility and the other lenders are not willing to provide additional funding to make up the portion of the credit facility commitments that the defaulting lender has refused to fund. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding for our capital needs will be available from the credit markets if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If funding for capital expenditures is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to implement our long-term growth strategy, enhance our existing business, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We may incur substantial indebtedness or issue additional equity securities to execute our long-term growth strategy, which may reduce our profitability and result in significant dilution to our stockholders. Our long-term business strategy has included, and will continue to include, growth through the acquisitions of assets and businesses. To the extent we do not generate sufficient cash from operations, we may need to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions and capital expenditures and also may issue equity securities to finance such acquisitions and capital expenditures. For example, we funded our acquisition of the Diamondback assets through the issuance of preferred stock and second lien notes and additional borrowing under our credit facility. Our business is capital intensive, with long lead times required to fabricate our equipment. If available sources of capital are insufficient at any time in the future, we may be unable to fund maintenance requirements, acquisitions, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Any additional debt service requirements may impose a significant burden on our results of operations and financial condition. The issuance of additional equity securities could result in significant dilution to our stockholders. Furthermore, competition for acquisition opportunities may escalate, increasing our cost of making further acquisitions or causing us to refrain from making additional acquisitions. We also must meet certain financial covenants in order to borrow money under our 14 Table of Contents credit facility to fund capital expenditures, and we may be unable to meet such covenants. Turmoil in the credit markets over the past year and the potential impact on liquidity of major financial institutions may have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our business strategy through borrowings, under either existing or newly created instruments in the public or private markets on terms we believe to be reasonable. Our current and future indebtedness, including indebtedness associated with the Diamondback acquisition, could restrict our operations and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. Following the Diamondback acquisition, we have significantly higher levels of debt and interest expense than we had immediately prior to the acquisition. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $163.7 million of indebtedness outstanding. Our total debt could increase, as we have available borrowing capacity of $10.0 million under our credit facility as of December 31, 2009 and we could issue additional notes or other indebtedness in the future. A substantially increased level of combined indebtedness may have an adverse effect on our future operations, including: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, debt service requirements and other general corporate requirements; • limiting our ability to use operating cash flow to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and other general corporate requirements because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness; • limiting our ability to borrow funds that may be necessary to operate or expand our business; • putting us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors that have less debt; • increasing our vulnerability to interest rate increases; and • increasing our vulnerability to general economic downturns, competition and industry conditions, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged. Our credit facility and the terms of the indenture under which we issued our second lien notes in November 2008 also require us to maintain certain financial ratios and satisfy certain financial conditions and limits our ability to take various actions, such as incurring additional indebtedness, purchasing assets and merging or consolidating with other entities. Recent changes to our credit facility may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. We recently entered into an amendment to the credit agreement evidencing our credit facility that has reduced the total commitment under our credit facility to $100 million effective as of January 1, 2010, which amount will be further reduced by (i) an additional $25.0 million upon our receipt of a federal income tax refund of $20 million or more and (ii) by an additional $25.0 million upon the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of our fluid logistics services business. This reduction may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future liquidity needs. We cannot be certain that alternative funding will be available on acceptable terms. If available borrowings under our credit facility are insufficient to meet our liquidity needs and alternative funding is not available as needed, or is available only on more expensive or otherwise unfavorable terms, we may be unable to fund operating cash flow shortfalls, fund planned capital expenditures, make acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The amount we are able to borrow under our credit facility is determined based on the value of our accounts receivable and property, plant and equipment. As part of the recent amendments to the credit agreement evidencing our credit facility, we revised the definition of “borrowing base” to consist solely of 80% of eligible accounts receivable if the total commitment under our credit facility is reduced to $50 million. Our borrowing base is subject to redetermination by lenders holding at least 51% of our outstanding borrowings on five days’ written notice. 15 Table of Contents Should there be a deficiency in the amount of our borrowing base in comparison to the outstanding debt under our credit facility, such deficiency would result in an event of default which would, absent a waiver or amendment, require repayment of outstanding indebtedness and accrued interest under the credit agreement within three business days. In addition, an event of default under the credit agreement would result in an event of default under the indenture governing our second lien notes, which could require repayment of the outstanding principal and interest on such notes. If we were unable to make those repayments, these defaults would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. If we fail to generate sufficient consolidated EBITDA during 2010 to comply with our debt covenants, we could be in default under the credit agreement evidencing our credit facility and the indenture governing our second lien notes. The credit agreement evidencing our credit facility and the indenture governing our second lien notes contain a covenant that requires us to maintain a minimum quarterly consolidated EBITDA of $(2.5) million, $0, $0, $0 and $10 million for the fourth quarter of 2009, and the first, second, third and fourth quarters of 2010, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with this covenant. Demand for the majority of our services is dependent on the level of oil and gas expenditures made by our customers, which makes our operations sensitive to the current lower demand for energy and lower prices for oil and natural gas. As a result of the reduced demand for oilfield services in the markets that we serve, it may be difficult for us to generate enough consolidated EBITDA in future quarters to comply with the covenant described above. Any failure to be in compliance with any material provision or covenant of our credit agreement could result in a default which would, absent a waiver or amendment, require immediate repayment of outstanding indebtedness under our credit facility. Additionally, any event of default under our credit agreement would result in an event of default under the indenture governing our second lien notes, which could also require repayment of the outstanding principal and interest on such notes and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Description of Our Indebtedness” for a discussion of our credit facility. If we do not successfully manage the potential difficulties associated with our long-term growth strategy, our operating results could be adversely affected. We have grown rapidly over the last several years through internal growth, including the establishment of new service centers, and acquisitions of other businesses and assets. We believe our future success depends in part on our ability to manage the rapid growth we have experienced and the demands from increased responsibility on our management personnel. The following factors among others, could present difficulties to us: • lack of sufficient experienced management personnel; • failure to anticipate the actual cost and timing of establishing new service centers; • failure to identify all material risks and liabilities associated with acquisitions; • increased administrative burden; and • increased logistical problems common to large, expansive operations. If we do not manage these potential difficulties successfully, our operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, we may have difficulties managing the increased costs associated with our growth, which could adversely affect our operating margins and profitability. It has been our experience that when we establish a new service center in a particular operating region, it may take from 12 to 24 months before that service center has a positive impact on the operating income that we generate in the relevant region. Additionally, discounts at new service centers are typically higher than at established service centers. For example, the opening of our service centers in Oklahoma, Colorado, Wyoming and New Mexico in 2007 was materially delayed due to late equipment deliveries, facility procurement delays and holdups in obtaining regulatory permits. These delays caused these service centers to open much later in 2007 than originally planned 16 Table of Contents and resulted in lower 2007 revenue for the new service centers in Oklahoma and New Mexico and no revenue contribution for the new service centers in Colorado and Wyoming. As a result, our net income and earnings per share in 2007 were materially lower than anticipated. We may continue to experience material negative impacts on our earnings due to our long-term expansion program and the delay in new service centers becoming profitable. Our long-term business strategy also includes growth through the acquisitions of assets and other businesses. Acquisitions and business expansions involve numerous risks, including difficulties with the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired business, inefficiencies and difficulties that arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the business associated with them and new geographic areas and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations of management are combined. We may not be successful in integrating our acquisitions into our existing operations or in identifying all potential risks and liabilities associated with those acquisitions, which may result in unforeseen operational difficulties or diminished financial performance or require a disproportionate amount of our management’s attention. Even if we are successful in integrating our acquisitions into our existing operations, we may not derive the benefits, such as operational or administrative synergies, that we expected from such acquisitions, which may result in the commitment of our capital resources without the expected returns on such capital. We depend on a relatively small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue. The inability of one or more of our customers to meet their obligations or the loss of our business with Chesapeake Energy Corp. or Atlas America, Inc., in particular, may adversely affect our financial results. Although we have expanded our customer base, we derive a significant amount of our revenue from a relatively small number of independent oil and natural gas companies. In 2008 and 2009, eight companies accounted for 44% and 51% of our revenue, respectively. Our inability to continue to provide services to these key customers, if not offset by additional sales to other customers, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, the revenue we derived from our two largest customers, Chesapeake Energy Corp. and Atlas America, Inc., constituted approximately 21% and 11%, respectively, of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009. These companies may not provide the same level of our revenue in the future for a variety of reasons, including their lack of funding, a strategic shift on their part in moving to different geographic areas in which we do not operate or our failure to meet their performance criteria. The loss of all or a significant part of this revenue would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. This concentration of customers may also impact our overall exposure to credit risk in that customers may be similarly affected by changes in economic and industry condition. Our customers are largely independent oil and natural gas producers, who are adversely affected by declines in the price of oil and natural gas. We do not generally require collateral in support of our trade receivables. A sustained decrease in prices, coupled with the continued weakness in the credit and capital markets, could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations of our customers and could further increase our credit risk. The sustained decline in oil and natural gas prices and continued weakness in the credit and capital markets may expose us to credit risk from customers and counterparties. We regularly review the financial performance of our customers. However, we do not generally require collateral in support of trade receivables, and the limited number of customers on which we depend for a substantial portion of our revenue exposes us to concentration of credit risk in that customers may be adversely affected by changes in economic and industry conditions. Our customers are largely independent oil and natural gas producers who are adversely affected by declines in the credit and capital markets and the price of oil and natural gas. Additional slowing of global economic conditions and further decreases in demand for oil and natural gas resulting in lower prices may adversely impact the financial viability of and increase the credit risk associated with our customers. Customer insolvencies in the oil and natural gas industry resulting from the recent economic downturn or lower oil and natural gas prices, or the financial failure of a large customer or distributor, an important supplier, or a group thereof, could require us to assume greater credit risk and could limit our ability to collect receivables. Although we intend to expand our customer base in an attempt to mitigate the concentration of credit risk, our inability to collect receivables could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Competition within the oilfield services industry may adversely affect our ability to market our services. The oilfield services industry is highly competitive and fragmented and includes several large companies that compete in many of the markets we serve, as well as numerous small companies that compete with us on a local basis. Our larger competitors’ greater resources could allow them to better withstand industry downturns, compete more effectively on the basis of technology and geographic scope and retain skilled personnel. We believe the principal competitive factors in the market areas we serve are price, product and service quality, safety record, availability of crews and equipment and technical proficiency. Our operations may be adversely affected if our current competitors or new market entrants introduce new products or services with better features, performance, prices or other characteristics than our products and services or expand into service areas where we operate. Competitive pressures or other factors also may result in significant price competition, particularly during industry downturns, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our industry is prone to overcapacity, which results in increased competition and lower prices for our services. Because crude oil and natural gas prices and drilling activity were at historically high levels during 2007 and 2008, oilfield service companies acquired additional equipment to meet their customers’ increasing demand for services. This has resulted in an increased competitive environment and a significant increase in capacity among us and our competitors in certain of our operating regions. For example, this increased capacity resulted in significant downward pricing pressure and increased discounts for our services in certain of our operating regions, which adversely affected our financial condition and results of operations in 2009. Additionally, prices for crude oil and natural gas and utilization rates for drilling rigs declined significantly in the fourth quarter of 2008 and in 2009. A sustained decline in these prices could result in a lower number of wells that are commercially viable for the oil and natural gas producers that we service. A reduction in the number of wells that require service could also increase overcapacity in our industry. To the extent that overcapacity persists in 2010, we will continue to experience significant downward pricing pressure and lower demand for our services, which will continue to adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The loss of or interruption in operations of one or more of our key suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our reliance on outside suppliers for some of the key materials and equipment we use in providing our services involves risks, including limited control over the price, timely delivery and quality of such materials or equipment. As a result of the shale play expansion, we require substantially higher volumes of raw materials and equipment than we have historically needed. Our suppliers may not be able to satisfy this increased demand on schedule or at favorable prices and we may become more vulnerable to supply disruptions. With the exception of our contracts with our largest suppliers of nitrogen and fracturing sand, we have no contracts with our suppliers to ensure the continued supply of materials. Historically, we have placed orders with our suppliers for periods of less than one year. Any required changes in our suppliers could cause material delays in our operations and increase our costs. In addition, our suppliers may not be able to meet our future demands as to volume, quality or timeliness. Our inability to obtain timely delivery of key materials or equipment of acceptable quality or any significant increases in prices of materials or equipment could result in material operational delays, increase our operating costs, limit our ability to service our customers’ wells or materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. We may not be able to keep pace with the continual and rapid technological developments that characterize the market for our services, and our failure to do so may result in our loss of market share. The market for our services is characterized by continual and rapid technological developments that have resulted in, and will likely continue to result in, substantial improvements in equipment functions and performance. As a result, our future success and profitability will be dependent in part upon our ability to: • improve our existing services and related equipment; 18 Table of Contents • address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers; and • anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and respond to technological developments on a timely basis. If we are not successful in acquiring new equipment or upgrading our existing equipment on a timely and cost-effective basis in response to technological developments or changes in standards in our industry, we could lose market share. In addition, current competitors or new market entrants may develop new technologies, services or standards that could render some of our services or equipment obsolete, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our industry has experienced shortages in the availability of qualified field personnel. Any difficulty we experience adding or replacing qualified field personnel could adversely affect our business. We may not be able to find enough skilled labor to meet our employment needs, which could limit our growth. There has recently been a reduced pool of qualified workers in our industry, particularly in the Rocky Mountain region, due to increased activity in the oilfield services and commercial trucking sectors. A reduction in the number of qualified workers now or in the future may make it difficult to find enough skilled and unskilled laborers if the demand for our services increases, including in particular demand related to our completion, production and rental tool services. In that event, it is possible that we will have to raise wage rates to attract and train workers from other fields in order to retain or expand our current work force. If we are not able to increase our service rates sufficiently to compensate for wage rate increases, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Other factors may also limit our ability to find enough workers to meet our employment needs. Our services are performed by licensed commercial truck drivers and equipment operators who must perform physically demanding work. As a result of our industry volatility and the demanding nature of the work, workers may choose to pursue employment in fields that offer a more desirable work environment at wage rates that are competitive with ours. We believe that our success is dependent upon our ability to continue to employ, train and retain skilled technical personnel. Our inability to do so would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our customers’ activity levels and demand for our services may be impacted by future legislation that may eliminate certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development. President Obama’s Proposed Fiscal Year 2010 Budget includes proposed legislation that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to United States tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to the oil and gas exploration and development activities conducted by our customers, and any such change could materially and adversely affect our customers’ activity levels and spending for our products and services which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The loss of key members of our management or the failure to attract and motivate key personnel could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend to a large extent on the services of some of our executive officers and directors. The loss of the services of David E. Wallace, our Chief Executive Officer, Jacob B. Linaberger, our President, Rhys R. Reese, an Executive Vice President and our Chief Operating Officer, and other key personnel, or the failure to attract and motivate key personnel, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents We have entered into employment agreements with Messrs. Wallace, Reese and Linaberger that contain non-compete agreements. Notwithstanding these agreements, we may not be able to retain our executive officers and may not be able to enforce all of the provisions in the employment agreements. We do not maintain key person life insurance on the lives of any of our executive officers or directors. The death or disability of any of our executive officers or directors may also adversely affect our operations. Our operations are subject to inherent risks, some of which are beyond our control, and these risks may not be fully covered under our insurance policies. The occurrence of a significant event that is not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, such as, but not limited to, accidents, blowouts, explosions, craterings, fires, oil spills and hazardous materials spills. These conditions can cause: • personal injury or loss of life; • destruction of property, equipment, the environment and wildlife; and • suspension of operations. The occurrence of a significant event or adverse claim in excess of the insurance coverage that we maintain or that is not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, claims for loss of oil and natural gas production and damage to formations can occur in the well services industry. Litigation arising from a catastrophic occurrence at a wellsite location where our equipment and services are being used may result in us being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting large claims. The frequency and severity of such incidents affect our operating costs, insurability and relationships with customers, employees and regulators. Any increase in the frequency or severity of such incidents could affect our ability to obtain projects from oil and natural gas companies. We do not have insurance against all foreseeable risks, either because insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs. In addition, we are subject to various self-retentions and deductibles under our insurance policies. The occurrence of an event not fully insured against, or the failure of an insurer to meet its insurance obligations, could result in substantial losses. We also may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable, and insurance may not be available to cover any or all of these risks, or, even if available, that it will be adequate or that insurance premiums or other costs will not rise significantly in the future, so as to make such insurance cost prohibitive. In addition, our insurance is subject to coverage limits and some policies exclude coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding issues of health, safety and protection of the environment. Under these laws and regulations, we may become liable for penalties arising from non-compliance, property and natural resource damages or costs of performing remediation. Any changes in these laws and regulations could increase our costs of doing business. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of natural resources and the environment, health and safety, waste management, and transportation of waste and other substances. Liability under these laws and regulations could result in cancellation of well operations, expenditures for compliance and remediation, and liability for property damages and personal injuries. Sanctions for noncompliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations may include assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, revocation of permits and issuance of corrective action orders. In addition, the oil and natural gas operations of our customers and therefore our operations, particularly in the Rocky Mountain region, are limited by lease stipulations designed to protect various wildlife. Our down-hole surveying operations use densitometers containing sealed, low-grade radioactive sources such as Cesium-137 that aid in determining the density of down-hole cement slurries, waters and sands as well as help evaluate the porosity of specified subsurface formations. Our activities involving the use of densitometers are regulated by the NRC and certain states under agreement with the NRC work cooperatively in implementing the 20 Table of Contents federal regulations. In addition, our down-hole surveying operations involve the use of explosive charges that are regulated by the U.S. Department of Justice, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives. Standards implemented by these regulatory agencies require us to obtain licenses or other approvals for the use of such densitometers as well as explosive charges. Among the assets that we acquired from Diamondback were six injection well disposal systems in North Texas and southern Oklahoma. We dispose of fluids, including saltwater, into the disposal wells, which poses some risk of liability, including leakage from the wells to surface and subsurface soils, surface water or groundwater. We also handle, transport and store these fluids. The handling, transportation, storage and disposal of these fluids are regulated by a number of laws, including the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act; the Clean Water Act; the Safe Drinking Water Act; and other federal and state laws and regulations. We also acquired assets that necessitate the handling of petroleum products, and failure to properly handle, store, transport or dispose of these materials in accordance with applicable environmental laws and regulations could expose us to liability for administrative, civil and criminal penalties, cleanup costs and liability associated with releases of such materials, damages to natural resources, and actions enjoining some or all of our operations. Laws protecting the environment generally have become more stringent over time and are expected to continue to do so, which could lead to material increases in costs for future environmental compliance and remediation. The modification or interpretation of existing laws or regulations, or the adoption of new laws or regulations, could curtail exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and natural gas and could limit our well services opportunities. Some environmental laws and regulations may impose joint and several, strict liability, which means that in some situations we could be exposed to liability as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or due to the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior operators or other third parties. Clean-up costs and other damages arising as a result of environmental laws and regulations, and costs associated with changes in such laws and regulations could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Please read “Business — Environmental Regulation” for more information on the environmental laws and government regulations that are applicable to us. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for our services. On December 15, 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases” present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings allow the EPA to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. Accordingly, the EPA has proposed regulations that would require a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and could trigger permit review for greenhouse gas emissions from certain stationary sources. In addition, on October 30, 2009, the EPA published a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. Also, on June 26, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the “American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009,” or “ACESA,” which would establish an economy-wide cap-and-trade program to reduce U.S. emissions of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide and methane. ACESA would require a 17% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from 2005 levels by 2020 and just over an 80% reduction of such emissions by 2050. Under this legislation, the EPA would issue a capped and steadily declining number of tradable emissions allowances authorizing emissions of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. These reductions would be expected to cause the cost of allowances to escalate significantly over time. The net effect of ACESA will be to impose increasing costs on the combustion of carbon-based fuels such as oil, refined petroleum products, and natural gas. The U.S. Senate has begun work on its own legislation for restricting domestic greenhouse gas emissions and the Obama Administration has indicated its support for legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through an emission allowance system. At the state level, more than one-third of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from, our equipment and operations or those of exploration and production operators for whom we perform oil and natural gas-related services could require us to 21 Table of Contents incur costs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations or could adversely affect demand for our oil and natural gas support services. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations. Federal legislation and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays as well as adversely affect our support services. Congress is currently considering two companions bills for the “Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act,” or “FRAC Act.” The bills would repeal an exemption in the federal Safe Drinking Water Act (“SWDA”) for the underground injection of hydraulic fracturing fluids near drinking water sources. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and commonly used process for the completion of natural gas, and to a lesser extent, oil wells in shale formations, and involves the pressurized injection of water, sand and chemicals into rock formations to stimulate natural gas production. Sponsors of the FRAC Act have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. If enacted, the FRAC Act could result in additional regulatory burdens such as permitting, construction, financial assurance, monitoring, recordkeeping, and plugging and abandonment requirements. The FRAC Act also proposes requiring the disclosure of chemical constituents used in the fracturing process to state or federal regulatory authorities, who would then make such information publicly available. The availability of this information could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. In addition, various state and local governments are considering increased regulatory oversight of hydraulic fracturing through additional permit requirements, operational restrictions, and temporary or permanent bans on hydraulic fracturing in certain environmentally sensitive areas such as watersheds. The adoption of the FRAC Act or any other federal or state laws or regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or otherwise limiting, the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult to complete natural gas wells in shale formations, increase our costs of compliance, and adversely affect the hydraulic fracturing services that we render for our exploration and production customers. The Subcommittee on Energy and Environment the of the U.S. House of Representatives (the “House Subcommittee”) is currently examining the practice of hydraulic fracturing in the United States and is gathering information on its potential impacts on human health and the environment. On February 18, 2010, we, along with seven other oilfield service companies that perform hydraulic fracturing in the United States, received a letter from the House Subcommittee requesting the voluntary production of various categories of data and other information relating to hydraulic fracturing activities between 2005 and 2009. There have been no allegations made against us related to our hydraulic fracturing activities, and we have notified the House Subcommittee that we intend to cooperate in providing the requested information. Our internal control over financial reporting may be or become insufficient to allow us to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which could cause our financial statements to become materially misleading and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to furnish a report by our management on the design and operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In connection with our Section 404 compliance efforts, we continue to identify remedial measures to improve or strengthen our internal control over financial reporting. If these measures are insufficient to address any future issues, or if material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting are discovered in the future, we may fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. If we fail to meet these obligations, our financial statements could become materially misleading, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. 22 Table of Contents We are a holding company, with no revenue generating operations of our own. Any restrictions on our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions to us would materially impact our financial condition and our ability to service our obligations. We are a holding company with no business operations, sources of income, indebtedness or assets of our own other than our ownership interests in our subsidiaries. Because all our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries, our cash flow and our ability to repay our debt is dependent upon cash dividends and distributions or other transfers from our subsidiaries. Payment of dividends, distributions, loans or advances by our subsidiaries to us will be subject to restrictions imposed by the current and future debt instruments of our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities. Any right that we will have to receive any assets of or distributions from any of our subsidiaries upon the bankruptcy, dissolution, liquidation or reorganization of any such subsidiary, or to realize proceeds from the sale of their assets, will be junior to the claims of that subsidiary’s creditors, including trade creditors and holders of debt issued by that subsidiary. Unionization efforts could increase our costs or limit our flexibility. Presently, none of our employees work under collective bargaining agreements. Unionization efforts have been made from time to time within our industry, with varying degrees of success. Any such unionization could increase our costs or limit our flexibility. Severe weather could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by severe weather. Repercussions of severe weather conditions may include: • curtailment of services; • weather-related damage to equipment resulting in suspension of operations; • weather-related damage to our facilities; • inability to deliver materials to jobsites in accordance with contract schedules; and • loss of productivity. In addition, oil and natural gas operations of potential customers located in the Appalachian, Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions of the United States can be adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions, primarily in the spring. Many municipalities impose weight restrictions on the paved roads that lead to our jobsites due to the muddy conditions caused by spring thaws. This can limit our access to these jobsites and our ability to service wells in these areas. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs in those regions. A terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm our business. Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts and other armed conflict involving the United States may adversely affect the U.S. and global economies and could prevent us from meeting our financial and other obligations. If any of these events occur or escalate, the resulting political instability and societal disruption could reduce overall demand for oil and natural gas, potentially putting downward pressure on demand for our services and causing a reduction in our revenue. Oil and natural gas related facilities could be direct targets of terrorist attacks, and our operations could be adversely impacted if infrastructure integral to customer’s operations is destroyed or damaged. Costs for insurance and other security may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 Table of Contents 