Item 1A. Risk Factors. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements concerning the conditions in our industry, our operations, our anticipated financial performance and financial condition, and our business plans, growth strategy and product development efforts. The words “may,” “might,” “will,” “should,” “estimate,” “project,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend,” “outlook,” “believe” and other similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates and assumptions by our management that, although we believe to be reasonable, are inherently uncertain and subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, those identified under the captions “Business,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report before making an investment decision. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by law. Risks Relating to Our Business If generic products that compete with any of our branded pharmaceutical products are approved and sold, sales of our products will be adversely affected. Generic equivalents for branded pharmaceutical products are typically sold by competing companies at a lower cost than the branded product. After the introduction of a competing generic product, a significant percentage of the prescriptions previously written for the branded product are often written for the generic version. In addition, legislation enacted in most states in the United States allows or, in some instances mandates, that a pharmacist dispense an available generic equivalent when filling a prescription for a branded product, in the absence of specific instructions from the prescribing physician. As a result, branded products typically experience a significant loss in revenues following the introduction of a competing generic product. Our branded pharmaceutical products are or may become subject to competition from generic equivalents because there is no proprietary protection for some of the branded pharmaceutical products we sell, because our patent protection expires or because our patent protection is not sufficiently broad or enforceable. In addition, we may not be successful in our efforts to extend the proprietary protection afforded our branded products through the development and commercialization of proprietary product improvements and new and enhanced dosage forms. Competition from generic equivalents could result in an impairment of our intangible assets or the acceleration of amortization on our non-impaired intangible assets and have a material adverse impact on our revenues, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our ACTONEL products no longer have patent protection in Canada or the Western European countries in which we sell these products, and ASACOL is not protected by a patent in the United Kingdom. In addition, other products such as ESTRACE Cream and FEMHRT are not protected by patents in the United States where we sell these products. Generic equivalents are currently available in Canada and Western Europe for ACTONEL and in the United States for our DORYX 75 and 100 mg products, certain versions of our FEMHRT products, FEMCON FE and certain of other less significant products. During the next five years, additional products of ours will lose patent protection or likely become subject to generic competition. For example, our ASACOL 400 mg product will lose U.S. patent protection in July 2013, our ACTONEL once-a-week product will lose U.S. patent protection in June 2014 (including a 6-month pediatric extension of regulatory exclusivity) and our LOESTRIN 24 FE product will lose U.S. patent protection in July 2014. Some of our products may also become subject to generic competition prior to the expiration of patent protection in the event a generic competitor elects to launch its generic equivalent product “at-risk”. For example, although our DORYX 29 Table of Contents patent does not expire until 2022, and we and Mayne filed infringement lawsuits against Mylan and Impax arising from their ANDA filings with respect to our DORYX 75 mg and 100 mg products, generic versions of such products were launched “at-risk” in January 2011 following the FDA’s approval of their respective ANDAs. Our generic competitors may also challenge the validity or enforceability of the patents protecting our products or otherwise seek to circumvent them. For example, we and Mayne have received several challenges relating to our DORYX products. In March 2009, we and Mayne received Paragraph IV certification notice letters from Impax and Mylan indicating that each had submitted to the FDA an ANDA seeking approval to manufacture and sell a generic version of our DORYX 150 mg delayed-release tablets, which today account for all but a de minimis amount of our DORYX net sales. In March and May 2009, we and Mayne filed infringement lawsuits against each of Impax and Mylan. The resulting 30-month stay of FDA approval of each of Impax’s and Mylan’s ANDAs with respect to our DORYX 150 mg product expired in September 2011, and Mylan received final approval from the FDA for its generic version of the DORYX 150 mg product on February 8, 2012. We believe that Impax has not yet received tentative approval of its ANDA from the FDA. Our lawsuits against Impax and Mylan relating to our DORYX 150 mg product were tried in early February 2012, and the court has indicated that it expects to issue its decision by the end of February or early March 2012. The court has issued a temporary restraining order prohibiting Mylan from launching a generic version of our DORYX 150 mg product until the court renders its decision. If Mylan is successful in the trial, or if Impax receives final approval of its ANDA with respect to the DORYX 150 mg product from the FDA and is successful at trial or is not otherwise prohibited by the court, a generic equivalent of our DORYX 150 mg product could enter the market as early as the first quarter of 2012. Such entry would result in an impairment of our intangible assets relating to DORYX and have a material adverse impact on our revenues, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in subsequent periods. We have also received challenges from potential generic competitors with respect to our ACTONEL and ATELVIA products. In July 2004, PGP received a Paragraph IV certification notice letter from Teva regarding PGP’s NCE patent covering ACTONEL and indicating that Teva had submitted to the FDA an ANDA seeking approval to manufacture and sell generic versions of ACTONEL. PGP filed a patent infringement suit against Teva in August 2004. In that case, Teva admitted patent infringement but alleged that the NCE patent was invalid and, in February 2008, the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware decided in favor of PGP, upholding the NCE patent as valid and enforceable. Teva appealed, and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit unanimously upheld the decision of the District Court in May 2009. In 2008 and 2009, PGP and Roche received Paragraph IV certification notice letters from Teva, Sun and Apotex regarding the ‘938 ACTONEL Method Patent covering the once-a-month ACTONEL product and indicating that each such company had submitted to the FDA an ANDA seeking approval to manufacture and sell generic versions of the once-a-month ACTONEL product. In February 2010, we received a Paragraph IV certification notice letter from Mylan regarding the ‘938 ACTONEL Method Patent indicating that it had submitted to the FDA an ANDA seeking approval to manufacture and sell a generic version of the once-a-month ACTONEL product. PGP and Roche, which licensed the ACTONEL Method Patents to PGP, filed a patent infringement suit against Teva in September 2008, against Sun in January 2009 and against Apotex in March 2009 charging each with infringement of the ‘938 ACTONEL Method Patent. We and Roche filed a patent infringement suit against Mylan in April 2010 charging Mylan with infringement of the ‘938 ACTONEL Method Patent. In October, November and December 2010 and February 2011, we and Roche received Paragraph IV certification notice letters from Sun, Apotex, Teva and Mylan indicating that each such company had amended its existing ANDA covering generic versions of the once-a-month ACTONEL product to include the ‘634 ACTONEL Method Patent. We and Roche filed patent infringement suits against Sun and Apotex in December 2010, against Teva in January 2011 and against Mylan in March 2011 charging each with infringement of the ‘634 ACTONEL Method Patent. Our lawsuits against Teva, Apotex, Sun and Mylan for infringement of the ‘938 ACTONEL Method Patent were consolidated, and trial for those suits has been scheduled for July 2012. The subsequent lawsuits against Teva, Apotex, Sun and Mylan for infringement of the related ‘634 ACTONEL Method Patent have been consolidated with the suits relating to the ‘938 ACTONEL Method Patent for all pretrial purposes. The FDA has tentatively approved Teva’s ANDA with respect to the once-a-month ACTONEL product. However, the underlying ACTONEL NCE patent, which covers all of our ACTONEL products and ATELVIA, does not expire until June 2014 (including a 6-month pediatric extension of regulatory exclusivity). 30 Table of Contents In August and October 2011, we received Paragraph IV certification notice letters from Watson and Teva regarding the ATELVIA Patents and indicating that each such company had submitted to the FDA an ANDA seeking approval to manufacture and sell generic versions of the ATELVIA 35 mg product. We filed a patent infringement suit against Watson in October 2011 and against Teva in November 2011 charging each with infringement of the ATELVIA Patents. Neither Watson nor Teva certified against the NCE patent, which covers all of our ACTONEL and ATELVIA products and expires in June 2014 (including a 6-month pediatric extension of regulatory exclusivity). Our ASACOL products have also been subject to challenges from potential generic competitors. In June 2010, we and Medeva received a Paragraph IV certification notice letter from Par regarding the ASACOL Patent indicating that Par had submitted to the FDA an ANDA seeking approval to manufacture and sell a generic version of the ASACOL 400 mg product. We and Medeva filed a patent infringement suit against Par and EMET, the original filer of the ANDA, in August 2010, which resulted in a stay of FDA approval of Par’s ANDA until December 2012, subject to prior resolution of the suit. In October 2011, the court held a Markman hearing to determine claim construction of the patent claims at issue in the litigation. The court has not indicated when it expects to issue its Markman decision. In September 2011, we also received a Paragraph IV certification notice letter from Zydus regarding the ASACOL HD Patent and indicating that Zydus had submitted to the FDA an ANDA seeking approval to manufacture and sell a generic version of the ASACOL HD (800 mg) product. In addition, Zydus indicated that it had submitted a Paragraph III certification with respect to the ASACOL Patent, consenting to the delay of FDA approval of the ANDA product until the ASACOL Patent expires. In November 2011, we filed a patent infringement suit against Zydus charging Zydus with infringement of the ASACOL HD Patent. The lawsuit results in a stay of FDA approval of Zydus’ ANDA for 30 months from the date of our receipt of the Zydus notice letter, subject to the prior resolution of the matter before the court. We have also received challenges from potential generic competitors with respect to our contraceptive products, including LOESTRIN 24 FE and LO LOESTRIN FE. For example, in April 2011, we received a Paragraph IV certification notice letter from Mylan, as U.S. agent for Famy Care, regarding the LOESTRIN Patent and indicating that Famy Care had submitted to the FDA an ANDA seeking approval to manufacture and sell a generic version of the LOESTRIN 24 FE product. In June 2011, we filed a patent infringement suit against Famy Care and Mylan charging each with infringement of the LOESTRIN Patent. The lawsuit results in a stay of FDA approval of Famy Care’s ANDA for 30 months from the date of our receipt of the Famy Care notice letter, subject to the prior resolution of the matter before the court. In July 2011, we also received a Paragraph IV certification notice letter from Lupin regarding the LOESTRIN Patent and LO LOESTRIN Patent and indicating that Lupin had submitted to the FDA an ANDA seeking approval to manufacture and sell a generic version of the LO LOESTRIN FE product. In September 2011, we filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Lupin charging Lupin with infringement of the patents. The lawsuit results in a stay of FDA approval of Lupin’s ANDA for 30 months from the date of our receipt of the Lupin notice letter, subject to the prior resolution of the matter before the court. While we intend to vigorously defend each of our patents described above, and pursue our legal rights, including our right to any monetary damages when available, we can offer no assurance as to when any of our lawsuits will be decided, whether such lawsuits will be successful or that a generic equivalent of our products will not be approved and enter the market prior to the expiration of the applicable patents. See the table in Item 1. “Business — Our Principal Products” for a listing of the expiration dates for each of the patents described above. In addition, although we seek to enforce our legal rights against third parties when we believe that our intellectual property or other proprietary rights are infringed, we have in the past, and may in the future, enter into settlements of our litigation with generic competitors that result in the sale of generic products prior to the expiration of our patents. For example, as a result of our settlement in January 2009 of our outstanding patent litigation against Watson relating to LOESTRIN 24 FE, we granted Watson a non-exclusive license to launch a generic version of this product in 2014. More specifically, under the agreement, Watson was permitted to commence marketing its generic equivalent product on the earliest of (i) January 22, 2014, (ii) 180 days prior to a date on which we granted rights to a third party to market a generic version of LOESTRIN 24 FE in the U.S. or (iii) the date on which another generic version of LOESTRIN 24 FE enters the U.S. market without authorization from us. In addition, in December 2010 and January 2012, we settled patent litigation related to our DORYX 75 31 Table of Contents mg, 100 mg and 150 mg products with Heritage and Sandoz. Under the applicable settlement agreement, Heritage and Sandoz each agreed, among other things, not to market and sell a generic equivalent product until December 15, 2016, subject to certain exceptions. We can offer no assurance that generic equivalents of our LOESTRIN 24 FE and/or DORYX 150 mg products will not enter the market prior to the expiration of the applicable patents in 2014 and 2022, respectively. In addition, recent legislative and regulatory proposals, if adopted, could affect the duration of our patent protection for our products by limiting our future ability to settle litigation with companies that file ANDAs to sell generic versions of our products. We cannot predict the outcome of the matters described above or whether we will receive additional challenges to our intellectual property. If we lose market exclusivity for any of our products, it could result in an impairment of our intangible assets or the acceleration of amortization on our non-impaired intangible assets and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property are valuable assets, and if we are unable to protect them from infringement or challenges, our business prospects may be harmed. Due to our focus on branded products, we consider our trademarks to be valuable assets. Therefore, we actively manage our trademark portfolio, maintain long-standing trademarks and typically obtain trademark registrations for new brands. We also police our trademark portfolio against infringement. Our efforts to defend our trademarks may be unsuccessful and we may not have adequate remedies in the event of a finding of infringement due, for example, to the fact that a violating company may be insolvent. We also rely on patents, trade secrets and proprietary knowledge to protect our products. We take steps to protect our proprietary rights by filing applications for patents on certain inventions, by entering into confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment of invention agreements with our employees, consultants, licensees and other companies and enforcing our legal rights against third parties that we believe may infringe our intellectual property rights. We do not ultimately control whether we will be successful in enforcing our legal rights against third-party infringers, whether our patent applications will result in issued patents, whether our patents will be subjected to inter parte reexamination by the USPTO, whether our confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment of invention agreements will be breached and whether we will have adequate remedies in the event of any such breach, or whether our trade secrets will become known by competitors. We are today, and have in the past been, involved in litigation with respect to the validity and infringement of our patents. In addition, we may be involved in such litigation in the future. The outcome of this type of litigation is unpredictable, and if unfavorable, may deprive us of market exclusivity or prevent us from marketing and selling a product altogether. In addition, bringing and defending these lawsuits is costly, and consequently we may decide to not bring or defend such suits and to abandon the products to which they relate. See “Note 16” to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. If we lose market exclusivity for or stop marketing a product, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Delays in production or other disruptions within our supply chain could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our pharmaceutical manufacturing facility located in Fajardo, Puerto Rico currently manufactures many of our products, including LOESTRIN 24 FE and LO LOESTRIN FE, and packages our DORYX tablets and ENABLEX products. The PGP facility we acquired in Weiterstadt, Germany currently manufactures ASACOL tablets and packages ACTONEL for distribution outside the U.S. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires precise and reliable controls and is subject to significant compliance obligations under applicable laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with such requirements at our Fajardo, Weiterstadt or other facilities, we may be subjected to legal or regulatory action, including potential shutdowns, which could result in our failure to meet the demand for our existing products, the loss of all or a portion of our current market share or delays in the qualification of such facilities for the manufacture of our new products. 32 Table of Contents We currently contract with various third parties to manufacture certain of our pharmaceutical products and/or supply the API and other pharmaceutical ingredients necessary to manufacture our products. Certain of these third parties are currently our sole source of supply for the applicable product or product component. If we are unable to renew these third party contracts on favorable terms or identify an acceptable replacement, any of our suppliers experience financial difficulties or any of our suppliers fail to provide us with products or product components without interruption or comply with their obligations under our various supply arrangements, we may experience a delay in supply which could be significant. In the event of such a delay, we may not have adequate contractual or equitable remedies for any breach. Our suppliers have occasionally been unable to meet all of our orders, which has led to the depletion of our safety stock and temporary shortages of trade supply and promotional samples, and we may in the future experience additional interruptions in our product supply if any of our suppliers are unable to meet our needs. The manufacture of our products, including product components such as API, is highly regulated, and any failure by our own manufacturing facilities or the facilities of any third-party supplier (each a “product supplier”), to comply with regulatory requirements could adversely affect our supply of products. All facilities and manufacturing techniques used for the manufacture of pharmaceutical products must be operated in conformity with cGMPs. In complying with cGMP requirements, product suppliers must continually expend time, money and effort in production, record-keeping and quality assurance and control to ensure that their products meet applicable specifications and other requirements for product safety, efficacy and quality. Manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Failure to comply with applicable legal requirements (including, in the case of our manufacturing facility located in Fajardo, certain obligations that we assumed in our purchase of the facility arising out of a consent decree entered into by the previous owner) subjects product suppliers to possible legal or regulatory action, including shutdown, which may adversely affect such product supplier’s ability to supply product. The FDA and other regulatory authorities must approve suppliers of certain active and inactive pharmaceutical ingredients and certain packaging materials used in our products as well as suppliers of finished products, and the approval process can be lengthy. The development, regulatory approval and commercial sales of our products are dependent upon our ability to procure these ingredients, packaging materials and finished products from suppliers approved by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. In the event that certain ingredients, packaging materials or finished products were no longer available from the initially approved supplier or that supplier had its approval from the FDA or other regulatory authority withdrawn, we would be required to find a new approved supplier. The qualification of a new product supplier or a new supplier of product components could potentially halt or delay the manufacture of the drug involved. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain API, packaging materials or finished products from a new supplier on terms that are as favorable to us as those agreed to with the initially approved supplier or at reasonable prices. We also contract with various third parties to package and distribute certain of our products. If we are unable to renew these third party contracts on favorable terms or identify an acceptable replacement or any of these parties experience financial difficulties or fail to satisfy their contractual obligations, we may experience a disruption in our supply chain which could be significant. In the event of such a disruption, we may not have adequate contractual or equitable remedies for any breach. In addition, our product supply chain could be negatively impacted by a number of other factors outside of our control, including labor disputes or shortages, natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods, fires and earthquakes and security threats. For example, hurricanes are relatively common in Puerto Rico where our Fajardo and Manati facilities are located, and the severity of such natural disasters is unpredictable. Any delay or disruption in our supply chain could result in our inability to meet the demand for our products or the loss of all or a portion of our market share with respect to such products, and materially adversely affect our revenues, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 33 Table of Contents Pricing pressures from managed care organizations and other third-party payors, government sponsored health systems and regulations relating to Medicare and Medicaid, healthcare reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement and pricing in general could decrease our revenues. Our commercial success in producing, marketing and selling products depends, in part, on the availability of adequate reimbursement from third-party healthcare payors, such as managed care organizations and government bodies and agencies, for the cost of the products and related treatments. The market for our products may be limited by actions of third-party payors. Managed care organizations and other third-party payors try to negotiate the pricing of medical services and products to control their costs, including by developing formularies to encourage plan beneficiaries to utilize preferred products for which the plans have negotiated favorable terms. Exclusion of a product from a formulary, or placement of a product on a disfavored formulary tier, can lead to sharply reduced usage in the managed care organization patient population. If our products are not included within an adequate number of formularies or if adequate reimbursements are not provided, or if reimbursement policies increasingly favor generic products, our market share and business could be negatively affected. For example, net sales of some of our ACTONEL products in recent years have experienced decreased demand in the United States as a result of aggressive managed care initiatives implemented to favor generic versions of competing branded products, and we cannot ensure that our efforts to address these market share pressures through, among other things, the marketing of our new bisphosphonate product, ATELVIA, will succeed in limiting any further loss of market share. We also experience pricing pressures from government sponsored health systems, particularly as a result of regulations relating to Medicare and Medicaid. In 2006, the Medicare Part D outpatient prescription drug benefit went into effect, which provides elderly and disabled patients eligible for Medicare with access to subsidized prescription drug coverage. Coverage under Medicare Part D is provided primarily through private entities, which act as plan sponsors. These plan sponsors use their purchasing power under these programs to demand discounts from pharmaceutical companies that may implicitly create price controls on prescription drugs. As a result, our revenues from products such as ACTONEL, which are covered by the Medicare drug benefit, have decreased and may decrease further. With respect to our drug products reimbursed under the Medicaid program, most states have established preferred drug lists (“PDLs”) and require that manufacturers pay supplemental rebates, in addition to the federal rebate, to the state in order to be included in the PDL or to avoid being placed in a disfavored position on the state formulary. Publicly funded drug insurance programs operated by provincial and territorial governments in Canada also maintain formularies that similarly may require us to provide our products at reduced prices in order to be listed on the applicable government formulary. In addition, most European Union member states impose controls on the prices at which medicines are reimbursed under state-run healthcare schemes. In many European countries reimbursement of a product is conditional on the agreement by the seller not to sell the product above a fixed price in that country. Often the reimbursement price is established unilaterally by the national authorities and is accompanied by the inclusion of the product on a list of reimbursable products. Some member states operate reference pricing systems in which they set national reimbursement prices by reference to those in other member states. Increased pressures to reduce government healthcare spending and increased transparency of prices following the adoption of the euro have meant that an increasing number of governments have adopted this approach. Furthermore, increased price transparency or the loss of exclusivity, such as our loss of exclusivity for ACTONEL in Western European markets in late 2010, may result in an increase in parallel importation of pharmaceuticals from lower price level countries to higher priced markets, which could lower our effective average selling price. 34 Table of Contents Recent healthcare reforms have affected, and may further affect, the pricing and reimbursement of our products and have a material adverse effect on our revenues, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In the U.S., the enactment of the PPACA substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private payors and significantly affects many companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including us. These changes included, among other things: • an increase in certain Medicaid rebates, including (i) the minimum basic Medicaid rebate for branded prescription drugs (from 15.1% of AMP to 23.1% of AMP) and (ii) the additional rebate on “line extensions” of solid oral dosage forms of branded products; • a revised definition of AMP that eliminates the inclusion of certain non-retail channel segments; • a requirement that manufacturers pay states rebates on prescription drugs dispensed to Medicaid managed care enrollees; • an expansion of the categories of entities eligible for Section 340B discounted pricing on outpatient drugs; • a requirement that manufacturers provide a 50% discount on prescriptions filled while the beneficiary is in the Medicare Part D coverage gap, also known as the “donut hole”; and • the payment by drug manufacturers of an annual fee (which is non-deductible for U.S. federal income tax purposes) based on the manufacturer’s market share of sales of branded drugs and biologics to, or pursuant to coverage under, specified U.S. government programs. In addition, in 2011, regulations and guidance were issued pursuant to the PPACA requiring health plans generally to eliminate any patient cost-sharing, such as co-payments, co-insurance or deductibles, on certain preventive health care services, including oral contraceptives. However, under the regulation, plans may be able to retain some flexibility to use reasonable medical management techniques to determine how to cover preventive services, including the ability to require cost-sharing for branded drugs if a generic version is available. It is not yet clear how this regulation will be implemented and what effect, if any, it may have on the market for branded oral contraceptives such as our LOESTRIN products. We are unable to predict the future course of health care legislation and regulations, including additional regulations that will be issued to implement the provisions of the PPACA. Further, U.S. federal and state governments as well as foreign governments continue to propose other legislative and regulatory measures aimed at reforming their respective healthcare systems, including proposals in the U.S. to permit the federal government to use its purchasing power to negotiate further discounts from pharmaceutical companies under Medicare. The PPACA and future healthcare reform legislation could decrease the prices we receive for our products or our sales volume, impose additional taxes or other measures that result in an increase to our costs of doing business and have a material adverse effect on our revenues, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Taxing authorities could reallocate our taxable income among our subsidiaries, which could increase our consolidated tax liability, and changes in tax laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We conduct operations world-wide through subsidiaries in various tax jurisdictions. Certain aspects of the transactions between our subsidiaries, including our transfer pricing (which is the pricing we use in transactions between our various subsidiaries) and our intercompany financing arrangements, could be challenged by applicable taxing authorities. While we believe both our transfer pricing and our intercompany financing arrangements comply with existing tax rules, either or both could be challenged by the applicable taxing authorities. Following any such challenge, our taxable income could be reallocated among our subsidiaries. Such reallocation could both increase our consolidated tax liability and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 35 Table of Contents We previously entered into an Advance Pricing Agreement (the “APA”) with the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) covering the calendar years 2006 through 2010. This APA was applicable to our U.S. operations as they existed prior to the PGP Acquisition. While we are seeking a renewal of our APA covering calendar years after 2010, we cannot ensure that a renewal of our APA will be concluded or that any renewal of the APA will contain terms comparable to those in our APA for the calendar years 2006 through 2010. If we do not renew our APA, while we believe that our transfer pricing arrangements comply with existing U.S. tax rules, the IRS could challenge our transfer pricing arrangements. In addition, our future operating results, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by changes in the application of tax principles, including tax rates, new tax laws, or revised interpretations of existing tax laws and precedents. Changes in market conditions, including lower than expected cash flows or revenues for our branded pharmaceutical products as a result of competition from other branded products, may result in our inability to realize the value of our products, in which case we may have to record an impairment charge. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapid product development and technological change, and as a result, our pharmaceutical products could be rendered obsolete or their value may be significantly decreased by the development of new technology or new branded pharmaceutical products indicated for the treatment of conditions currently addressed by our products, technological advances that reduce the cost of production or marketing or pricing actions by one or more of our competitors. For example, net sales of our ACTONEL products have experienced decreased demand in the United States due to market share gains by competing products. We cannot ensure that our efforts to address these market share pressures through, among other things, the marketing of new products such as ATELVIA, will succeed in limiting any loss of market share. Some of the companies we compete against have significantly greater resources than we do, and therefore, may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products than we can. Our inability to compete successfully with respect to these or other factors may materially and adversely affect our cash flows or revenues, or may result in our inability to realize the value of our branded pharmaceutical products, including products acquired from third parties, and may require us to record an impairment charge which may be material. Certain key products generate a significant percentage of our revenues, and any events that adversely affect the markets for these products could materially reduce our revenues and earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2011, revenues of our ACTONEL, ASACOL and LOESTRIN 24 FE products represented 70% of our total revenue for the period. Any events that adversely affect the future sales of these products could materially reduce our revenues and earnings. These events could include loss of patent protection, competition from generic versions of our products, generic versions of competing branded products (including those that compete with our ACTONEL and oral contraceptive products) and branded products, the discovery of previously unknown side effects, pricing pressures and reimbursement policy changes and any production delays. For example, as discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, ACTONEL products lost patent protection in Canada and Western European countries in 2010, and certain ACTONEL and ASACOL products have experienced market share declines in the U.S. as a result of competition from other branded and generic products. In addition, ACTONEL revenues in the U.S. have been adversely impacted by declines in the overall oral bisphosphonate market. Extensive legal and regulatory requirements could make it more difficult for us to obtain new or expanded approvals for our products, and could limit our ability or make it more burdensome to commercialize our approved products. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to extensive regulation by national, regional, state and local governmental authorities, and we are required in the United States and other countries to obtain approval from regulatory authorities before we can manufacture, market and sell our products. Even after approval, the relevant 36 Table of Contents governmental authorities continue to review marketed products and can, among other things, require additional studies and testing, restrict the marketing of an approved product, impose new risk management requirements, cause the withdrawal of the product from the market, or under certain circumstances seek recalls, seizures, injunctions or criminal sanctions. For example, in the U.S. the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 provided the FDA with extensive authority to impose post-approval clinical study and clinical trial requirements, require safety-related changes to product labeling, review advertising aimed at consumers, and require the adoption of risk management plans, referred to in the legislation as risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (“REMS”). The REMS may include requirements for special labeling or medication guides for patients and special communication plans for healthcare professionals, and may also impose restrictions on the distribution and use of products. For example, if the FDA were to make the requisite findings, it might require that a new product be prescribed only by physicians with certain specialized training, only in certain designated healthcare settings, or only in conjunction with special patient testing and monitoring. The legislation also includes provisions requiring the disclosure to the public of certain information regarding ongoing clinical trials for drugs through a clinical trial registry and for disclosing clinical trial results to the public through a clinical trial database; renewed requirements for conducting trials to generate information on the use of products in pediatric patients; and penalties, for such acts as false or misleading consumer drug advertising. Other proposals have been made to impose additional requirements on drug approvals, further expand post-approval requirements, and restrict sales and promotional activities. Requirements have also been imposed in some states, and proposed in other states, requiring us to provide paper or electronic pedigree information for the drugs that we distribute to help establish their authenticity and to track their movement from the manufacturer through the chain of distribution. These federal and state requirements, and additional requirements that have been proposed and might be adopted, may make it more difficult or burdensome for us to obtain new or expanded approvals for our products, may be more restrictive or come with onerous post-approval or other requirements, may hinder our ability to commercialize approved products successfully, and may harm our business. Delays and uncertainties in clinical trials or the government approval process for new products could result in lost market opportunities and hamper our ability to recoup costs associated with product development. FDA approval is generally required before a prescription drug can be marketed in the United States. For innovative, or non-generic, new drugs, an FDA-approved NDA is required before the drug may be marketed in the United States. The NDA must contain data to demonstrate that the drug is safe and effective for its intended uses, and that it will be manufactured to appropriate quality standards. Products marketed outside the United States are also subject to government regulation, which may be equally or more demanding. The clinical trials required to obtain regulatory approvals can be complex and expensive, and their outcomes are uncertain. Positive results from pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials do not ensure positive results in later clinical trials that form the basis of an application for regulatory approval. Even where clinical trials are completed successfully, the FDA or other regulatory authorities may determine that a product does not present an acceptable risk-benefit profile, and may not approve an NDA or its foreign equivalent or may only approve an NDA or its foreign equivalent with significant restrictions or conditions. The drug development and approval process can be time-consuming and expensive without assurance that the data will be adequate to justify approval of proposed new products. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for our products, we will not be able to commercialize our products and recoup our R&D costs. Furthermore, even if we were to obtain regulatory approvals, the terms of any product approval, including labeling, may be more restrictive than desired and could affect the marketability of our products, and the approvals may be contingent upon burdensome post-approval study commitments. If we are unable to obtain timely product approvals on commercially viable terms, our profitability and business could suffer. 37 Table of Contents The perceived health risks of our products may affect their acceptability and commercial success. If perceived health risks arise with respect to any of our products or those of our competitors, it could have an adverse effect on our ability to successfully market our products. For example, studies during the last decade have analyzed the health risks of estrogen therapies (such as our ESTRACE Cream, ESTRACE Tablets, FEMRING and FEMTRACE products) and estrogen-progestogen therapy products (such as FEMHRT), and as a result, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists has recommended that consumers use these products in the lowest possible dose for the shortest possible duration. We believe the publicity surrounding some of these studies resulted in a significant industry-wide decrease in the number of prescriptions being written for estrogen therapy and estrogen-progestogen therapy products, including our HT products. In addition, case reports in scientific literature have described certain side effects that developed in patients subsequent to alleged use of bisphosphonate medications. Since 2003, there have been case reports of adverse events involving patients who developed osteonecrosis of the jaw (“ONJ”) subsequent to alleged use of bisphosphonates. The majority of these case reports involved multiple myeloma patients who used high doses of intravenous bisphosphonates as part of their cancer therapy. In 2005, the FDA requested that all manufacturers of bisphosphonate medications, such as our bisphosphonate prescription product ACTONEL, which is approved for various osteoporosis indications, include language in their labeling regarding the reports of ONJ. In June 2008, the FDA requested information from all bisphosphonate manufacturers regarding any adverse event reports of atypical femoral fractures. The large majority of the published case reports of atypical femoral fractures have been associated with alendronate, which is marketed for osteoporosis indications by Merck as Fosamax®. In October 2010, the FDA issued a drug safety communication requiring that all manufacturers of bisphosphonate medications approved for osteoporosis indications include language in their labeling regarding the reports of atypical femoral fractures in patients taking these medications. Health Canada has since required similar class labeling in Canada on all bisphosphonate medications. The labeling of our ACTONEL and ATELVIA bisphosphonate products contain language regarding ONJ and atypical femoral fractures. In September 2011, an FDA Advisory Committee was convened to discuss the benefits and risks of long-term bisphosphonate use for osteoporosis indications in light of the potential safety concerns of ONJ and atypical femoral fractures. The Advisory Committee recommended that the labels for bisphosphonate drugs further clarify the duration of use to treat osteoporosis in an effort to minimize safety concerns regarding ONJ and atypical femoral fractures that may be associated with long-term use. Revised labeling addressing the duration of use has not yet been approved by the FDA. The ultimate effect of these studies, and any further changes in labeling for our products, may further adversely affect the acceptability of our products by patients, the willingness of physicians to prescribe our products for their patients and/or the duration of their therapy. Product liability claims and product recalls could harm our business. The development, manufacture, testing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products entail significant risk of product liability claims or recalls. Our products are, in the substantial majority of cases, designed to affect important bodily functions and processes. Unforeseen side-effects caused by, or manufacturing defects inherent in, the products sold by us could result in exacerbation of a patient’s condition, further deterioration of the patient’s condition or even death. The occurrence of such an event could result in product liability claims and/or the recall of one or more of our products. Claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief for themselves or, in certain jurisdictions, by groups seeking to represent a class. For example, approximately 721 product liability suits, including some with multiple plaintiffs, have been filed against, or tendered pursuant to acquisition agreements to, us in connection with the HT products FEMHRT, ESTRACE Tablets, ESTRACE Cream and medroxyprogesterone acetate. The lawsuits were likely triggered by the July 2002 and March 2004 announcements by the National Institute of Health (“NIH”) of the terminations of two large-scale randomized controlled clinical trials, which were part of the Women’s Health Initiative (“WHI”), examining the long-term effect of HT on the prevention of coronary heart disease and osteoporotic fractures, and 38 Table of Contents any associated risk for breast cancer in postmenopausal women. In the case of the trial terminated in 2002, which examined combined estrogen and progestogen therapy (the “E&P Arm of the WHI Study”), the safety monitoring board determined that the risks of long-term estrogen and progestogen therapy exceeded the benefits, when compared to a placebo. WHI investigators found that combined estrogen and progestogen therapy did not prevent heart disease in the study subjects and, despite a decrease in the incidence of hip fracture and colorectal cancer, there was an increased risk of invasive breast cancer, coronary heart disease, stroke, blood clots and dementia. In the trial terminated in 2004, which examined estrogen therapy, the trial was ended one year early because the NIH did not believe that the results were likely to change in the time remaining in the trial and that the increased risk of stroke could not be justified by the additional data that could be collected in the remaining time. As in the E&P Arm of the WHI Study, WHI investigators again found that estrogen only therapy did not prevent heart disease and, although study subjects experienced fewer hip fractures and no increase in the incidence of breast cancer compared to subjects randomized to placebo, there was an increased incidence of stroke and blood clots in the legs. The estrogen used in the WHI Study was conjugated equine estrogen and the progestin was medroxyprogesterone acetate, the compounds found in Premarin® and Prempro®, products marketed by Wyeth (now Pfizer). See “Note 16” to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Further, we may be liable for product liability, warranty or similar claims in relation to our ACTONEL bisphosphonate products. One such set of claims relates to litigation involving ACTONEL, which we acquired in October 2009 in the PGP Acquisition. Since 2003, there have been case reports in scientific literature of adverse events involving patients who developed ONJ subsequent to alleged use of bisphosphonate medications. Following the publication of these reports, several product liability lawsuits were filed against P&G and its partner under the Collaboration Agreement, Sanofi, regarding ACTONEL. These cases primarily alleged that ACTONEL caused the plaintiffs to suffer ONJ, although a few cases alleged atypical femoral fractures, both alone and in conjunction with ONJ claims. In 2010, following case reports of patients who developed atypical femoral fractures after alleged use of bisphosphonate medications, the FDA issued a drug safety communication regarding such reports. Subsequent to the issuance of the FDA’s communication, a number of our more recent product liability claims have alleged only atypical femoral fractures. We are a defendant in approximately 139 cases and a potential defendant with respect to approximately 176 unfiled claims involving a total of approximately 323 plaintiffs and potential plaintiffs arising out of the claimants’ alleged ingestion of ACTONEL. The 176 unfiled claims involve potential plaintiffs that have agreed, pursuant to a tolling agreement, to postpone the filing of their claims in exchange for our agreement to suspend the statutes of limitations relating to their potential claims. In addition, we are also aware of four purported product liability class actions brought against us in provincial courts in Canada alleging, among other things, that ACTONEL caused the plaintiffs and the proposed class members who ingested ACTONEL to suffer atypical fractures or other side effects. Generally, the plaintiffs allege that ACTONEL increases the risk of ONJ and/or atypical femoral fractures and that these risks were not included in the product’s warnings during the relevant time periods. Under the Collaboration Agreement, Sanofi has agreed to indemnify us, subject to certain limitations, for 50% of the losses from any product liability claims in Canada relating to ACTONEL and for 50% of the losses from any product liability claims in the U.S. and Puerto Rico relating to ACTONEL brought prior to April 1, 2010, which would include approximately 90 claims relating to ONJ and other alleged injuries that were pending as of March 31, 2010 and not subsequently dismissed. Pursuant to the April 2010 amendment to the Collaboration Agreement, we are fully responsible for any product liability claims in the U.S. and Puerto Rico relating to ACTONEL brought on or after April 1, 2010. Our agreement with P&G provides that P&G will indemnify us, subject to certain limits, for 50% of the losses from any product liability claims relating to PGP products that were pending as of the closing date of the PGP Acquisition, including approximately 88 claims relating to ONJ and other alleged injuries pending as of October 30, 2009 and not subsequently dismissed. See “Note 16” to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Product liability insurance coverage is expensive, can be difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. Our product liability insurance may not cover all liabilities we may incur in connection with the development, manufacture or sale of our products. In addition, we may not continue to be able to obtain insurance on satisfactory terms or in adequate amounts. 39 Table of Contents We currently maintain product liability insurance coverage for claims between $25 million and $170 million, subject to certain exclusions, and are otherwise self-insured. Our insurance may not apply to, among other things, damages or defense costs related to the above mentioned HT or ACTONEL-related claims, including any claim arising out of HT or ACTONEL products with labeling that does not conform completely to FDA approved labeling. Successful claims brought against us in connection with our HT product liability litigation, the ACTONEL-related litigation, or other matters that are either not covered by, or are in excess of, available insurance coverage could subject us to significant liabilities and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Such claims could also harm our reputation and the reputation of our products, thereby adversely affecting our ability to market our products successfully. In addition, irrespective of the outcome of product liability claims, defending a lawsuit with respect to such claims could be costly and significantly divert management’s attention from operating our business. Furthermore, we could be rendered insolvent if we do not have sufficient financial resources to satisfy any liability resulting from such a claim or to fund the legal defense of such a claim. Product recalls may be issued at our discretion or at the discretion of certain of our suppliers, the FDA, other government agencies and other entities that have regulatory authority for pharmaceutical sales. From time to time, we have recalled some of our products; however, to date none of these recalls have been significant. Any recall of a significant product could materially adversely affect our business and profitability by rendering us unable to sell that product for some time. Changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Our future operating results, financial position or cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations such as (i) changes in the FDA or equivalent foreign approval processes that may cause delays in, or limit or prevent the approval of, new products, (ii) new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting product marketing, promotion or the healthcare field generally and (iii) new laws or judicial decisions affecting intellectual property rights. The loss of the services of members of our senior management team or scientific staff or the inability to attract and retain other highly qualified employees could impede our ability to meet our strategic objectives and adversely affect our business. Our success is dependent on attracting and retaining highly qualified scientific, sales and management staff, including our Chief Executive Officer, Roger Boissonneault. We face intense competition for personnel from other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. The loss of key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other highly qualified employees, may impede our ability to meet our strategic objectives. Pursuant to our business strategy, we intend to develop improvements to our existing products as well as new products. This strategy may require us to hire additional employees with expertise in areas that relate to product development. We cannot fully anticipate or predict the time and extent to which we will need to hire this type of specialized personnel. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel necessary to pursue our business strategy fully. In addition, if competition continues to intensify, then our cost of attracting and retaining employees may escalate. Sales of our products may be adversely affected by the consolidation among wholesale drug distributors and the growth of large retail drug store chains. The network through which we sell our products has undergone significant consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions among wholesale distributors and the growth of large retail drugstore chains. As a result, a small number of large wholesale distributors control a significant share of the market, and the number of independent drug stores and small drugstore chains has decreased. Three large wholesale distributors accounted for an aggregate of 60% of our total revenues during the year ended December 31, 2011. If any of our major 40 Table of Contents distributors reduces its inventory levels or otherwise reduces purchases of our products, it could lead to periodic and unanticipated future reductions in revenues and cash flows. Consolidation of drug wholesalers and retailers, as well as any increased pricing pressure that those entities face from their customers, including the U.S. government, may increase pricing pressure and place other competitive pressures on drug manufacturers, including us. If we fail to comply with government regulations we could be subject to fines, sanctions and penalties that could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We are subject to regulation by national, regional, state and local agencies, including, in the United States, the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Department of Justice, the Federal Trade Commission, the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and other regulatory bodies. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act, the PPACA and other federal and state statutes and regulations in the United States, and equivalent laws and regulations in the European Union and Canada, govern to varying degrees, the research, development, manufacturing and commercial activities relating to prescription pharmaceutical products, including pre-clinical and clinical testing, approval, production, labeling, sale, distribution, import, export, post-market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information and promotion. Our sales, marketing, research and other scientific/educational programs must also comply with the anti-kickback and fraud and abuse provisions of the Social Security Act, the False Claims Act, the privacy provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, and similar state laws. Pricing and rebate programs must comply with the Medicaid drug rebate requirements of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 and the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992. If products are made available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule of the General Services Administration, additional laws and requirements apply, including the Federal Acquisition Regulation. Our business activities outside the United States are subject to regulation under the FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or securing any other improper advantage. All of our sales, marketing, research and other scientific/educational programs and activities are also potentially subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws. In addition, in recent years, the federal government and several states in the United States, including California, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Maine, Minnesota, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Mexico, Texas, Vermont and West Virginia, as well as the District of Columbia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports, make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials and other activities, and/or register their sales representatives, as well as to prohibit pharmacies and other healthcare entities from providing certain physician prescribing data to pharmaceutical companies for use in sales and marketing and prohibit certain other sales and marketing practices. Similar legislation is being considered in other states. Some of the statutes and regulations that govern our activities, such as federal and state anti-kickback and false claims laws, are broad in scope, and while exemptions and statutory safe harbors protecting certain common activities exist, they are often narrowly drawn. Certain other requirements, such as those under the PPACA’s “Sunshine Act” provisions, are new and their breadth and application are uncertain. While we manage our business activities to comply with these statutory provisions, due to their breadth, complexity and, in certain cases, uncertainty of application, it is possible that our activities could be subject to challenge by various government agencies. In particular, the FDA, the U.S. Department of Justice and other agencies have increased their enforcement activities with respect to the sales, marketing, research and similar activities of pharmaceutical companies in recent years, and many pharmaceutical companies have been subject to government investigations related to these practices. On February 22, 2012, we, along with certain non-executive employees in our sales organization, received subpoenas from the United States Attorney for the District of Massachusetts. The subpoena we received seeks information and documentation relating to a wide range of matters, including sales 41 Table of Contents and marketing activities, payments to people who are in a position to recommend drugs, medical education, consultancies, prior authorization processes, clinical trials, off-label use and employee training (including with respect to laws and regulations concerning off-label information and physician remuneration), in each case relating to all of our current key products. We intend to cooperate in responding to the subpoena, but cannot predict or determine the impact of this inquiry on our future financial condition or results of operations. See “Note 16” to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report for further discussion of our material ongoing governmental investigations. A determination that we are in violation of these and/or other government regulations and legal requirements may result in civil damages and penalties, criminal fines and prosecution, administrative remedies, the recall of products, the total or partial suspension of manufacture and/or distribution, seizure of products, injunctions, whistleblower lawsuits, failure to obtain approval of pending product applications, withdrawal of existing product approvals, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs and other sanctions. The U.S. Attorney’s investigation and any other threatened or actual government enforcement action could also generate adverse publicity and require that we devote substantial resources that could be used productively on other aspects of our business. Any of these types of investigations or enforcement actions could affect our ability to commercially distribute our products and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to successfully identify, develop, acquire, license or market new products as part of growing our business. In order to grow and achieve success in our business, we must continually identify, develop, acquire and license new products that we can ultimately market. Any future growth through new product acquisitions will be dependent upon the continued availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. Even if such opportunities are present, we may not be able to successfully identify products as candidates for potential acquisition, licensing, development or collaborative arrangements. Moreover, other companies, many of which may have substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, are competing with us for the right to acquire such products. If an acquisition candidate is identified, the third parties with whom we seek to cooperate may not select us as a potential partner or we may not be able to enter into arrangements on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Furthermore, we do not know if we will be able to finance the acquisition or integrate an acquired product into our existing operations. The negotiation and completion of potential acquisitions could result in a significant diversion of management’s time and resources and potentially disrupt our ongoing business. Future product acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in interest expense and amortization expense, as well as significant charges relating to integration costs. At each stage between developing or sourcing new products and marketing these products, there are a number of risks and uncertainties, and failure at any stage could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve commercial success with a product or to maintain or increase revenues, profits and cash flow. In addition, if we are unable to manage the challenges surrounding product development, acquisitions or the successful integration of acquisitions, it could have materially adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Prescription drug importation from Canada and other countries could increase pricing pressure on certain of our products and could decrease our revenues and profit margins. Under current U.S. law, U.S. individuals may import prescription drugs that are unavailable in the United States from Canada and other countries for their personal use under specified circumstances. Other imports, although illegal under U.S. law, also enter the country as a result of the resource constraints and enforcement priorities of the FDA and the U.S. Customs Service. The volume of prescription drug imports from Canada and 42 Table of Contents elsewhere could increase due to a variety of factors, including the further spread of Internet pharmacies and actions by certain state and local governments to facilitate Canadian and other imports. These imports may harm our business. We currently sell a number of products, including ACTONEL, ASACOL and FEMHRT, in Canada. In addition, ESTRACE Tablets are sold in Canada by third parties. Due to government price regulation in Canada and other countries, these products are generally sold in Canada and other countries for lower prices than in the United States. As a result, if these drugs are imported into the United States from Canada or elsewhere, we may experience reduced revenue or profit margins. We have a significant amount of intangible assets, which may never generate the returns we expect. Our identifiable intangible assets, which include trademarks and trade names, license agreements and patents acquired in acquisitions (including the PGP Acquisition), were $2,420 million at December 31, 2011, representing approximately 48% of our total assets of $5,030 million. Goodwill, which relates to the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of the businesses acquired, was $1,029 million at December 31, 2011, representing approximately 20% of our total assets. The majority of our intangible assets are owned by our Puerto Rican subsidiary. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition. Under Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification No. 350 “Intangibles—Goodwill and other”, goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment and definite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Future impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of the acquired business or product line, adverse market conditions and changes in the competitive landscape, the launch of a generic equivalent of any of our products, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of the acquired business or product line, changes in accounting rules and regulations, and a variety of other circumstances. The amount of any impairment is recorded as a charge to the statement of operations. We may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of intangible assets may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, in connection with our annual review of intangible assets during the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $163 million relating to our OVCON / FEMCON FE product family. If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program or other governmental pricing programs, we could be subject to additional reimbursements, penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the U.S., we participate in the federal Medicaid rebate program established by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, as well as several state supplemental rebate programs. Under the Medicaid rebate program, we pay a rebate to each state Medicaid program for our products that are reimbursed by those programs. The minimum amount of the rebate for each unit of product is set by law as 23.1% of AMP of that product, or if it is greater, the difference between AMP and the best price available from us to any customer. The rebate amount also includes an inflation adjustment, if necessary. Federal law requires that any company that participates in the Medicaid rebate program extend comparable discounts to qualified purchasers under the Public Health Services (“PHS”) pharmaceutical pricing program. The PHS pricing program extends discounts comparable to the Medicaid rebates to a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the PHS, as well as hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of economically disadvantaged patients. Under the Veterans Health Care Act (“VHCA”), manufacturers are required to offer certain drugs and biologics at a discount to a number of federal agencies including the Veterans’ Administration (“VA”), the 43 Table of Contents Department of Defense, and the Public Health Service in order to participate in other federal funding programs including Medicare and Medicaid. Through contractual agreements with the VA implementing the requirements of the VHCA, we must offer certain products on the VA Federal Supply Schedule and through other contract vehicles at prices that are equal to or lower than the Federal Ceiling Price, which is a price determined through the use of a statutory formula that provides for a discount off the average price to wholesalers. In addition, legislative changes require that similarly discounted prices be offered for certain Department of Defense purchases for its TRICARE program via a rebate system. As a manufacturer of different types of drug products, including products that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services treats as innovators (usually branded products) and noninnovators (usually generic products), rebate and pricing calculations are complex and vary among products and programs. For example, the Medicaid rebate amount is computed each quarter based on our submission to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services of our current AMP and best price for each of our products, while the Federal Ceiling Price is calculated annually by the VA based on quarterly and annual sales submissions. The terms of our participation in the Medicaid program impose an obligation to correct the prices reported in previous quarters, as may be necessary. Any such corrections could result in an overage or underage in our rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the direction of the correction. In addition to retroactive rebates (and interest, if any), if we are found to have knowingly submitted false information to the government, the statute provides for civil monetary penalties in amounts that could be material. Similar risks and obligations apply to the VHCA program. In addition to being complex, calculations of rebates and pricing in the U.S., Canada and many of the European member states in which we sell our products are also, in certain respects, subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. Government and regulatory agencies are increasingly scrutinizing the pricing and rebates reported by pharmaceutical companies, and if they disagree with our calculations, we may be subject to investigations, lawsuits or other actions that may result in additional payments by us. Finally, governmental agencies may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. Adverse outcomes in our outstanding litigation matters, or in new litigation matters that arise in the future, could negatively affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our financial condition could be negatively affected by unfavorable results in our outstanding litigation matters, including those described in “Note 16” to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report, or in lawsuits that may be initiated in the future. Our outstanding litigation matters include intellectual property litigation, product liability litigation, employment litigation, such as unfair dismissal and federal and state fair labor and minimum wage law suits, and litigation relating to rebates and other pricing matters, any of which, if adversely decided, could negatively affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our indebtedness. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2011, we had total indebtedness of $3,863 million. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness, combined with our leases and other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have other important consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us and certain of our direct and indirect subsidiaries to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt 44 Table of Contents instruments, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness; • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; • require us or our subsidiaries to dedicate a substantial portion of our or their cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes. Any of the above listed factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our interest expense could increase if interest rates increase because debt under our New Senior Secured Credit Facilities bears interest at our option at adjusted LIBOR (subject to a floor rate in most cases) plus an applicable margin or ABR plus an applicable margin. If we do not have sufficient earnings to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. In addition, the agreements governing our indebtedness contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our subsidiaries’ ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests and require us to maintain specified financial ratios. A failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our debt. Current global economic conditions could negatively affect our business and operating results. Our business may be adversely affected by global economic conditions. A prolonged economic downturn may decrease the prices that third-party payors, such as managed care organizations and government bodies and agencies, are willing or able to pay for our products and/or lead to the implementation of other cost containment measures that could adversely affect our revenues. For example, challenging fiscal conditions in many European countries have resulted in austerity measures aimed at, among other things, reducing the prices that state-run healthcare schemes pay for drugs. In addition, as a result of an economic downturn, individuals may experience reductions in healthcare coverage due to job losses or cutbacks in benefits provided by employers under group health plans. This could, in turn, lead to changes in patient behavior that negatively impact sales of our products, including delaying or foregoing treatment. Also, if any of the third parties that we rely on for certain aspects of our business, including our suppliers, wholesalers and our collaboration partners, experience financial difficulties as a result of any economic downturn or continued uncertainty in global economic conditions, it could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Risks Relating to Our Ordinary Shares Future sales of our shares could depress the market price of our ordinary shares. Sales of a substantial number of our ordinary shares, in the public market or otherwise, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. As of December 31, 2011, we had a total of approximately 250.2 million of our ordinary shares outstanding. In November 2009, certain of our shareholders sold 23.0 million ordinary shares in the 2009 Secondary Offering. The selling shareholders included the Sponsors, certain other institutional shareholders and members of 45 Table of Contents our senior management. During 2010, one of our Sponsors divested (either by sale or via a distribution to its investors) the remainder of its holdings of our shares, or approximately 33.8 million ordinary shares in the aggregate. In March 2011, certain of our shareholders sold an aggregate of approximately 26.5 million ordinary shares in the 2011 Secondary Offering. The selling shareholders included the remaining Sponsors and members of our senior management. As of December 31, 2011, our remaining Sponsors collectively beneficially owned approximately 31% of our outstanding ordinary shares. All of the ordinary shares held by them were issued and sold by us in private transactions and are eligible for public sale if registered under the Securities Act or sold in accordance with Rule 144 thereunder, subject to volume and manner of sale limits and contractual restrictions. The remaining Sponsors have the right, subject to certain conditions, to cause us to register the ordinary shares that they currently own, and members of our senior management, who own substantially all of the remaining outstanding ordinary shares that are not freely tradable, have “piggyback” registration rights in respect of any such Sponsor-requested registration. In addition, our articles of association permit the issuance of up to approximately 249.8 million additional ordinary shares. Thus, we have the ability to issue substantial amounts of ordinary shares in the future, which would dilute the percentage ownership held by current shareholders. In addition, we have also filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register up to approximately 17.3 million of our ordinary shares issued pursuant to awards granted under the Warner Chilcott Equity Incentive Plan (the “Plan”), plus an indeterminate number of additional shares to prevent dilution resulting from stock splits, stock dividends such as the Special Dividend, or similar transactions. As restricted share awards and their equivalents under the Plan are granted and vest and option awards under the Plan are granted, vest and are exercised, subject to certain limitations under the management shareholders agreement, the shares vesting and/or issued on exercise, as applicable, generally will be available for sale in the open market by holders who are not our affiliates and, subject to the volume and other applicable limitations of Rule 144, by holders who are our affiliates. As of December 31, 2011, options to purchase approximately 6.8 million of our ordinary shares were outstanding (of which options to acquire approximately 4.1 million ordinary shares were vested). In addition, as of December 31, 2011, approximately 6.1 million restricted shares and their equivalents were granted under the Plan (of which approximately 4.0 million shares were vested). The market price of our ordinary shares may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline significantly. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations in response to general economic and market conditions and their effect on various industries. This market volatility could cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly and without regard to our operating performance. In addition, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline significantly if our future operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of public market analysts and investors. Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on our ordinary shares’ market price include: • actual or expected fluctuations in our operating results; • actual or expected changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; • conditions in our industry generally; • conditions in the financial markets in general or changes in general economic conditions; • our inability to raise additional capital; • changes in market prices for our products; and • changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our ordinary shares, other comparable companies or our industry generally. 46 Table of Contents Provisions of our articles of association could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party. Our articles of association could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares. For example, our articles of association: • permit our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred shares with rights and preferences designated by our board; • impose advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at shareholder meetings; • stagger the terms of our board of directors into three classes; and • require the approval of a supermajority of the voting power of the shares of our share capital entitled to vote generally in the election of directors for shareholders to amend or repeal our articles of association. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our ordinary shares at a premium over the market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our ordinary shares. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board. Because our remaining Sponsors own a substantial portion of our outstanding ordinary shares, if they act collectively, the influence of our public shareholders over significant corporate actions may be limited, and conflicts of interest between our remaining Sponsors and us or you could arise in the future. As of December 31, 2011, our remaining Sponsors collectively beneficially owned approximately 31% our outstanding ordinary shares. As a result, if such Sponsors act collectively, they could exercise substantial influence over the composition of our board of directors and the vote of our ordinary shares. If this were to occur, our remaining Sponsors could have a significant amount of control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction and could make it very difficult for us to enter into any transaction that requires the approval of our stockholders even if other equity holders believe that any such transactions are in their own best interests. If our remaining Sponsors act collectively, they could also exercise substantial control over our decision to make acquisitions that increase our indebtedness or sell revenue-generating assets. Additionally, our remaining Sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Our remaining Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as our remaining Sponsors continue to own a significant amount of our equity, if they exercise their shareholder rights collectively, they would be able to significantly influence our decisions. We are incorporated in Ireland, and Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to, or otherwise adversely affect, our shareholders. Our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Irish Companies Acts (the “Companies Act”). The Companies Act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. For example, under Irish law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. As a result, shareholders of Irish companies do not have the right to bring an action against the directors or officers of a company, except in limited circumstances. In addition, depending on the circumstances, you may be subject to different or additional tax consequences under Irish law as a result of your acquisition, ownership and/or disposition of our ordinary shares, including, but not limited to, Irish stamp duty, dividend withholding tax and capital acquisitions tax. 47 Table of Contents We are an Irish company and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us. We are incorporated in Ireland and a substantial portion of our assets are located in jurisdictions outside the United States. It may therefore be difficult for investors to effect service of process against us or to enforce against us judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. There is no treaty between Ireland and the United States providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. The following requirements must be met before the foreign judgment will be deemed to be enforceable in Ireland: • the judgment must be for a definite sum; • the judgment must be final and conclusive; and • the judgment must be provided by a court of competent jurisdiction. An Irish court will also exercise its right to refuse judgment if the foreign judgment was obtained by fraud, if the judgment violated Irish public policy, if the judgment is in breach of natural justice or if it is irreconcilable with an earlier judgment. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 