ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Disruptions in the supply of copper and other raw materials used in our products could cause us to be unable to meet customer demand, which could result in the loss of customers and net sales. Copper is the primary raw material that we use to manufacture our products. Other significant raw materials that we use are plastics, such as polyethylene and polyvinyl chloride, aluminum, linerboard and wood reels. There are a limited number of domestic and foreign suppliers of copper and these other raw materials. We typically have supplier agreements with terms of one to two years for our raw material needs that do not require us to purchase a minimum amount of these raw materials. If we are unable to maintain good relations with our suppliers or if there are any business interruptions at our suppliers, we may not have access to a sufficient supply of raw materials. If we lose one or more key suppliers and are unable to locate an alternative supply, we may not be able to meet customer demand, which could result in the loss of customers and net sales. Fluctuations in the price of copper and other raw materials, as well as fuel and energy, and increases in freight costs could increase our cost of goods sold and reduce our profitability. The prices of copper and our other significant raw materials, as well as fuel and energy costs, are subject to considerable volatility. Our agreements with our suppliers generally require us to pay market price for raw materials at the time of purchase. As a result, volatility in these prices can result in significant fluctuations in our cost of goods sold. If the cost of raw materials increases and we are unable to increase the prices of our products, or offset those cost increases with cost savings in other parts of our business, our profitability would be reduced. We generally do not engage in activities to hedge the price of our raw materials. In addition, we pay the freight costs on certain customer orders. In the event that freight costs increase substantially, due to fuel surcharges or otherwise, our profitability would decline. The markets for our products are highly competitive, and our inability to compete with other manufacturers in the wire and cable industry could harm our net sales and profitability. The markets for wire and cable products are highly competitive. We compete with at least one major competitor with respect to each of our business lines. Many of our products are made to industry specifications and may be considered fungible with our competitors’ products. Accordingly, we are subject to competition in many of our markets primarily on the basis of price. We must also be competitive in terms of quality, availability, payment terms and customer service. We are facing 10 Table of Contents increased competition from products manufactured in foreign countries that in many cases are comparable in terms of quality but are offered at lower prices. For example, in 2003 we experienced a decline in net sales due principally to the loss of several customers who opted for foreign sourcing, where labor costs are lower. Unless we can produce our products at competitive prices or purchase comparable products from foreign sources on favorable terms, we may experience a decrease in our net sales and profitability. Some of our competitors have greater resources, financial and otherwise, than we do and may be better positioned to invest in manufacturing and supply chain efficiencies and product development. We may not be able to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with new competitors. We face pricing pressure in each of our markets, and our inability to continue to achieve operating efficiency and productivity improvements in response to pricing pressure may result in lower margins. We face pricing pressure in each of our markets as a result of significant competition and industry over-capacity, and price levels for many of our products (after excluding price adjustments related to the increased cost of copper) have declined over the past few years. We expect pricing pressure to continue for the foreseeable future. A component of our business strategy is to continue to achieve operating efficiencies and productivity improvements with a focus on lowering purchasing, manufacturing and distribution costs. We may not be successful in lowering our costs. In the event we are unable to lower these costs in response to pricing pressure, we may experience lower margins and decreased profitability. We are dependent upon a number of key customers. If they were to cease purchasing our products, our net sales and profitability would likely decline. We are dependent upon a number of key customers, although none of our customers accounted for more than 10% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2005. Our customers can cease buying our products at any time. They can also sell products that compete with our products. The loss of one or more key customers, or a significant decrease in the volume of products they purchase from us, could result in a drop in our net sales and a decline in our profitability. In addition, a disruption or a downturn in the business of one or more key customers could reduce our sales and could reduce our liquidity if we were unable to collect amounts they owe us. Growth through acquisitions is a significant part of our strategy and we may not be able to successfully identify, finance or integrate acquisitions in order to grow our business. Growth through acquisitions has been, and is expected to continue to be, a significant part of our strategy. We regularly evaluate possible acquisition candidates. We may not be successful in identifying, financing and closing acquisitions on favorable terms. Potential acquisitions may require us to obtain additional financing, and such financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Further, we may not be successful in integrating any such acquisitions that are completed. Integration of any such acquisitions may require substantial management, financial and other resources and may pose risks with respect to production, customer service and market share of existing operations. In addition, we may acquire businesses that are subject to technological or competitive risks, and we may not be able to realize the benefits expected from such acquisitions. If we are unable to retain senior management and key employees, we may experience operating inefficiencies and increased costs, resulting in diminished profitability. Our success has been largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management and key employees. The loss of any of our senior management or other key employees could result in operation inefficiencies and increased costs. We may be unable to find qualified replacements for these individuals if their services were no longer available, and if we do identify replacements, the integration of those replacements may be disruptive to our business. 11 Table of Contents Our credit facility provides that a change of control under the credit facility will occur if either Mr. Yetman ceases to be our Chief Executive Officer or Mr. Burger ceases to be our Chief Financial Officer and in each case a successor acceptable to the agent under the credit facility is not appointed within 180 days. A change of control would constitute an event of default under the credit facility, entitling the lenders to declare all obligations due and payable. Advancing technologies, such as fiber optic and wireless technologies, may make some of our products less competitive and reduce our net sales. Technological developments could cause our net sales to decline. For example, a significant decrease in the cost and complexity of installation of fiber optic systems or a significant increase in the cost of copper-based systems could make fiber optic systems superior on a price performance basis to copper systems and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Also, advancing wireless technologies, as they relate to network and communication systems, may reduce the demand for our products by reducing the need for premises wiring. Some of our employees belong to a labor union and certain actions by such employees, such as strikes or work stoppages, could disrupt our operations or cause us to incur costs. As of December 31, 2005, we employed 1,007 persons, approximately 28% of whom are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, which expires on December 21, 2006. If unionized employees were to engage in a concerted strike or other work stoppage, if other employees were to become unionized, or if we are unable to negotiate a new collective bargaining agreement when the current one expires, we could experience a disruption of operations, higher labor costs or both. A strike or other disruption of operations or work stoppage could reduce our ability to manufacture quality products for our customers in a timely manner. We may be unable to raise additional capital to meet capital expenditure needs if our operations do not generate sufficient funds to do so. Our business is expected to have continuing capital expenditure needs. If our operations do not generate sufficient funds to meet our capital expenditure needs for the foreseeable future, we may not be able to gain access to additional capital, if needed, particularly in view of competitive factors and industry conditions. In addition, recent increases in the cost of copper have increased our working capital requirements. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, or unable to obtain additional capital on favorable terms, our liquidity may be diminished and we may be unable to effectively operate our business. Our principal shareholders could exercise their influence over us to your detriment. Two of the non-executive members of our Board of Directors, David Bistricer and Nachum Stein, and their affiliates own a substantial majority of our common stock. Mr. Bistricer beneficially owns 9,021 shares, or 22.1%, and Mr. Stein beneficially owns 18,042 shares, or 44.2%, of our outstanding common stock. By virtue of their stock ownership, they can determine the outcome of matters required to be submitted to the shareholders for approval, including the election of our directors and the approval of mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. The interests of Messrs. Bistricer and Stein may differ from the interests of our debt holders, and accordingly, they may take actions that may not be in the debt holders’ interest. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the nature of their interests as equity owners might conflict with the interests of our debt holders. In addition, equity owners may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to our debt holders. 12 Table of Contents Disruption in the importation of our raw materials and products and the risks associated with international operations could cause our operating results to decline. We source certain raw materials and products from outside the United States. Foreign material purchases expose us to a number of risks, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs, possible difficulties in enforcing agreements, exchange rate fluctuations, difficulties in obtaining import licenses, economic or political instability, embargoes, exchange controls or the adoption of other restrictions on foreign trade. Although currently we do not manufacture any products outside of the United States, to the extent we decide to establish foreign manufacturing facilities, our non-U.S. manufacturing sales would be subject to similar risks. Further, imports of raw materials and products are subject to unanticipated transportation delays that affect international commerce. We have significant indebtedness outstanding and may be able to incur additional indebtedness that could negatively affect our business and prevent us from satisfying our obligations under our senior notes and our other indebtedness. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. On December 31, 2005, we had approximately $169.3 million of indebtedness. We will be required to make payments of principal and interest on our currently existing indebtedness of $0.9 million in the twelve months ending December 31, 2006, $1.9 million in the twenty-four months ending December 31, 2008, $46.4 million in the twenty-four months ending December 31, 2010 and $120.1 million thereafter. Our high level of indebtedness could have important consequences to our debt holders, including the following: • it may be difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our senior notes, our credit facility and our other indebtedness; • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, potential acquisition opportunities or general corporate or other purposes may be impaired; • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, reducing the funds available to us for other purposes; • it may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged; and • we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, may be limited in our ability to respond to competitive pressures and may have reduced flexibility in responding to changing business, regulatory and economic conditions. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend upon, among other things, our future operating performance and our ability to refinance indebtedness when necessary. Each of these factors is, to a large extent, dependent on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. If, in the future, we cannot generate sufficient cash from operations to make scheduled payments on our senior notes or to meet our other obligations, we will need to refinance our existing debt, obtain additional financing or sell assets. Our business may not be able to generate cash flow or we may not be able to obtain funding sufficient to satisfy our debt service requirements. If we fail to satisfy our obligations under our senior secured indebtedness, we will be in default and the senior secured lenders would have the right to foreclose on our assets securing the senior secured indebtedness. In that event, we would no longer have the assets necessary to operate our business as a 13 Table of Contents going concern and we would likely be unable to generate income with which to repay our other indebtedness, including our senior notes. In addition, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, which may increase the risks described above. Although the terms governing our credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. For example, we may borrow additional amounts to fund our capital expenditures and working capital needs or to finance future acquisitions. The incurrence of additional indebtedness could make it more likely that we will experience some or all of the risks associated with substantial indebtedness. The holders of our senior notes, which are unsecured and effectively subordinated to all of our and our subsidiary guarantors’ secured indebtedness, would in all likelihood recover ratably less than the lenders of the secured indebtedness in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or dissolution. Our senior notes are not secured. Our senior notes are effectively subordinated to our and our subsidiaries’ secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing that indebtedness. The holders of our senior notes would in all likelihood recover ratably less than the lenders of our and our subsidiaries’ secured indebtedness in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or dissolution. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $49.3 million of secured indebtedness relating to our credit facility, capital lease obligations and a mortgage on one of our manufacturing facilities. As limited by the borrowing base, we could have borrowed up to an additional $26.4 million of secured indebtedness under our credit facility. In addition, our senior notes are structurally subordinated to all of the liabilities and other obligations of any subsidiaries that do not guarantee our senior notes. In the event of a bankruptcy, liquidation or dissolution of any non-guarantor subsidiaries, holders of their indebtedness, their trade creditors and holders of their preferred equity will generally be entitled to payment on their claims from assets of those subsidiaries before any assets are made available for distribution to us. Restrictions in the indenture governing our senior notes and in our other outstanding debt instruments could limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. The failure to comply with these restrictions could result in the acceleration of the related debt and we may not have sufficient funds to make the accelerated payments. The indenture governing our senior notes contains financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. These covenants limit our ability, among other things, to: • incur additional indebtedness; • make restricted payments; • create liens; • pay dividends; • consolidate, merge or sell substantially all of our assets; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and • enter into transactions with affiliates. 14 Table of Contents These covenants are subject to important exceptions and qualifications, which are included in the indenture governing our senior notes. In addition, our credit facility contains financial and other restrictive covenants, which also are subject to important exceptions and qualifications. We may not be able to comply in the future with these covenants as a result of events beyond our control, such as prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. Our failure to comply with the obligations contained in the indenture or credit facility could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, would permit acceleration of the related debt and acceleration of debt under other instruments that may contain cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions. We are not certain whether we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund capital expenditures and other obligations will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which is dependent on our successful financial and operating performance and on our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We may not have the ability to repurchase our senior notes upon a change of control as required by the indenture governing our senior notes. Upon the occurrence of specific kinds of change of control events, we will be required to offer to repurchase all of our outstanding senior notes at 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase. We may not have sufficient funds to make the required repurchase in cash at such time or the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms. In addition, our ability to repurchase our senior notes in cash may be limited by law or the terms of other agreements relating to our debt outstanding at the time. If we fail to repurchase any of our senior notes submitted in a change of control offer, it would constitute an event of default under the indenture, which could, in turn, constitute an event of default under our other debt instruments, even if the change of control itself would not cause a default. Federal and state statutes allow courts, under specific circumstances, to void the guarantees of our senior notes and require the holders of those notes to return payments received from the guarantors. The guarantees of our senior notes may be subject to review under U.S. federal bankruptcy law if a guarantor becomes subject to a bankruptcy proceeding or under state fraudulent transfer laws if the enforceability of the guarantees is contested by a creditor of a guarantor. In applying these laws, if a court were to find that at the time the guarantor issued the guarantee of our senior notes: • it issued the guarantee to delay, hinder or defraud present or future creditors; or • it received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for issuing the guarantee at the time it issued the guarantee, and it was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of issuing the guarantee, and the application of the proceeds, if any, of the guarantee; or • it was engaged, or about to engage, in a business or transaction for which its remaining unencumbered assets constituted unreasonably small capital to carry on its business; or • it intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay as they mature; or 15 Table of Contents • it was a defendant in an action for money damages, or had a judgment for money damages docketed against it if, in either case, after final judgment, the judgment is unsatisfied; then the court could void the obligations under the guarantee, subordinate the guarantee of our senior notes to that guarantor’s other debt or take other action detrimental to holders of those notes. The measures of insolvency for purposes of bankruptcy and fraudulent transfer laws vary depending upon the law of the jurisdiction that is being applied in any proceeding to determine whether a fraudulent transfer had occurred. Generally, however, a person would be considered insolvent if, at the time it incurred the debt: • the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the fair saleable value of all of its assets; • the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or • it could not pay its debts as they become due. A court would choose the standard to use to determine whether a guarantor was solvent at the relevant time. Regardless of the standard that the court uses, the issuance of the guarantees could be voided or the guarantees could be subordinated to the guarantors’ other debt. The guarantee could also be subject to the claim that, because the guarantee was incurred for the benefit of Coleman Cable, Inc., and only indirectly for the benefit of the guarantor, the obligations of the applicable guarantor were incurred for less than fair consideration. A court could thus void the obligations under the guarantee, subordinate the guarantee to the applicable guarantor’s other debt, or take other action detrimental to holders of our senior notes. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 