ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and prospects. Borden Chemical, Resolution Performance, Resolution Specialty and Bakelite have a limited history of working together as a single company. Should we fail to integrate the operations of Borden Chemical, Resolution Performance, Resolution Specialty and Bakelite and achieve cost savings, our results of operations and profitability would be negatively impacted. We may not be successful integrating Borden Chemical, Resolution Performance, Resolution Specialty and Bakelite, and the combined company may not perform as we expect or achieve the net cost savings we anticipate. A significant element of our business strategy is the improvement of our operating efficiencies and a reduction of our operating costs. Management is currently targeting $250 million in synergies from the Hexion Formation of which $125 million of cost savings have been specifically identified. We achieved cost savings of $20 million in 2005. We expect to incur one-time costs of $75 million in connection with implementing these synergies. A variety of factors could cause us not to achieve the benefits of the cost savings plan, or could result in harm to our business. For example, certain of our European operations utilize IT systems with limited systems support. In the event we are not able to integrate these systems with our more advanced IT systems, our ability to efficiently operate in certain European countries could be diminished. In addition, the impact of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita on our business, along with future hurricanes and natural disasters, may affect our ability to achieve our cost savings plan in the near term. Additional factors include: • delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to our cost savings plan; • higher than expected or unanticipated costs to implement the plan and to operate the business; • inadequate resources to implement the plan and to operate the business; • our inability to optimize manufacturing processes between the companies; • our inability to obtain lower raw material prices; • our inability to utilize new geographic distribution channels; • our inability to reduce corporate and administrative expenses; and • our inability to identify an additional $125 million of cost savings consistent with our synergy target. As a result, we may not achieve our expected cost savings in the time anticipated, or at all. In such case, our results of operations and profitability would be negatively impaired. The Hexion Formation may prove disruptive and could result in the combined business failing to meet our expectations. The continuing process of integrating the operations of Borden Chemical, Resolution Performance, Resolution Specialty and Bakelite may continue to require a disproportionate amount of resources and management attention. Our future operations and cash flows will depend largely upon our ability to operate Hexion efficiently, achieve the strategic operating objectives for our business and realize significant cost savings and synergies. Our management team may encounter unforeseen difficulties in managing the integration of our four businesses. In order to successfully combine and operate our businesses, our management team will need to 20 Table of Contents continue to focus on realizing anticipated synergies and cost savings on a timely basis while maintaining the efficiency of our operations. Any substantial diversion of management attention or difficulties in operating the combined business could affect our sales and ability to achieve operational, financial and strategic objectives. For example, we expect to devote substantial management attention in order to implement financial reporting and other systems that will permit us to utilize a shared service business model (for certain processes) along with a single company wide SAP® system. Our historical and pro forma financial information may not reflect what our actual results of operations and financial condition would have been had we been a combined company for the periods presented and thus these results may not be indicative of our future operating performance. The historical financial information included in this prospectus is constructed from the separate financial statements of Resolution Performance, Borden Chemical and Resolution Specialty for periods prior to the consummation of the Hexion Formation. In addition, Bakelite has historically prepared its financial statements in accordance with German GAAP, which differs in certain respects from US GAAP. The Bakelite financial statement presentation included in this prospectus has been converted from the local GAAP of Bakelite and its subsidiaries to US GAAP. The pro forma financial information presented in this prospectus is based in part on certain assumptions regarding the Hexion Formation that we believe are reasonable. Our assumptions may prove to be inaccurate over time. Accordingly, the historical and pro forma financial information included in this prospectus may not reflect what our results of operations and financial condition would have been had we been a combined entity during the periods presented, or what our results of operations and financial condition will be in the future. Our limited operating history and the challenge of integrating previously independent businesses make evaluating our business and our future financial prospects difficult. Our potential for future business success and operating profitability must be considered in light of the risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties typically encountered by recently organized or combined companies. Although EBITDA is derived from the financial statements (pro forma or historical, as the case may be) of Hexion, the calculation of Adjusted EBITDA contains a number of estimates and assumptions that may prove to be incorrect. For example, the synergies assume we can obtain improved raw materials pricing, the determination of legacy corporate expenses, net contains an estimate as to the cost of replacement services and business realignment expenses contains a number of assumptions as to excess costs. Although management of Hexion believes these estimates and assumptions are reasonable and correct and are consistent with the definition of Adjusted EBITDA in our indentures, investors should not place undue reliance upon Adjusted EBITDA as an indicator of current and future performance. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our existing or future indebtedness. We are a highly leveraged company. As of December 31, 2005, we had $2.4 billion of outstanding indebtedness. In fiscal 2006, our cash debt service is expected to be approximately $268 million (including $51 million of short term debt maturities) based on current interest rates, of which $146 million represents debt service on fixed-rate obligations. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt depends on a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our debt service and other obligations, and currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements may not be realized on schedule, or at all. If we are unable to meet our expenses and debt service obligations, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets or raise equity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, sell assets or raise equity on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could cause us to default on our obligations and impair our liquidity. 21 Table of Contents Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences for you, including the following: • it may limit our ability to borrow money or sell stock for our working capital, capital expenditures, dividend payments, debt service requirements, strategic initiatives or other purposes; • it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our operations or business; • it may increase the amount of our interest expense, because certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which, if interest rates increase, could result in higher interest expense; • we are more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; • it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business or the economy; • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the repayment of our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes; • it may restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, introducing new technologies or exploiting business opportunities; • it may make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our existing indebtedness; and • it may limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds or dispose of assets. Our variable-rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our annual debt service obligations to increase significantly. Certain of our indebtedness, including indebtedness under our floating rate notes and borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities, are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. See “Description of Certain Indebtedness.” If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same. Assuming the amount of variable rate indebtedness remains the same, an increase of 1% in the interest rates payable on our variable rate indebtedness would increase our fiscal 2006 estimated debt service requirements by approximately $8 million. Accordingly, an increase in interest rates from current levels could cause our annual debt-service obligations to increase significantly. Despite our substantial indebtedness we may still be able to incur significantly more debt. This could intensify the risks described above. The terms of the indentures governing our notes, our senior secured credit facilities and the instruments governing our other indebtedness and Series A Preferred Stock contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness. These restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Accordingly, we could incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. As of December 31, 2005, we had $221 million available for additional borrowing under our senior secured credit facilities, including the subfacility for letters of credit, and the covenants under our debt agreements would allow us to borrow a significant amount of additional indebtedness. The more we become leveraged, the more we, and in turn our securityholders, become exposed to the risks described above under “—Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our existing or future indebtedness.” 22 Table of Contents The terms of our senior secured credit facilities and our existing indebtedness may restrict our current and future operations. Our senior secured credit facilities and our existing indebtedness contain, and any future indebtedness we incur would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that will impose significant operating and financial restrictions on our ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional debt; • pay dividends and make other distributions to our shareholders; • create or incur certain liens; • make certain loans, acquisitions, capital expenditures or investments; • engage in sales of assets and subsidiary stock; • enter into sale/leaseback transactions; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • transfer all or substantially all of our assets or enter into merger or consolidation transactions; and • make capital expenditures. In addition, our senior secured credit facilities require us to maintain a maximum senior secured bank leverage ratio. As a result of these covenants and this ratio, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. While we are currently in compliance with all of the terms of our outstanding indebtedness, including the financial covenants contained therein, a downturn in our business could cause us to fail to comply with the financial or other covenants in our senior secured credit facilities. A failure to comply with the covenants contained in our senior secured credit facilities or our existing indebtedness could result in an event of default under the facilities or the existing agreements. In the event of any default under our senior secured credit facilities or our other indebtedness, the lenders thereunder: • will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us; • could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable; • require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings; or • prevent us from making payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. If the indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities or our other indebtedness were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. See “Description of Certain Indebtedness.” Demand for many of our products is cyclical and we may experience prolonged depressed market conditions for our products, which may decrease our net sales and operating margins. Many of our products are used in industries that are cyclical in nature, such as the new home construction, automotive, oil and gas, chemicals and electronics industries. We sell our products to manufacturers in those industries who incorporate them into their own products. Sales to the construction industry are driven by trends in commercial and residential construction, housing starts and trends in residential repair and remodeling. Consumer confidence, mortgage rates and income levels play a significant role in driving demand in the residential construction, repair and remodeling sector. A drop in consumer confidence or an increase in mortgage rates or unemployment could cause a slowdown in the construction industry, and in particular the residential construction, repair and remodeling industry. These and other similar adverse developments could cause a material decrease in our net sales and operating margins. 23 Table of Contents Downturns in one or more of the other businesses that use our products can adversely affect our net sales and operating margins. Many of our customers are in businesses that are cyclical in nature and sensitive to changes in general economic conditions. In 2002, sales of Borden Chemical’s oil field services products declined 29% as a result of reduced drilling activity. Demand for our products depends, in part, on general economic conditions, and a decline in economic conditions in the industries served by our customers has, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business. An economic downturn in one or more of the businesses or geographic regions in which we sell our products could cause a material decrease in our net sales and operating margins. We rely significantly on raw materials in the production of our products and fluctuations in costs would increase our operating expenses. Our manufacturing operations depend upon obtaining adequate supplies of our raw materials on a timely basis. The loss of a key source of supply or a delay in shipments could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, several of our feedstocks at various facilities are transported through a pipeline from one supplier. If we were unable to receive these feedstock through these pipeline arrangements, we may not be able to obtain them from other suppliers at competitive prices or in a timely manner. During the past three years, the prices of these materials have been volatile. We are exposed to price risks associated with these raw material purchases. The availability and prices of raw materials may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, new laws or regulations, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, changes in exchange rates, cost components of raw materials and worldwide price levels. In addition, we may be subject to increasing raw material prices and fuel surcharges due to hurricanes, such as Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005, and other natural disasters and the associated damage to our suppliers. In 2005, approximately $27 million of incremental expenses associated with Hurricanes Katrina and Rita negatively impacted our results. Our ability to manufacture products depends on our ability to obtain an adequate supply of raw materials in a timely manner. Furthermore, if the cost of raw materials increases significantly and we are unable to offset the increased costs with higher selling prices, our profitability will decline. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Although certain of our contracts include competitive price clauses that allow us to buy outside the contract if market pricing falls below contract pricing and other contracts have minimum-maximum monthly volume commitments that allow us to take advantage of spot pricing, we may not be able to purchase raw materials at market price. In addition, some of our customer contracts include selling price provisions that are indexed to publicly available indices for these commodity raw materials; however, we may not be able to immediately pass on raw material price increases to our customers, if at all. Due to differences in timing of the pricing mechanism trigger points between our sales and purchase contracts, there is often a “lead-lag” impact during which margins are negatively impacted for the short term in periods of rising raw material prices and positively impacted in periods of falling raw material prices. Raw material prices may not decrease from currently high levels or, if they do, we may not be able to capitalize on any such reductions in a timely manner, if at all. Rising energy costs have previously increased our operating expenses and reduced net income and may in the future continue to do so, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition. Natural gas is essential in our manufacturing processes, and its cost can vary widely and unpredictably. Our energy costs represented approximately 4% of our total cost of sales in 2005. Energy costs have risen significantly over the past several years due to the increase in the cost of oil and natural gas and the recent shortages of energy in various states, including those caused by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Our operating expenses increased in 2005 and will continue to increase if these costs continue to rise or do not return to historical levels. Rising energy costs may also increase our raw material costs. If we cannot pass these costs through to our customers, our profitability may decline. In addition, rising energy costs also negatively impact our customers and the demand for our products. These risks will be exacerbated if our customers or production facilities are in locations experiencing severe energy shortages. 24 Table of Contents Environmental obligations and liabilities could have a substantial negative impact on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. Our operations involve the use, handling, processing, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials and are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations at the national, state, local and international level. Such environmental laws and regulations include those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites and occupational health and safety. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs and capital expenditures in complying with these laws and regulations. In 2005, we incurred $18 million in capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations, and for other environmental improvements. In addition, violations of environmental laws or permits may result in restrictions being imposed on our operating activities or in our being subjected to substantial fines, penalties, criminal proceedings, third party property damage or personal injury claims or other costs. In addition, future developments or increasingly stringent regulation could require us to make additional unforeseen environmental expenditures. For example, the Louisville Metro Air Pollution control district has proposed new regulations that, if promulgated in their current form, could result in increased costs at our Louisville, Kentucky facility. In addition, potential air compliance issues at the Louisville facility could adversely affect our ability to achieve operational synergies in a timely fashion. Even if we fully comply with environmental laws, we are subject to liability associated with hazardous substances in soil, groundwater and elsewhere at a number of sites. These include sites that we formerly owned or operated, and sites where hazardous wastes and other substances from our current and former facilities and operations have been treated, stored or disposed of, as well as sites that we currently own or operate. Depending upon the circumstances, our liability may be joint and several, meaning that we may be held responsible for more than our proportionate share, or even all, of the liability involved. Environmental conditions at such sites can lead to claims against us for personal injury or wrongful death, property damages, and natural resource damage, as well as to claims and obligations for the investigation and cleanup of environmental conditions. The extent of any such liabilities can be difficult to predict. We have been notified that we are or may be responsible for environmental remediation at a number of sites in the United States, Europe and South America, and we are also undertaking a number of voluntary cleanups. We believe the most significant of these and the site that makes up approximately half of our remediation accrual is the site formerly owned by us in Geismar, Louisiana. As a result of former, current or future operations, there are likely to be additional environmental remediation or restoration liabilities or claims of personal injury by employees or members of the public due to exposure or alleged exposure to hazardous materials in connection with our operations, properties or products. We are aware of several sites, sold by us over 20 years ago, that may have significant site closure or remediation costs. Actual costs at these sites, as well as our share, if any, are unknown to us at this time. In addition, we have been served in two tort actions relating to one of these sites. If we fail to mount a successful defense against legal proceedings involving former sites, any significant finding of liability could have a negative impact on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. These environmental liabilities or obligations, or any that may arise or become known to us in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. Because we manufacture and use materials that are known to be hazardous, we are subject to comprehensive product and manufacturing regulations, for which compliance can be costly and time consuming. We produce hazardous chemicals that require care in handling and use and are subject to regulation by many U.S. and non-U.S. national, supra-national, state and local governmental authorities. In some circumstances, before we may sell some of our products these authorities must approve these products and our manufacturing processes and facilities. As our facilities grow, we may become subject to additional regulation or higher compliance standards. We are also subject to ongoing reviews of our products and manufacturing processes. For example, formaldehyde is an extensively regulated chemical, which various public health agencies continue to 25 Table of Contents evaluate. The International Agency for Research on Cancer, or IARC, has recently reclassified formaldehyde as “carcinogenic to humans,” a higher classification than previous IARC evaluations, based principally on a study conducted by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) linking formaldehyde exposure to nasopharyngeal cancer, a rare form of cancer in humans. IARC also concluded that there was strong but not sufficient evidence for a finding of a causal association between leukemia and occupational exposure to formaldehyde, although IARC could not identify a mechanism for leukemia induction. IARC’s monograph reporting this decision has not yet been published. It is possible that this reclassification will lead to further governmental review of existing regulations and may result in additional costly requirements. In addition, BPA, which is used as an intermediate at our Deer Park and Pernis manufacturing facilities and is also sold directly to third parties, is currently under evaluation as an “endocrine disrupter.” Endocrine disrupters are chemicals that have been alleged to interact with the endocrine systems of humans and wildlife and disrupt normal processes. Pursuant to EU regulation 793/93/EC, BPA producers are currently conducting an extensive toxicology testing program of the chemical. In the event that BPA is further regulated, additional operating costs would likely be incurred to meet more stringent regulation of the chemical. In order to obtain regulatory approval of certain new products, we must, among other things, demonstrate to the relevant authority that the product is safe for its intended uses and that we are capable of manufacturing the product in accordance with current regulations. The process of seeking approvals can be costly, time consuming and subject to unanticipated and significant delays. Approvals may not be granted to us on a timely basis, or at all. Any delay in obtaining, or any failure to obtain or maintain, these approvals would adversely affect our ability to introduce new products and to generate revenue from those products. New laws and regulations may be introduced in the future that could result in additional compliance costs, seizures, confiscation, recall or monetary fines, any of which could prevent or inhibit the development, distribution or sale of our products. For example, we produce resin-coated sand. Because sand consists primarily of crystalline silica, it creates the potential for silica exposure, which is a recognized health hazard. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA, will likely propose in 2006 a comprehensive occupational health standard for crystalline silica to provide for lower permissible exposure limits, exposure monitoring, medical surveillance and worker training. We may have to incur substantial additional costs over time to comply with any new OSHA regulations. In addition, the European Commission is finalizing a new regulatory system, known as Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals, or REACH, which would require manufacturers, importers and consumers of certain chemicals to register such chemicals and evaluate their potential impacts on human health and the environment. Based on the results of the evaluation, a newly created regulatory body would then determine if the chemical should be further tested, regulated, restricted or banned from use. If REACH is enacted in its current form, significant market restrictions could be imposed on the current and future uses of chemical products sold by us in the European Union. Because the timing and ultimate form of the potential REACH regulation is not yet known, we cannot accurately predict future compliance costs, which could be significant. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. Because we manufacture and use materials that are known to be hazardous, our production facilities are subject to significant operating hazards which could cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to, or destruction of, property and equipment and environmental contamination. We are dependent on the continued operation of our 86 production facilities. These facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacture, handling, storage and transportation of chemical materials and products, including pipeline leaks and ruptures, explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime, labor difficulties, transportation interruptions, and environmental hazards, such as spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances and gases, storage tank leaks and remediation complications. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to, or destruction of, property and equipment and environmental contamination and other environmental damage and 26 Table of Contents could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, due to the nature of our business operations, we have been and may continue to be subject to scrutiny from environmental action groups. For example, currently there is an environmental group in the vicinity of our Louisville facility led by residents of the “Rubbertown” area, in which there are many chemical facilities, including our plant. As is typical for such groups, residents are claiming that the chemical facilities have caused health and property damage. In addition, in another state, we have been named as a defendant in a lawsuit involving one of our divested facilities that alleges residents living nearby suffered health issues as a result of exposure to chemicals used at that plant. In addition, a group has challenged the use of toluene di-isocyanate (“TDI”) at our Môlndal, Sweden facility. As a result, a court has ruled that TDI use under the current permit must be reduced. Although we are appealing the court’s ruling, a limit on TDI use would restrict certain operations at that facility. The activities by the environmental groups could result in additional litigation and damage to our reputation. We may incur losses beyond the limits of, or outside the coverage of, our insurance policies, in particular for liabilities associated with environmental cleanup that may arise out of such hazards. In addition, from time to time, various types of insurance for companies in the chemical industry, such as coverage for silica claims, have not been available on commercially acceptable terms, or, in some cases, have been unavailable. In the future, we may not be able to obtain coverage at current levels, and our premiums may increase significantly on coverage that we maintain. We are subject to adverse claims from our customers and their employees as a result of the hazardous nature of our products. We produce hazardous chemicals that require appropriate procedures and care to be used in handling them or using them to manufacture other products. As a result of the hazardous nature of some of the products we use and produce, we may face exposure relating to incidents involving our customers’ improper handling, storage and use of our products. On February 20, 2003, an explosion occurred at the facility of one of our customers, CTA Acoustics, Inc., which we refer to as CTA. Seven plant workers were killed and more than 40 workers were injured. There are six lawsuits in Laurel County, Kentucky, arising out of this incident, primarily seeking recovery for wrongful death, personal injury, emotional distress, loss of consortium, property damage and indemnity. On October 20, 2005, a settlement was reached with representatives of seven deceased plant workers and twelve seriously injured workers. Our proposed share of the settlement amount is expected to be covered by insurance. The property damage claim and suits by workers for emotional distress and minor injuries remain to be resolved. Although we believe that we have adequate insurance coverage to address any additional payments and/or legal fees in excess of $5 million involved in any single incident, we could be subject to additional significant judgments given the nature of this litigation. We have historically faced a substantial number of lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, claiming liability for death, injury or property damage caused by products we manufacture or those that contain our components. These lawsuits, and any future lawsuits, could result in substantial damage awards against us, which in turn could encourage additional lawsuits. The classification of formaldehyde as “carcinogenic to humans” by IARC could become the basis in product liability litigation, particularly if there are any definitive studies demonstrating a causal association with leukemia. In addition, in large part as a result of the bankruptcies of many producers of asbestos containing products, plaintiffs’ attorneys are increasing their focus on peripheral defendants, including us, and asserting that even products that contained a small amount of asbestos caused injury. Plaintiffs’ attorneys are also focusing on alleged harm caused by other products we have made or used, including silica-containing resin coated sands and vinyl chloride monomer, or VCM. While we cannot predict the outcome of pending suits and claims, we believe that we have adequate reserves to address currently pending litigation and adequate insurance to cover currently pending and foreseeable future claims. An unfavorable outcome in these litigation matters may cause our profitability, business, financial condition and reputation to decline. Our substantial international operations subject us to risks not faced by domestic competitors, which include unfavorable political, regulatory, labor and tax conditions in other countries. We have significant manufacturing operations outside the United States. In 2005, our net sales outside the United States represented approximately 50% of our total sales. We have 49 production facilities located outside the United States, primarily concentrated in Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, the Czech Republic, 27 Table of Contents Germany, Italy, Korea, Malaysia, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Accordingly, our business is subject to the differing legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. Risks are inherent in international operations, including, but not limited to, the following: • difficulty in enforcing agreements through foreign legal systems; • foreign customers may have longer payment cycles; • foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade and investment, including currency exchange controls; • fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and may adversely affect the profitability in U.S. dollars of products and services provided by us in foreign markets where payment for our products and services is made in the local currency; • increased costs of transportation or shipping; • risk of nationalization of private enterprises; • changes in general economic and political conditions in the countries in which we operate; • unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements, including those with respect to environmental protection, export duties and quotas; • difficulty with staffing and managing widespread operations; and • required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations. In addition, intellectual property rights may be more difficult to enforce in foreign countries. We currently have joint ventures in China, where we license technology to our joint venture partners. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property in China or elsewhere. Our business in emerging markets requires us to respond to rapid changes in market conditions in these countries. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. We may not continue to succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that will be effective in each location where we do business. Furthermore, each of the foregoing risks is likely to take on increased significance as we implement our plans to expand our foreign operations. Currency translation risk and currency transaction risk may negatively affect our net sales, cost of sales and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. We conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of most countries in which we operate. In 2005, our net sales outside the United States represented approximately 50% of our total sales. Accordingly, our results of operations are reported in the relevant local currency and then translated to U.S. dollars at the applicable currency exchange rate for inclusion in our financial statements. Changes in exchange rates between those foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect our net sales, cost of sales and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from the currency in which it receives revenues. In an effort to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations we engage in exchange rate hedging activities. However, the hedging transactions we enter into may not be effective or could result in foreign exchange hedging loss. The impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations cannot be accurately predicted. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to effectively manage our currency transaction and/or translation risks, and any volatility in currency exchange rates may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. We operate our business in countries that historically have been and may continue to be susceptible to recessions or currency devaluation, including Brazil and Malaysia. In addition, as we expand our business in emerging markets, particularly China and Russia, the uncertain regulatory environment relating to currency policy in these countries could have a negative impact on our operations there. 28 Table of Contents Failure to develop new products will make us less competitive. Our results of operations depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our product offerings, and to continue to develop our production processes to be a competitive producer. We are committed to remaining a competitive producer and believe that our portfolio of new or re-engineered products is strong. However, we may not be able to continue to develop new products, re-engineer our existing products successfully or bring them to market in a timely manner. For example, our historical research and development efforts generally have focused on customer service, and we may be unsuccessful in shifting our focus to the type of research that will lead to significant new product development. In addition, some of our research and development scientists are located at our individual plants rather than at a research facility, which may impede their ability to share ideas and create new products. While we believe that the products, pricing and services we offer customers are competitive, we may not be able to continue to attract and retain customers to which to sell our products. We face competition from other chemical companies, which could force us to lower our prices, thereby adversely affecting our operating margins, financial condition, cash flows and profitability. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and this competition could harm our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Our competitors include major international producers as well as smaller regional competitors. We believe that the most significant competitive factor for our products is selling price and we may be forced to lower our selling price based on our competitors’ pricing decisions, thereby reducing our profitability. In addition, current and anticipated future consolidation among our competitors and customers may cause us to lose market share as well as put downward pressure on pricing. Furthermore, there is a trend in the chemical industry toward relocation of manufacturing facilities to lower-cost regions such as Asia. Such relocation may permit some of our competitors to lower their costs and improve their competitive position. Some of our competitors are larger, have greater financial resources and have less debt than we do. As a result, those competitors may be better able to withstand a change in conditions within our industry and throughout the economy as a whole. If we do not compete successfully, our business, operating margins, financial condition, cash flows and profitability could be adversely affected. Competition from producers of materials that are substitutes for formaldehyde-based resins could lead to declines in our net sales attributable to these products. We face competition from a number of products that are potential substitutes for formaldehyde-based resins. Currently, we estimate that formaldehyde-based resins make up most of the resins used as panelboard resins, wood and specialty adhesives and industrial resins. Decreases in the average selling price of formaldehyde may cause our profitability to decline. For example, competition among producers of foundry and specialty resins has led to erosion in certain product prices in the past. Our ability to maintain or increase our profitability will continue to be dependent, in large part, upon our ability to offset decreases in average selling prices by improving production efficiency or by shifting to higher margin chemical products. In addition, in some markets, non-formaldehyde based resins may be an alternative to our formaldehyde-based resins. Considerable growth in these substitutes for formaldehyde-based resins could adversely affect our market share, net sales and profit margins. Furthermore, the movement towards substitute products could be exacerbated as a result of the IARC recent reclassification of formaldehyde from a “probable human carcinogen” to “carcinogenic to humans” based on studies linking formaldehyde exposure to nasopharyngeal cancer, and a possible causal association between leukemia and occupational exposure to formaldehyde. Acquisitions and joint ventures that we pursue may present unforeseen integration obstacles and costs, increase our leverage and negatively impact our performance. We have made acquisitions of related businesses, and entered into joint ventures in the recent past and intend to selectively pursue acquisitions of, and joint ventures with, related businesses as one element of our growth strategy. We are evaluating several potential tuck-in acquisitions and are in various stages of due diligence and 29 Table of Contents negotiations with respect thereto. These transactions may not be consummated in the foreseeable future, if at all, and we may not consummate significant acquisitions in the future. We may, in the future, pursue acquisitions of a significantly larger scale than in the past. If such acquisitions are consummated, the risk factors we describe below, and for our business generally, may be intensified. Our ability to implement our growth strategy is limited by covenants in our senior secured credit facilities and indentures, our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity, and our ability to integrate or identify appropriate acquisition and joint venture candidates. Moreover, acquisitions of businesses may require us to assume or incur additional debt financing, resulting in additional leverage and complex debt structures. The expense incurred in consummating acquisitions of related businesses, or our failure to integrate such businesses successfully into our existing businesses, could result in our incurring unanticipated expenses and losses. Furthermore, we may not be able to realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions or joint ventures. The process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Some of the risks associated with our acquisition and joint venture strategy include: • potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; • unexpected loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company; • conforming the acquired company’s standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations; • coordinating new product and process development; • hiring additional management and other critical personnel; and • increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. In addition, we may encounter unforeseen obstacles or costs in the integration of acquired businesses. For example, the preparation of the US GAAP financial statements for Bakelite required significant management resources. Also, the presence of one or more material liabilities of an acquired company that are unknown to us at the time of acquisition may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our acquisition and joint venture strategy may not be successfully received by customers, and we may not realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions or joint ventures. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our key employees. We are dependent on the services of Craig O. Morrison, our President and Chief Executive Officer, William H. Carter, our Chief Financial Officer and other members of our senior management team, who collectively have over 140 years of experience in the chemical and plastics industries, to remain competitive in our industry. The loss of Mr. Morrison or any other member of our senior management team could have an adverse effect on us. There is a risk that we will not be able to retain or replace these key employees. All of our current key employees are subject to employment conditions or arrangements that contain post employment non-competition provisions. However, these arrangements permit the employees to terminate their employment with little or no notice. We may be required to expend greater time and expense than other companies in dealing with our employees, some of whom are unionized, represented by workers’ councils or are employed subject to local laws that are less favorable to employers than the laws of the United States. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 46% of our employees were unionized or represented by workers’ councils that have collective bargaining agreements. In addition, some of our employees are employed in countries in which employment laws provide greater bargaining or other rights to employees than the laws of the United States. Such favorable employment rights require us to expend greater time and expense in making 30 Table of Contents changes to employees’ terms of employment or making staff reductions. For example, most of our employees in Europe are represented by workers’ councils which must approve any changes in conditions of employment, including salaries and benefits. “Protection against dismissal” claims have been brought by certain of such workers’ councils in connection with Bakelite’s cost-saving initiatives. A significant dispute with our employees may divert management’s attention and otherwise hinder our ability to conduct our business and achieve planned cost savings. We rely on patents and confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our future performance and growth. Protection of our proprietary processes, methods and compounds and other technology is important to our business. Failure to protect our existing intellectual property rights may result in the loss of valuable technologies or having to pay other companies for infringing on their intellectual property rights. We rely on patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright law as well as judicial enforcement to protect such technologies. A majority of our patents relate to the development of new products and processes for manufacturing and use thereof and expire at various times between 2006 and 2026. Some of our technologies are not covered by any patent or patent application. In addition, our patents could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. Furthermore, pending patent applications may not result in an issued patent, or if patents are issued to us, such patents may not provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies. Our production processes and products are specialized. However, we could face patent infringement claims from our competitors or others alleging that our processes or products infringe on their proprietary technology. If we were subject to an infringement suit, we may be required to change our processes or products or stop using certain technologies or producing the infringing product entirely. Even if we ultimately prevail in an infringement suit, the existence of the suit could cause our customers to seek other products that are not subject to infringement suits. Any infringement suit could result in significant legal costs and damages and impede our ability to produce key products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. In some countries we do not apply for patent, trademark or copyright protection. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary manufacturing expertise, continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. While we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, such confidentiality agreements are limited in duration and could be breached, and may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or proprietary manufacturing expertise. Adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. In addition, others may obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or other access by legal means. The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets and proprietary manufacturing expertise, methods and compounds could have an adverse effect on our business by jeopardizing critical intellectual property. If we are unable to access funds generated by our subsidiaries we may not be able to meet our financial obligations. Because Hexion conducts many of its operations through its subsidiaries, Hexion depends on those entities for dividends, distributions and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet its financial obligations. Legal and contractual restrictions in certain agreements governing current and future indebtedness of Hexion’s subsidiaries, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of Hexion’s subsidiaries, may limit Hexion’s ability to obtain cash from its subsidiaries. All of Hexion’s subsidiaries are separate and independent legal entities and have no obligation whatsoever to pay any dividends, distributions or other payments to Hexion. 31 Table of Contents Significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may increase the valuation of pension obligations, alter the funded status of pension plans and increase our pension costs. Our funding policy for pension plans is to accumulate plan assets that, over the long run, will approximate the present value of projected benefit obligations. Our pension cost is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure pension obligations, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations at the measurement date and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in corresponding increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets, particularly equity securities, or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. A change in the discount rate would result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following financial years. Similarly, changes in the expected return on plan assets assumption can result in significant changes in the net periodic pension cost of the following financial years. One of the Company’s pension plans is currently underfunded and we may have to make significant cash payments to the plan and/or incur a liability to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. Termination by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation would further increase our pension expense and could result in liens on material amounts of our assets. On April 14, 2005, the Company notified the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or PBGC, that a legacy Borden Chemical defined benefit pension plan (the “Borden Plan”) was underfunded by approximately $104 million on a termination basis. IRS regulations require us to increase our contributions to the Borden Plan to reduce this underfunding. Based on current IRS regulations and plan provisions, we expect that our total minimum funding requirements for the five years ended in 2010 for the Borden Plan will be approximately $55 million. If the performance of the assets in the Borden Plan does not meet our expectations, if the PBGC requires additional contributions to the Borden Plan as a result of the Hexion Formation if there are changes to IRS regulations or other applicable law, or if other actuarial assumptions are modified, our contributions for those years could be higher than we expect. The need to make these cash contributions may reduce the cash available to meet our other obligations or to meet the needs of our business. In addition, the PBGC may terminate the Borden Plan under limited circumstances, including in the event the PBGC concludes that its risk may increase unreasonably if the Borden Plan continues. In the event the Borden Plan is terminated for any reason while it is underfunded, we could be required to make an immediate payment to the PBGC of all or a substantial portion of the Borden Plan’s underfunding, as calculated by the PBGC based on its own assumptions (which might result in a larger pension obligation than that based on the assumptions we have used to fund the Borden Plan), and the PBGC could assert a lien on material amounts of our assets. In addition, in 2003, the IRS notified the Company that cash balance plans such as the Borden Plan may be required to be amended because of recent ERISA rulings that found cash balance plans to be discriminatory. The IRS indicated that the Borden Plan should continue to operate as currently designed until new guidance is available. Although the effect of any future guidance is not known, it is possible that such guidance may increase our obligations under the Borden Plan. 32 Table of Contents Our equity sponsor controls us and its interests may conflict with or differ from your interests. Apollo beneficially owns approximately 91% of our common stock. In addition, representatives of Apollo have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of directors. As a result, Apollo has the ability to substantially influence all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of our directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers, tender offers and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. The interests of Apollo and its affiliates could conflict with or differ from your interests. For example, the concentration of ownership held by Apollo could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of our company or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination, which you may otherwise view favorably. Apollo may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. A sale of a substantial number of shares of stock in the future by funds affiliated with our equity sponsor could cause our stock price to decline in the future. Our internal control over financial reporting may not be effective and our independent auditors may not be able to certify as to their effectiveness, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and reputation. We will be subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder (which we refer to as Section 404) as of December 31, 2007. Section 404 requires us to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, the design and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Prior to the Combinations, Borden Chemical and Resolution Performance had performed the system and process evaluation in an effort to comply with management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. However, prior to the Combinations, Bakelite and Resolution Specialty were not required to meet these regulations. In the course of our ongoing Section 404 evaluation, we have identified areas of internal controls that need improvement. 33 Table of Contents For example, Bakelite’s original system of financial reporting was designed to comply with German GAAP; accordingly, Bakelite’s management determined that Bakelite did not have sufficient internal controls and resources relating to the preparation of US GAAP financial statements. As Resolution Specialty began the process of developing a stand-alone infrastructure, Resolution Specialty’s management determined that Resolution Specialty did not have sufficient internal controls and resources relating to the preparation of US GAAP financial statements. In addition, as our international operations have expanded and the complexity of our business has increased, we have determined that, in some instances, local resources are not adequately familiar with US GAAP areas such as income tax accounting. As a result of such determinations, we have utilized additional outside advisors, as appropriate, to assess and to assist with the US GAAP closing and consolidation processes associated with preparing the financial statements included herein, including the conversion of local and German GAAP to US GAAP. While we have added additional resources to assist with the US GAAP closing, tax accounting and consolidation processes, for future reporting periods, such closing and consolidation processes may result in delays in reporting our results. In order to improve our internal controls, we have changed and expanded the roles and responsibilities of key personnel and made changes to certain processes related to financial reporting. As part of the integration of Resolution Specialty and Resolution Performance, we continue the process of consolidating some of the transaction processing and general accounting activities of Resolution Specialty, and Resolution Performance to a lesser extent, into a common shared services transaction processing environment with the Corporate and North American activity related to the former Borden Chemical operation. We have also recently launched a project to consolidate multiple legacy systems and multiple SAP® systems. Once fully implemented, this change to a shared services business model (for certain processes) along with a single SAP® system is intended to further enhance our internal control over financial reporting and our operating efficiencies. We have also expanded the scope of the services of the international accounting firm that provides tax accounting and compliance services and support to include Resolution Performance, Resolution Specialty and Bakelite. Management has also added additional tax personnel to assist current personnel in monitoring the tax reporting process and continues to evaluate the need for additional tax, US GAAP and financial reporting resource needs based on the Combinations and recent acquisitions. However, as the evaluation process is ongoing, we may identify additional conditions that may be categorized as areas of internal control that need improvement in the future. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, documentation, testing and any remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. If our remediation actions described above are insufficient and we are not able to obtain reports or institute controls on a timely basis, the chief financial officer or chief executive officer may conclude that our controls are ineffective for purposes of Section 404, our independent auditors may conclude that our assessment process or our internal control over financial reporting were not effective. As a result, there could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements or our financial statements could change. In addition, we may be required to incur costs in improving our internal control system and the hiring of additional personnel. Any such action could negatively affect our results of operations. 34 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 