Risk Factors Disruptions in the supply of copper and other raw materials used in our products could cause us to be unable to meet customer demand, which could result in the loss of customers and net sales. Copper is the primary raw material that we use to manufacture our products. Other significant raw materials that we use are plastics, such as polyethylene and polyvinyl chloride, aluminum, linerboard and wood reels. There are a limited number of domestic and foreign suppliers of copper and these other raw materials. We typically have supplier agreements with terms of one to two years for our raw material needs that do not require us to purchase a minimum amount of these raw materials. If we are unable to maintain good relations with our suppliers or if there are any business interruptions at our suppliers, we may not have access to a sufficient supply of raw materials. If we lose one or more key suppliers and are unable to locate an alternative supply, we may not be able to meet customer demand, which could result in the loss of customers and net sales. Fluctuations in the price of copper and other raw materials, as well as fuel and energy, and increases in freight costs could increase our cost of goods sold and affect our profitability. The prices of copper and our other significant raw materials, as well as fuel and energy costs, are subject to considerable volatility; this volatility has affected our profitability and we expect that it will continue to do so in the future. Our agreements with our suppliers generally require us to pay market price for raw materials at the time of purchase. As a result, volatility in these prices, particularly copper prices, can result in significant fluctuations in our cost of goods sold. If the cost of raw materials increases and we are unable to increase the prices of our products, or offset those cost increases with cost savings in other parts of our business, our profitability would be reduced. As a result, increases in the price of copper and other raw materials may affect our profitability if we cannot effectively pass these price increases on to our customers. In addition, we pay the freight costs on certain customer orders. In the event that freight costs increase substantially, due to fuel surcharges or otherwise, our profitability would decline. The markets for our products are highly competitive, and our inability to compete with other manufacturers in the wire and cable industry could harm our net sales and profitability. The markets for wire and cable products are highly competitive. We compete with at least one major competitor in each of our business lines. Many of our products are made to industry specifications and may be considered fungible with our competitors’ products. Accordingly, we are subject to competition in many of our markets primarily on the basis of price. We must also be competitive in terms of quality, availability, payment terms and customer service. We are facing increased competition from products manufactured in foreign countries that in many cases are comparable in terms of quality but are offered at lower prices. For example, in 2003, we experienced a decline in net sales due principally to the loss of several customers who opted for foreign sourcing, where labor costs are lower. Unless we can produce our products at competitive prices or purchase comparable products from foreign sources on favorable terms, we may experience a decrease in our net sales and profitability. Some of our competitors have greater resources, financial and otherwise, than we do and may be better positioned to invest in manufacturing and supply chain efficiencies and product development. We may not be able to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with new competitors. Our net sales, net income and growth depend largely on the economic strength of the markets that we serve, and if these markets become weaker, we could suffer decreased sales and net income. Many of our customers use our products as components in their own products or in projects undertaken for their customers. Our ability to sell our products is largely dependent on general economic conditions, including how much our customers and end-users spend on information technology, new construction and building, maintaining or reconfiguring their communications network, industrial manufacturing assets and power transmission and distribution infrastructures. A general weakening in any or all of these economic conditions could adversely affect our results. In the early 2000s, many companies significantly reduced their capital equipment and information technology budgets, and construction activity that necessitates the building or modification of communication 8 Table of Contents networks and power transmission and distribution infrastructures slowed considerably as a result of a weakening of the U.S. and foreign economies. As a result, our net sales and financial results declined significantly in those years. We are dependent upon a number of key customers. If they were to cease purchasing our products, our net sales and profitability would likely decline. We are dependent upon a number of key customers, although none of our customers accounted for more than 10% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2007. Our customers can cease buying our products at any time and can also sell products that compete with our products. The loss of one or more key customers, or a significant decrease in the volume of products they purchase from us, could result in a drop in our net sales and a decline in our profitability. In addition, a disruption or a downturn in the business of one or more key customers could reduce our sales and could reduce our liquidity if we were unable to collect amounts they owe us. We face pricing pressure in each of our markets, and our inability to continue to achieve operating efficiency and productivity improvements in response to pricing pressure may result in lower margins. We face pricing pressure in each of our markets as a result of significant competition and industry over capacity, and price levels for many of our products (after excluding price adjustments related to the increased cost of copper) have declined over the past few years. We expect pricing pressure to continue for the foreseeable future. A component of our business strategy is to continue to achieve operating efficiencies and productivity improvements with a focus on lowering purchasing, manufacturing and distribution costs. We may not be successful in lowering our costs. In the event we are unable to lower these costs in response to pricing pressure, we may experience lower margins and decreased profitability. We have significant indebtedness outstanding and may incur additional indebtedness that could negatively affect our business. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. On December 31, 2007, we had approximately $367.8 million of indebtedness, comprised of $243.0 million under our 9.875% Senior Notes due 2012, including an unamortized debt premium of $3.0 million (“Senior Notes”), $123.4 million of indebtedness under our credit facility, and $1.4 million of capital leases and other debt. Our high level of indebtedness and dependence on indebtedness could have important consequences to our shareholders, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing for capital expenditures, potential acquisition opportunities or general corporate or other purposes may be impaired; • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, reducing the funds available to us for other purposes; • it may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged; and • we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, may be limited in our ability to respond to competitive pressures and may have reduced flexibility in responding to changing business, regulatory and economic conditions. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend upon, among other things, our future operating performance and our ability to refinance indebtedness when necessary. Each of these factors is, to a large extent, dependent on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. If, in the future, we cannot generate sufficient cash from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations, we will need to refinance our existing debt, issue additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, obtain additional financing or sell assets. Our business may not be able to generate cash flow or we may not be able to obtain funding sufficient to satisfy our debt service requirements. 9 Table of Contents We may not have the ability to repurchase our senior notes upon a change of control as required by the indenture governing our senior notes. Upon the occurrence of specific kinds of change of control events, we will be required to offer to repurchase all of our outstanding senior notes at 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase. We may not have sufficient funds to make the required repurchase in cash at such time or the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms. In addition, our ability to repurchase our senior notes in cash may be limited by law or the terms of other agreements relating to our debt outstanding at the time. If we fail to repurchase any of our senior notes submitted in a change of control offer, it would constitute an event of default under the indenture, which could, in turn, constitute an event of default under our other debt instruments, even if the change of control itself would not cause a default. This could result in the acceleration of our payment obligations under all of our debt instruments and, if we are unable to meet those payment obligations, this could have an adverse material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Growth through acquisitions is a significant part of our strategy and we may not be able to successfully identify, finance or integrate acquisitions in order to grow our business. Growth through acquisitions has been, and we expect it to continue to be, a significant part of our strategy. We regularly evaluate possible acquisition candidates. We may not be successful in identifying, financing and closing acquisitions on favorable terms. Potential acquisitions may require us to obtain additional financing or issue additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, and any such financing and issuance of equity may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we finance acquisitions by issuing equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, our existing shareholders could be diluted, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our stock. If we finance an acquisition with debt, it could result in higher leverage and interest costs. Further, we may not be successful in integrating any such acquisitions that are completed. Integration of any such acquisitions may require substantial management, financial and other resources and may pose risks with respect to production, customer service and market share of existing operations. In addition, we may acquire businesses that are subject to technological or competitive risks, and we may not be able to realize the benefits expected from such acquisitions. If we are unable to retain senior management and key employees, we may experience operating inefficiencies and increased costs, resulting in diminished profitability. Our success has been largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management and key employees. The loss of any of our senior management or other key employees could result in operation inefficiencies and increased costs. We may be unable to find qualified replacements for these individuals if their services were no longer available, and, if we do identify replacements, the integration of those replacements may be disruptive to our business. Advancing technologies, such as fiber optic and wireless technologies, may make some of our products less competitive and reduce our net sales. Technological developments could cause our net sales to decline. For example, a significant decrease in the cost and complexity of installation of fiber optic systems or a significant increase in the cost of copper-based systems could make fiber optic systems superior on a price performance basis to copper systems and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Also, advancing wireless technologies, as they relate to network and communication systems, may reduce the demand for our products by reducing the need for premises wiring. Wireless communications depend heavily on a fiber optic backbone and do not depend as much on copper-based systems. An increase in the acceptance and use of voice and wireless technology, or introduction of new wireless or fiber-optic based technologies, may have a material adverse effect on the marketability of our products and our profitability. If wireless technology were to significantly erode the markets for copper-based systems, our sales of copper premise cables could face downward pressure. 10 Table of Contents If our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to recognize charges that would reduce our income. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., goodwill and certain other intangible assets are not amortized but must be reviewed for possible impairment annually, or more often in certain circumstances if events indicate that the asset values are not recoverable. Such reviews could result in an earnings charge for the impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, which would reduce our income without any change to our underlying cash flow. We may have difficulty integrating the operations of Copperfield and Woods. Should we fail to integrate their operations, our results of operations and profitability could be negatively impacted. We might not be successful in integrating the operations of Copperfield and Woods with Coleman Cable, and we might not perform as we expect. Some of the integration challenges we face include differences in corporate culture and management styles, additional or conflicting governmental regulations, disparate company policies and practices, customer relationship issues and retention of key officers and personnel. In addition, management may be required to devote an inordinate amount of time to the integration process. We cannot make assurances that we will successfully or cost-effectively integrate operations. The failure to do so could have a negative effect on results of operations or profitability. The process of integrating operations could cause some interruption of, or the loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our businesses. We have incurred restructuring charges in the past and may incur additional restructuring charges in the future. Over the last five years, we have incurred approximately $2.3 million in charges related to restructuring our production facilities, and expect to record additional restructuring costs in the future, including those related to the integration of Copperfield and Woods. In November 2007, our board of directors approved management’s integration strategy for Copperfield which involves the streamlining of Copperfield’s manufacturing operations and cost reductions related to the elimination of overlap between Coleman and Copperfield. The integration plan includes the consolidation and closure of Copperfield manufacturing and distribution facilities located in Avilla, Indiana; Nogales, Arizona; and El Paso, Texas, into operations at one modern facility in El Paso, Texas. These measures resulted in our recording approximately $0.3 million in restructuring charges during 2007 (which are included in the $2.3 million total for the past five years, as noted above). In addition, we expect to incur between $3.5 million to $4.5 million in restructuring costs in 2008 for restructuring costs associated with the Copperfield integration. We estimate that these measures will result in net cash expenditures of approximately $2.0 million to $3.0 million in 2008 depending on various factors including the timing of the sale of two of our owned facilities and the amount of proceeds received. We expect that these measures will result in cash savings of approximately $3.0 million in 2009 and subsequent years. In January 2008, we announced plans to consolidate three of our existing distribution facilities (located in Indianapolis, Indiana; Gurnee, Illinois; and Waukegan, Illinois) into a single leased distribution facility in Pleasant Prairie, Wisconsin. We expect the new facility to be in operation and the closures of the effected facilities to be largely completed by the end of second quarter of 2008. The Indianapolis facility, acquired in connection with the Woods acquisition, will be closed in advance of its scheduled lease termination date, whereas we expect to utilize the remaining two leased facilities in our operations through their remaining lease terms, which end in 2008. We expect to incur total costs between approximately $2.4 million and $3.4 million as a result of the above-described plan, primarily facility closure and severance-related costs. The majority of the cash expenditures are expected to be treated as a purchase accounting adjustments to be recorded in 2008, with the remainder accounted for as restructuring or operating expense in 2008. We may not be able to achieve the planned cash flows and savings estimates if we are unable to accomplish these integration activities in a timely basis, are unable to achieve expected efficiencies in our manufacturing and logistics consolidations, or unforeseen developments or expenses arise. Under our current growth plan, we intend to continue to realign plant production, which may result in additional and potentially significant restructuring charges. 11 Table of Contents Some of our employees belong to a labor union and certain actions by such employees, such as strikes or work stoppages, could disrupt our operations or cause us to incur costs. As of December 31, 2007, we employed 1,535 persons, approximately 19% of whom are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, which expires on December 22, 2009. If unionized employees were to engage in a concerted strike or other work stoppage, if other employees were to become unionized, or if we are unable to negotiate a new collective bargaining agreement when the current one expires, we could experience a disruption of operations, higher labor costs or both. A strike or other disruption of operations or work stoppage could reduce our ability to manufacture quality products for our customers in a timely manner. We may be unable to raise additional capital to meet working capital and capital expenditure needs if our operations do not generate sufficient funds to do so. Our business is expected to have continuing capital expenditure needs. If our operations do not generate sufficient funds to meet our capital expenditure needs for the foreseeable future, we may not be able to gain access to additional capital, if needed, particularly in view of competitive factors and industry conditions. In addition, recent increases in the cost of copper have increased our working capital requirements. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, or unable to obtain additional capital on favorable terms, our liquidity may be diminished and we may be unable to effectively operate our business. We are subject to current environmental and other laws and regulations. We are subject to the environmental laws and regulations of each jurisdiction where we do business. We are currently, and may in the future be, held responsible for remedial investigations and clean-up costs of certain sites damaged by the discharge of hazardous substances, including sites that have never been owned or operated by us but at which we have been identified as a potentially responsible party under federal and state environmental laws. As a result of our 2000 merger with Riblet Products Corporation, we may be subject to potential liability under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 9601 et seq. We have established reserves for such potential liability and believe those reserves to be adequate; however, there is no guarantee that such reserves will be adequate or that additional liabilities will not arise. See “Legal Proceedings.” Changes in environmental and other laws and regulations in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions could adversely affect our operations due to increased costs of compliance and potential liability for noncompliance. Disruption in the importation of our raw materials and products and the risks associated with international operations could cause our operating results to decline. We source certain raw materials and products from outside the U.S. Foreign material purchases expose us to a number of risks, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs, possible difficulties in enforcing agreements, exchange rate fluctuations, difficulties in obtaining import licenses, economic or political instability, embargoes, exchange controls or the adoption of other restrictions on foreign trade. Although we currently manufacture the vast majority of our products in the U.S., to the extent we decide to establish foreign manufacturing facilities, our foreign manufacturing sales would be subject to similar risks. Further, imports of raw materials and products are subject to unanticipated transportation delays that affect international commerce. Complying with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may strain our resources and divert management. We are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to furnish a report by our management on the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Since 2008 will be the first time that we will have to furnish such a report for Copperfield and Woods, we expect to incur material costs and to spend significant management time to comply with Section 404. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate experience and technical accounting knowledge, and we may not be able to do so in a timely fashion. 12 Table of Contents We have risks associated with inventory. Our business requires us to maintain substantial levels of inventory. We must identify the right mix and quantity of products to keep in our inventory to meet customer orders. Failure to do so could adversely affect our sales and earnings. However, if our inventory levels are too high, we are at risk that an unexpected change in circumstances, such as a shift in market demand, drop in prices, or default or loss of a customer, could have a material adverse impact on the net realizable value of our inventory. Changes in industry standards and regulatory requirements may adversely affect our business. As a manufacturer and distributor of wire and cable products, we are subject to a number of industry standard setting authorities, such as Underwriters Laboratories. In addition, many of our products are subject to the requirements of federal, state, local or foreign regulatory authorities. Changes in the standards and requirements imposed by such authorities could have an adverse effect on us. In the event that we are unable to meet any such standards when adopted, our business could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 