Item 1A. Risk Factors Our stock price may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may be highly volatile. Our common stock price could be subject to fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • conditions or trends in medical devices and diagnostic cardiology products markets; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant customer wins or losses, gains or losses of distributors, technological innovations, new products or services; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • sales of a large number of shares of our common stock; • adverse litigation; • unfavorable legislative or regulatory decisions; and • general market conditions. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the target of securities class action litigation. We may become the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert management attention, which could seriously harm our business. The unpredictability of our quarterly revenues and operating results may cause the trading price of our stock to decrease. The quarterly revenues and operating results of Quinton and CSI have varied in the past and our quarterly revenues and operating results may continue to vary in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Factors contributing to these fluctuations may include: • the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, and other significant corporate events; • changes in our ability to obtain products and product components that are manufactured for us by third parties; • delays in the development or commercial introduction of new versions of products; • the ability to attain and maintain production volumes and quality levels for our products and product components; • effects of domestic and foreign economic conditions on our industry and/or customers; • changes in the demand for our products; • varying sales cycles that can take up to a year or more; • changes in the mix of products we sell, which could affect our revenue levels as well as our gross margins; • unpredictable budgeting cycles of our customers; • delays in obtaining regulatory clearance for new versions of our products; • increased product and price competition; 18 Table of Contents • the impact of regulatory changes on the availability of third-party reimbursement to customers of our products; • the loss of key personnel; • the loss of key distributors or distribution companies; and • seasonality in the sales of our products. Historically, both Quinton’s and CSI’s quarterly financial results were often impacted by the receipt of a large number of customer orders in the last weeks of a quarter. Absent these orders, our sales could fall short of our targets, and our stock price could decline. Due to the factors summarized above, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results will not be a good indication of our future performance and should not be relied on to predict future operating results. Failure to successfully develop and commercialize new versions of our products would cause our operating results to suffer. To be successful, we must develop and commercialize new versions of our products for both domestic and international markets. Our products are technologically complex and must keep pace with rapid and significant technological change, comply with rapidly evolving industry standards and government regulations, and compete effectively with new product introductions of our competitors. Accordingly, many of our products require significant planning, design, development and testing at the technological, product and manufacturing process levels. Our success in developing and commercializing new versions of our products is affected by our ability to: • accurately assess customer needs; • develop products that are easy to use; • minimize the time required to obtain, as well as the costs of, required regulatory clearance or approval; • price competitively; • manufacture and deliver on time; • accurately predict and control costs associated with manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance; • manage customer acceptance and payment; • limit demands by our customers for retrofits; • access new interface standards needed for product connectivity; • anticipate and meet demands of our international customers for products featuring local language capabilities; and • anticipate and compete effectively with our competitors’ efforts. The rate of market acceptance of our current or our future products may impact operating results. In addition, we may experience design, manufacturing, marketing or other difficulties that could delay or prevent our development, introduction or marketing of new versions of our products. These difficulties and delays could cause our development expenses to increase and harm operating results. 19 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain our relationships with our distribution or strategic partners or such organizations fail to successfully distribute our products, our sales and operating results may suffer. We sell many of our products principally through third party distribution and strategic partners. One of these domestic distribution organizations, Physicians Sales and Service, Inc., accounted for 13% of the Company’s revenues in 2005. If these agreements are cancelled or if we are unable to renew them as they expire, our sales and operating results may suffer materially. Our international distribution and strategic relationships may be terminated on little or no notice because we do not generally have long-term contracts with these distributors. Consequently, our success in expanding international sales may be limited if our international distributors lack, or are unable to develop, relationships with important target customers in international markets. We have little or no control over our distribution and strategic partners. If our relationships change with any significant distribution organization, or if any of our distribution and strategic partners are not successful in distributing our products or devote more effort to selling competing products and systems, our sales and operating results may suffer and our growth may be limited. If suppliers discontinue production of purchased components of our products, and we are unable to secure alternative sources for these components on a timely basis, our ability to ship products to our customers may be adversely affected, our revenues may decline and costs may increase as a result. If our suppliers discontinue production of component parts for our products, we may be unable to obtain replacement parts in a timely manner. In addition, alternative sources of these components may result in higher costs. Any failure to secure alternative sources for these components in a timely manner or on reasonably acceptable terms could result in significant delays in product shipments or we may be required to modify certain products to utilize the available components. This could result in reduced revenues, higher costs or both. Inadequate levels of reimbursement from governmental or other third-party payers for procedures using our products may cause revenues to decrease. Significant changes in the healthcare systems in the U.S. or elsewhere could have a significant impact on the demand for our products and services as well as the way we conduct business. Federal, state, and local governments have adopted a number of healthcare policies intended to curb rising healthcare costs. In the U.S., healthcare providers that purchase certain of our products often rely on governmental and other third-party payers, such as federal Medicare, state Medicaid, and private health insurance plans, to pay for all or a portion of the cost of the procedures that utilize those products. The availability of this reimbursement affects customers’ decisions to purchase capital equipment. Denial of coverage or reductions in levels of reimbursement for procedures performed using our products by governmental or other third-party payers would cause our revenues to decrease. If we fail to obtain or maintain applicable regulatory clearances or approvals for our products, or if clearances or approvals are delayed, we will be unable to commercially distribute and market our products in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. Our products are medical devices that are subject to significant regulation in the United States and in foreign countries where we will conduct business. The processes for obtaining regulatory approval can be lengthy and expensive, and the results are unpredictable. If we are unable to obtain clearances or approvals needed to market existing or new products, or obtain such clearances or approvals in a timely fashion, it could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our business is subject to intense competition, which may reduce the demand for our products. The diagnostic cardiology systems market and the AED market are highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. Some of our competitors are larger companies, such as General 20 Table of Contents Electric Company, Medtronic Emergency Response Systems, a unit of Medtronic, Inc., and Philips Medical Systems, a unit of Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V., who may have: • greater financial and other resources; • greater variety of products; • greater pricing flexibility; • more extensive technical capabilities; • patent portfolios that may present an obstacle to our conduct of business; • stronger name recognition; and • larger distribution networks. As a result, we may be unable to offer products similar to, or more desirable than, those offered by our competitors, market our products as effectively as our competitors, price our products competitively or otherwise respond successfully to competitive pressures. In addition, our competitors may be able to offer discounts on competing products as part of a “bundle” of non-competing products, systems, and services that they sell to our customers, and we may not be able to profitably match those discounts. Our competitors may develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we currently offer or that render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, the timing of the introduction of competing products into the market could affect the market acceptance and market share of our products. If we are unable to develop competitive products, gain regulatory approval or clearance and supply sufficient quantities of these products to the market as quickly and effectively as our competitors, market acceptance of our products may be limited, which could result in decreased revenue. If we do not maintain or grow revenues from our support services or consumables, our operating and financial results may be negatively impacted. A significant portion of our revenues is generated from post-sale support services we provide for our products and from the sale of ancillary cardiology products and consumables related to our products, such as patented electrodes, pads, cables, leads, and thermal chart paper. As hospitals expand their in-house capabilities to service diagnostic equipment and systems, they may be able to service our products without additional support from us. In addition, our customers may express an increasing preference for ancillary cardiology products and consumables that are manufactured or provided by other vendors. Any of these events could result in a decline in our revenues and a resulting adverse effect on our financial and operating results. Our lack of customer purchase contracts and our limited order backlog make it difficult to predict sales and plan manufacturing requirements, which can lead to lower revenues, higher expenses and reduced margins. Our customers typically order products on a purchase order basis, and we do not generally have long-term purchase contracts. In limited circumstances, customer orders may be cancelled, changed or delayed on short notice. Lack of significant order backlog makes it difficult for us to forecast future sales with certainty. Long and varying sales cycles with our customers make it difficult to accurately forecast component and product requirements. These factors expose us to a number of risks: • if we overestimate our requirements we may be obligated to purchase more components or third-party products than is required; • if we underestimate our requirements, our third-party manufacturers and suppliers may have an inadequate product or product component inventory, which could interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and revenues; 21 Table of Contents • we may also experience shortages of product components from time to time, which also could delay the manufacturing of our products; and • over or under production can lead to higher expense, lower than anticipated revenues, and reduced margins. If market conditions cause us to reduce the selling price of our products, or our market share is negatively affected by the activities of our competitors, our margins and operating results will decrease. The selling price of our products and the extent of our market share are subject to market conditions. Market conditions that could impact these aspects of our operations include: • lengthening of buying or selling cycles; • the introduction of competing products; • price reductions by our competitors; • development of more effective products by our competitors; • hospital budgetary constraints; and • changes in the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers. If such conditions force us to sell our products at lower prices, or if we are unable to effectively develop and market competitive products, our market share, margins and operating results will likely decrease. We are dependent upon licensed and purchased technology for some of our products, and we may not be able to renew these licenses or purchase agreements in the future. We license and purchase technology from third parties for features in some of our products. We anticipate that we will need to license and purchase additional technology to remain competitive. We may not be able to renew existing licenses and purchase agreements or to license and purchase other technologies on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to renew existing licenses and purchase agreements or to license or purchase new technologies, we may not be able to offer competitive products, which could negatively impact our revenues. We are exposed to numerous risks associated with international operations. We market our products in international markets. International operations entail various risks, including: • political instability; • economic instability and recessions; • exposure to currency fluctuations; • less favorable third-party reimbursement policies; • longer payment cycles; • difficulties of administering foreign operations generally; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights; • increased risk of exposure to terrorist activities; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • obligations to comply with a wide variety of foreign laws and other regulatory requirements. 22 Table of Contents If we experience any of these risks and are unable to adequately respond in a timely manner, our results of operations may be harmed. Charges to earnings resulting from the application of the purchase method of accounting may adversely affect the market value of our common stock. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, we accounted for the merger transaction using the purchase method of accounting. Under the purchase method of accounting, we preliminarily allocated the total estimated purchase price to CSI’s net tangible assets, and identifiable intangible assets based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the transaction, and recorded the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. We will incur additional amortization expense over the estimated useful lives of certain of the identifiable intangible assets acquired in connection with the transaction. We have estimated such additional amortization expenses to be approximately $3.1 million per year over the next several years. To the extent the value of goodwill becomes impaired, we may be required to incur charges relating to the impairment of goodwill, and such charges may be material. Goodwill impairment charges would reduce our net income and earnings per share, which could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. If we are unable to retain our executive officers and hire and retain other key personnel, we may not be able to sustain or grow our business. Our success is dependent in large part on the continued employment and performance of key executive managerial, sales and technical personnel and our ability to attract and retain additional highly qualified personnel. We compete for key personnel with other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. Our ability to maintain and expand our business may be impaired if we are unable to retain our current key personnel, hire or retain other qualified personnel in the future, or if our key personnel decided to join a competitor or otherwise competed with us. Undetected product errors or defects could result in increased warranty costs, loss of revenues, product recalls, delayed market acceptance, and claims against us. Any errors or defects in our products discovered after commercial release could result in: • failure to achieve market acceptance; • loss of customers, revenues, and market share; • diversion of development resources; • increased service and warranty costs; • legal actions by its customers; and • increased insurance costs. If we experience any of these events, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. We may face product liability claims, which could cause our operating results to suffer. The testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical devices subject us to the risk of liability claims or product recalls. As a result, we may be subject to liability claims or product recalls for products to be distributed in the future or products that have already been distributed by our predecessors. Although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage may not be adequate or may not be available at affordable rates. A successful product liability claim could inhibit or prevent commercialization of our products, impose a significant financial burden on us, or both, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents Our technology may become obsolete, which could negatively impact our ability to sell our products. The medical equipment and healthcare industries are characterized by extensive research and rapid technological change. The development by others of new or improved products, processes, or technologies may make our products obsolete or less competitive. Accordingly, we plan to devote continued resources, to the extent available, to further develop and enhance existing products and to develop new products. These efforts may not be successful. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights will likely cause our business to suffer. Our success depends in part on obtaining, maintaining, and enforcing our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights, and our ability to avoid infringing the proprietary rights of others. We take precautionary steps to protect our technological advantages and intellectual property rights and rely in part on patent, trade secret, copyright, know-how, and trademark laws, license agreements and contractual provisions to establish our intellectual property rights and protect our products. These precautionary steps may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. In addition, the validity and breadth of claims covered in medical technology patents involve complex legal and factual questions and therefore may be highly uncertain. It is possible that: • additional patents may not be issued to us; • the scope of any existing or future patents may not exclude competitors or provide us with competitive advantages; • any of our patents may not be held valid and enforceable if challenged; or • others may claim rights in or ownership to our patents and other proprietary rights. Furthermore, others may have developed or could develop similar products or patent rights, may duplicate our products, or design around our current or future patents. In addition, others may hold or receive patents which contain claims having a scope that covers products developed by us. We rely upon trade secrets to protect our proprietary technology. Others may independently develop or otherwise acquire substantially equivalent know-how, or gain access to and disclose our proprietary technology. We require our new employees, consultants, and corporate partners to execute confidentiality agreements at the commencement of their employment or consulting relationship with us. However, these agreements may not provide effective protection of our proprietary information or, in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure, they may not provide adequate remedies. If we are not able to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, we may have to limit or modify our product offerings, which would negatively impact our revenues. Our predecessors have been, and in the future we may be, involved in claims alleging infringement of intellectual property rights, which could be costly and time consuming. There has been extensive litigation in the medical device industry regarding alleged infringement of patents and other intellectual property rights. For example, CSI has been involved in such litigation from time to time as disclosed in periodic reports that it filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Third parties may claim that products developed and sold by us infringe on their patents and other intellectual property rights. Identifying third-party patent rights can be particularly difficult because, in the U.S., patent applications are maintained in secrecy for up to eighteen months after their filing dates. Moreover, patent applications can be maintained in secrecy until they issue, if they were filed before November 29, 2000, are not subject to publication in any country, or have otherwise properly requested maintaining secrecy to issuance. Some companies in the medical device industry have used intellectual property infringement litigation to gain a competitive advantage. In the event a competitor were to challenge patents or licenses held by us, or assert that products developed and sold by us infringe its patent or other intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial litigation costs, be forced to make expensive changes to product designs, license rights in order to continue manufacturing and selling our products, or pay substantial damages. Third-party infringement claims, regardless of their outcome, would not only 24 Table of Contents drain our financial resources but also divert the time and effort of our management and could result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of the affected products until resolution of the litigation. In February 2003, CSI filed a patent infringement action against Philips Medical Systems North America, Inc., Philips Electronics North America Corporation and Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V., or Philips, in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota. The suit alleges that Philips’ automated external defibrillators sold under the names “HeartStart OnSite Defibrillator”, “HeartStart,” “HeartStart FR2” and the “HeartStart Home Defibrillator” infringe at least ten of our U.S. patents. In the same action, Philips counterclaimed for infringement of certain of its patents and CSI has sought a declaration from the court that its products do not infringe such patents. Many of the Philips defibrillators are promoted by Philips as including, among other things, pre-connected disposable defibrillation electrodes and daily self-testing of electrodes and battery, features that the suit alleges are key competitive advantages of CSI’s Powerheart and Survivalink AEDs and are covered under CSI’s patents. At this stage, we are unable to predict the outcome of this litigation. We have not established an accrual for this matter because a loss is not determined to be probable. Our reliance on a principal manufacturing facility may impair our ability to respond to natural disasters or other unforeseen catastrophic events. We have integrated the manufacturing operations of Quinton and CSI into a principal manufacturing facility, located in a single building in Deerfield, Wisconsin. Despite precautions taken by us, a natural disaster or other unanticipated catastrophic events at this building could significantly impair our ability to manufacture our products and operate our business. Our facility and certain manufacturing equipment located in that facility would be difficult to replace and could require substantial replacement lead-time. Catastrophic events may also destroy any inventory of product or components located in our facility. While we carry insurance for natural disasters and business interruption, the occurrence of such an event could result in losses that exceed the amount of this insurance coverage, which would impair financial results. We may make future acquisitions, which involve numerous risks that could impact our business and results of operations. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to selectively acquire other businesses, product lines, assets, or technologies, which are complementary to our product offerings. Successful execution of our acquisition strategy depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, and products of the acquired companies; • the risk of diverting management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development; • risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; • initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners; • insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; • the risk that acquired lines of business may reduce or replace the sales of existing products; and • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. Future acquisitions may not be successful and, if we are unable to effectively manage the risks described above, our business, operating results or financial condition may be negatively affected. 25 Table of Contents We may need additional capital to continue our acquisition growth strategy. Successful continued execution of our acquisition strategy also depends upon our ability to obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing. We likely would require additional debt or equity financing to make any further significant acquisitions. Such financing may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If we are required to incur additional indebtedness to fund acquisitions in the future, our cash flow may be negatively affected by additional debt servicing requirements and the terms of such indebtedness may impose covenants and restrictions that provide us less flexibility in how we operate our business. Fluctuations in our stock price may make it difficult to make acquisitions using our stock as consideration. Moreover, use of our stock to fund acquisitions may have a significant dilutive effect on existing shareholders. If we fail to successfully enter into strategic alliances to generate growth, our operating results may be negatively affected. A component of our growth strategy is to enter into strategic alliances in order to complement and expand our current product and service offerings and distribution. There can be no assurances that a strategic alliance will perform as expected or generate significant revenues or profits. If we do not identify potential strategic alliances or enter into strategic alliances that fail to generate additional revenue, our operating and financial results may be negatively impacted. Future issuances of our common stock could cause our stock price to decline. As of December 31, 2005 and after applying the Quinton and CSI exchange ratios, as appropriate, we have reserved 3,884,703 shares of common stock for issuance upon the exercise of options that are either outstanding or may be granted under the Company’s stock-based compensation plans. The holders of these instruments may exercise them at a time when we would otherwise be able to obtain additional equity capital on terms more favorable to us. The exercise of these instruments and the sale of the common stock obtained upon exercise would have a dilutive effect on our stockholders and may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance, public disclosure and accounting matters may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market, as well as new accounting pronouncements, are creating uncertainty and additional complexities for companies. To maintain high standards of corporate governance, public disclosure and financial reporting, we continue to invest resources to comply with evolving standards. This investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating and cost management activities. Future changes in the accounting treatment for employee stock options may cause adverse fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. We currently elect to apply the disclosure-only provisions of SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation” (“SFAS No. 123”). In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123, we apply Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” and related interpretations in accounting for our employee stock option plans. Under this election, we account for stock options granted to employees using the intrinsic value method of accounting. Under this method, employee stock-based compensation expense is based on the difference, if any, between the fair value of our stock and the exercise price of the award on the grant date. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the principle United States accounting standards setting organization, issued SFAS 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment,” (“SFAS No. 123R”) which, will require us to record an expense for all outstanding unvested stock options and grants of new stock options. In April 2005, the 26 Table of Contents U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission adopted a new rule amending the compliance dates for SFAS No. 123R. In accordance with the new rule, the accounting provisions of SFAS No. 123R will be effective for us in the first quarter of 2006. The pronouncement will also require us to record an expense for our employee stock purchase plan. As a result of changing our accounting policy in accordance with this pronouncement, our reported earnings, beginning in the first quarter of 2006, will be significantly negatively impacted. Our charter documents and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of preferred stock with the designations, rights, and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors, without any further vote or action by our stockholders. In addition, our board of directors will have staggered terms that make it difficult to remove all directors at once. Lastly, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law limits business combination transactions with interested stockholders that have not been previously approved by the issuer’s board of directors. Our board of directors could choose not to negotiate with an acquirer that it did not feel was in our strategic interest. If the acquirer was discouraged from offering to acquire us or prevented from successfully completing a hostile acquisition by the anti-takeover measures described above, our stockholders could lose the opportunity to sell their shares at a favorable price. Utilization of our deferred tax assets may be limited and is dependent on future taxable income. In connection with the merger transaction, and at the end of 2004, deferred tax assets were recognized on our balance sheet. The deferred tax assets primarily represent the income tax benefit of net operating loss (NOL) and credit carryforwards of Quinton and CSI, relating to prior periods. Based upon a review of our historical operating performance and our expectation that, including the anticipated cost savings that we expect to realize from post-merger consolidation and integration, we will generate sustainable profitability for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, we believe it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be fully utilized, subject to applicable federal and state limitations. We will evaluate our ability to utilize our net operating loss (“NOL”) and tax credit carryforwards in future periods and, in compliance with SFAS No. 109, record any resulting adjustments that may be required to deferred income tax expense. In addition, we will reduce the deferred income tax asset for the benefits of NOL and tax credit carryforwards actually used in future periods and will recognize and record federal and state income tax expense at statutory rates in future periods. If, in the future, we determine, based on our assessment of both positive and negative evidence and objective and subjective evidence, which takes into consideration our forecasted taxable income, that it is more likely than not that we will not realize all or a portion of the deferred tax assets, we will record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets which would result in a charge to income tax expense. Additionally, deferred income tax adjustments recorded in connection with the merger transaction will differ from amounts initially recorded as management obtains all information that is has arranged to obtain and that is known to be available, and adjusts the allocation of purchase price, accordingly. Adjustments to deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from management obtaining all information that it has arranged to obtain will require management to re-evaluate its assessment of the Company’s ability to realize the benefit of acquired deferred tax assets and may result in the recording of a deferred tax asset valuation allowance as part of its final purchase price allocation. Our future financial results could be adversely impacted by asset impairments. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” requires us to not amortize goodwill and other intangible assets determined to have indefinite lives, and established a method of testing these assets for impairment on an annual or on an interim basis if certain 27 Table of Contents events occur or circumstances change that would reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value or if the fair value of intangible assets with indefinite lives falls below their carrying value. We also need to evaluate intangible assets determined to have finite lives for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of the business, or other factors such as a decline in our market value below its book value for an extended period of time. A significant decline in our stock price could require us to evaluate goodwill for impairment and intangible assets for recoverability during the quarter in which the decline occurred. In the case of intangible assets with indefinite lives, we will need to evaluate whether events or circumstances continue to support an indefinite useful life. We will need to evaluate the estimated lives of all intangible assets on an annual basis, including those with indefinite lives, to determine if events and circumstances continue to support an indefinite useful life or the remaining useful life, as applicable, or if a revision in the remaining period of amortization is required. The amount of any such annual or interim impairment charge could be significant, and could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 