ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating To Our Business If our products do not achieve widespread market acceptance in the United States, our operating results will be harmed and we may not achieve profitability. Our success will depend, in large part, on the medical community’s acceptance of our principal products in the United States, which is the largest revenue market in the world for medical devices. The U.S. medical community’s acceptance of our products will depend upon our ability to demonstrate the safety and efficacy, advantages, long-term clinical performance and cost-effectiveness of our products as compared to other products. In addition, acceptance of products for the treatment of AF is dependent upon, among other factors, the level of screening for AF and the awareness and education of the medical community about the surgical treatment of AF, in general, and the existence, effectiveness and, in particular, the safety of our products. Market acceptance and adoption of our products for the treatment of AF also depends on the level of reimbursement to doctors and hospitals for the use of our products. We cannot predict whether the U.S. medical community will accept our products or, if accepted, the extent of their use. Negative publicity resulting from isolated incidents involving our products or other products related to those we sell could have a significant adverse effect on the overall acceptance of our products. If we encounter difficulties developing a market for our products in the United States, we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to achieve profitability, and our business and operating results will be seriously harmed. We rely on our ablation and ablation related products as our primary sources of revenue. If we are not successful in selling these products, or if these products become obsolete, our operating results will be harmed. Our ablation products, such as our clamps and related products, generate a large majority of our revenue. We expect that sales of these products will continue to account for a majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future and that our future revenue will depend on the increasing acceptance by the medical community of our products as a standard treatment alternative for the surgical treatment of AF during open-heart surgical procedures and as a sole-therapy minimally invasive procedure. We may not be able to maintain or increase market acceptance of our products for a number of additional reasons, including those set forth elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section. In addition, our products may become obsolete prior to the end of their anticipated useful lives or we may introduce new products or next-generation products prior to the end of the useful life of a prior generation, either of which may require us to dispose of existing inventory and related capital instruments and/or write off their value or accelerate their depreciation. Since we believe that doctors are using our ablation and ablation related products only for the surgical treatment of AF, if doctors do not use our products to treat AF, we would lose substantially all of our revenue. 20 Table of Contents Current worldwide economic conditions may have reduced demand for procedures using our products or otherwise resulted in adverse implications on our business, operating results and financial condition. General worldwide economic conditions deteriorated beginning in late 2007 due to the effects of, among other developments, the subprime lending crisis, general credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. Although there may be signs of an improving economic environment, the deteriorated economic environment continues and may continue for the next several years. Because many procedures using our products are elective, they can be deferred by patients. In addition, patients may not be as willing under current economic conditions to take time off from work or spend their money on deductibles and co-payments often required in connection with the procedures that use our products. Beyond patient demand, any continuing worldwide economic crisis, including in particular its effect on the credit and capital markets, may have other adverse implications for our business. For example, our customers’ ability to borrow money from their existing lenders or to obtain credit from other sources to purchase our products may be impaired resulting in a decrease in sales. Although we maintain allowances for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments, we cannot guarantee that we will accurately predict the loss rates we will experience, especially given any continuing turmoil in the worldwide economy. A significant change in the liquidity or financial condition of our customers could cause unfavorable trends in our receivable collections and additional allowances may be required, which could adversely affect our operating results. Healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. There have been and may continue to be proposals by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to keep, contain or reduce healthcare costs. The continuing efforts of governments, insurance companies and other payors of healthcare costs to contain or reduce these costs, combined with closer scrutiny of such costs, could lead to patients being unable to obtain approval for payment from these third-party payors. The cost containment measures that healthcare providers are instituting both in the U.S. and internationally could harm our business. Some health care providers in the U.S. have adopted or are considering a managed care system in which the providers contract to provide comprehensive health care for a fixed cost per person. Health care providers may attempt to control costs by authorizing fewer elective surgical procedures or by requiring the use of the least expensive devices possible, which could adversely affect the demand for our products or the price at which we can sell our products. Some healthcare providers have sought to consolidate and create new companies with greater market power, including hospitals. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide products and services has become and will continue to become more intense. This has resulted and likely will continue to result in greater pricing pressures and the exclusion of certain suppliers from important marketing segments. We face significant uncertainty in the industry due to government healthcare reform. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended, (the “Patient Act”) as well as other healthcare reform may have a significant impact on our business. The impact of the Patient Act on the health care industry is extensive and includes, among other things, the federal government assuming a larger role in the health care system, expanding healthcare coverage of United States citizens and mandating basic healthcare benefits. In addition, any health care reforms enacted in the future may, like the Patient Act, be phased in over a number of years but, if enacted, could reduce our revenue, increase our costs, or require us to revise the ways in which we conduct business or put us at risk for loss of business. In addition, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by changes under the Patient Act and changes under any federal or state legislation adopted in the future. 21 Table of Contents Our quarterly financial results are likely to fluctuate significantly because our sales prospects are uncertain. Due to current worldwide economic conditions and other factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section which may impact our sales results, our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter or from prior year to current year periods, particularly because our sales prospects are uncertain. These fluctuations may also affect our annual operating results and may cause those results to fluctuate unexpectedly from year to year. Restrictions in our ability to train doctors in the use of our products could reduce the market acceptance of our products or result in injuries to patients or other adverse events that could possibly lead to litigation that could harm us or could reduce our revenue. It is critical to the success of our sales efforts to ensure that there are a sufficient number of doctors familiar with, trained on and proficient in the use of our products. While we educate and train doctors as to the skills involved in the proper use of our products, it is not our policy to educate or train them to use any products for the surgical treatment of AF, unless the product is approved for the treatment of AF. Until December 2011 doctors learned to use our products for the treatment of AF through independent training programs sponsored by hospitals and universities and through independent peer-to-peer training among doctors. In December 2011 our Synergy System was cleared for the treatment of certain AF patients during certain open-heart procedures. We are initiating a comprehensive physician training program to train all existing users of the Synergy System over an eighteen month period as well as a training and education program for all new users on the use of our Synergy System. We cannot assure you that a sufficient number of doctors will become aware of training programs, or that doctors will dedicate the time, funds and energy necessary to obtain training for themselves or to train others in the use of our products. In addition, our inability to directly train doctors in off-label use exposes us to a risk that our products may not be used correctly and may also expose us to a greater risk of product liability for injuries sustained during procedures utilizing our products. Unless and until we obtain additional FDA approval for our products, we will not be able to promote many of our products to treat AF or the reduction in stroke risk, and our ability to maintain and grow our business could be harmed. Although our Synergy System recently received FDA approval for the treatment of AF for certain patients and certain procedures, we have not received FDA clearance or approval to promote many of our products for the treatment of AF or the reduction in stroke risk. See “Business—Government Regulation.” Unless and until we obtain FDA clearance or approval for the use of our products for the treatment of AF or reduction in stroke risk we, and others acting on our behalf, may not promote our products for such uses, make any claim that our system is safe and effective for such uses, or proactively discuss or provide information on the use of our system in connection with such uses. We cannot assure you that future clearances or approvals of our products will be granted or that current or future clearances or approvals will not be withdrawn. Failure to obtain a clearance or approval or loss of an existing clearance or approval, could hurt our ability to maintain and grow our business. Unless and until we are able to complete the clinical trials required to support future submissions to the FDA, and unless and until the data generated by such trials supports the use of our products as safe and effective for the treatment of AF or reduction in stroke risk, we may not be able to secure additional FDA clearances or approvals and our ability to maintain and grow our business could be harmed. In order to obtain additional FDA approvals to promote our products for the treatment of AF or reduction in stroke risk, we will need to demonstrate in clinical trials that our products are safe and effective for such use. We cannot assure you that any of our clinical trials will be completed in a timely manner or successfully or that the results obtained will be acceptable to the FDA. In addition, if the results obtained from our clinical trials, any other clinical studies, or clinical or commercial experience indicate that any of our products are not safe or 22 Table of Contents effective, or not as safe or effective as other treatment options, the FDA may not approve our products for the treatment of AF or reduction in stroke risk, adoption of the use of our products may suffer and our business would be harmed. We have experienced and may continue to experience unfavorable publicity relating to our business and our industry. This publicity has had and may continue to have a negative impact on our ability to attract and retain customers, our sales, clinical studies involving our products, our reputation and our stock price. We believe that we experienced a negative impact on our business from newspaper articles relating to, among other things, concerns of conflicts of interest between the Cleveland Clinic and us, our compliance with FDA regulations for medical device reporting, concerns that certain of our consultants who are involved with clinical studies and the publication of articles concerning our products failed to adequately disclose their financial relationships with us and our previously settled DOJ investigation. We believe that this publicity has had and may continue to have a negative impact on our clinical studies, business, results of operations and financial condition. We also believe that future unfavorable publicity could cause other adverse effects, including a decline in the price of our stock. We may be subject to fines, penalties, injunctions and other sanctions if we are deemed to be promoting the use of our products for non-FDA approved, or off-label, uses. Our business and future growth depend on the continued use of our products for the treatment of AF or reduction in stroke risk, which, with the exception of our Synergy System’s recent AF approval, are considered off-label use of our products. Under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and other laws, we are prohibited from promoting our products for off-label uses. Unless the products are FDA cleared, we may not make claims about the safety or effectiveness of our products for the treatment of AF or reduction in stroke risk and may not proactively discuss or provide information on the use of our products for the treatment of AF, except in certain limited scientific and other settings. These limitations present a material risk that the FDA or other federal or state law enforcement authorities could determine that the nature and scope of our sales, marketing and/or product support activities, though designed to comply with all FDA requirements, constitute the promotion of our products for a non-FDA approved use in violation of the law. We also face the risk that the FDA or other governmental authorities might pursue enforcement based on past activities that we have discontinued or changed, including sales activities, arrangements with institutions and doctors, educational and training programs and other activities. Investigations concerning the promotion of off-label uses and related issues, including our settlement with the DOJ (see further discussion in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” of this Form 10-K), are typically expensive, disruptive and burdensome and generate negative publicity. If our promotional activities are found to be in violation of the law, we may face significant fines and penalties and may be required to substantially change our sales, promotion, grant and educational activities. There is also a possibility that we could be enjoined from selling some or all of our products for any non-FDA approved use. In addition, as a result of an enforcement action against us or our executive officers, we could be excluded from participation in government healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Also, our failure to comply with the terms of the settlement agreement with the DOJ or the related corporate integrity agreement could result in additional action by the DOJ or the OIG, in fines or penalties or in restrictions on our sales, promotion, grant or educational activities. The use of products we sell may result in injuries or other adverse events that lead to product liability suits, which could be costly to our business or our customers’ businesses. The use of products we sell may result in a variety of serious complications, including damage to the heart, internal bleeding, death or other adverse events, potentially leading to product liability claims. Serious complications, including death, have been encountered in connection with the surgical treatment of AF, including in connection with a limited number of sole-therapy minimally invasive procedures in which our products were 23 Table of Contents used. If products we sell are defectively designed, manufactured or labeled, contain inadequate warnings, contain defective components or are misused, we may become subject to costly litigation by our customers or their patients. We carry product liability insurance that is limited in scope and amount and may not be adequate to fully protect us against product liability claims. We could be required to pay damages that exceed our insurance coverage. Any product liability claim, with or without merit, could result in an increase in our product insurance rates or our inability to secure coverage on reasonable terms, if at all. Even in the absence of a claim, our insurance rates may rise in the future. Any product liability claim, even a meritless or unsuccessful one, would be time-consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of our management’s attention from our business and result in adverse publicity, withdrawal of clinical trial participants, injury to our reputation and loss of revenue. Any of these events could negatively affect our earnings and financial condition. Competition from existing and new products and procedures may decrease our market share and cause our revenue to decline. The medical device industry, including the market for the treatment of AF, is highly competitive, subject to rapid technological change and significantly affected by new product introductions and promotional activities of its participants. We cannot assure you that our products will compete effectively against drugs, catheter-based ablation, implantable devices, other ablation systems, other products or techniques to exclude the left atrial appendage, or other surgical AF treatments, which may be more well-established among doctors and hospitals. We anticipate that new or existing competitors may develop competing products, procedures and/or clinical solutions. There are few barriers to prevent new entrants or existing competitors from developing products to compete directly with ours. Some companies also compete with us to attract qualified scientific and technical personnel as well as funding. Some of our competitors have greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and research and development capabilities than we have or may obtain FDA approval for the use of their products before we do. The introduction of new products, procedures, clinical solutions or our competitors obtaining FDA approvals may result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share and may render our products obsolete, which could adversely affect our net revenue and future profitability. Our intellectual property rights may not provide meaningful commercial protection for our products, which could enable third-parties to use our technology or methods, or very similar technology or methods, and could reduce our ability to compete. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Our patent applications may not issue as patents at all or in a form that will be advantageous to us. Our issued patents and those that may be issued in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products. Although we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, we cannot assure you that third-parties will not be able to design around our patents or, if they do infringe upon our technology, that we will be successful in or will have sufficient resources to pursue a claim of infringement against those third-parties. We believe that third-parties may have developed or are developing products that could infringe upon our patent rights. Any pursuit of an infringement claim by us may involve substantial expense or diversion of management attention. In addition, although we have generally entered into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, investigators and advisors, such agreements may be breached, may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements. Additionally, as is common in the medical device industry, some of these individuals were previously employed at other medical equipment or biotechnology companies, including our competitors. Although no claims are currently pending against us, we may be subject to claims that these individuals or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. 24 Table of Contents Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Foreign countries generally do not allow patents to cover methods for performing surgical procedures. If our intellectual property does not provide significant protection against foreign or domestic competition, our competitors could compete more directly with us, which could result in a decrease in our market share. All of these factors may harm our competitive position. The medical device industry is characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings over patent and other intellectual property rights and any litigation or claim against us may cause us to incur substantial costs, could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our business and harm our reputation. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. Any patent dispute, even one without merit or an unsuccessful one, would be time-consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of our management’s attention from our business and result in adverse publicity, the disruption of development and marketing efforts, injury to our reputation and loss of revenue. Litigation also puts our patent applications at risk of being rejected and our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly, and may provoke third parties to assert claims against us. Any of these events could negatively affect our earnings and financial condition. In the event of a patent dispute, if a third-party’s patents were upheld as valid and enforceable and we were found to be infringing, we could be prevented from selling our products unless we were able to obtain a license to use technology or ideas covered by such patent or are able to redesign our system to avoid infringement. A license may not be available at all or on terms acceptable to us, and we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid any infringement. Modification of our products or development of new products could require us to conduct additional clinical trials and to revise our filings with the FDA and other regulatory bodies, which would be time-consuming and expensive. If we are not successful in obtaining a license or redesigning our products, we may be unable to sell our products and our business could suffer. The increase in cost of medical malpractice premiums to doctors and hospitals or the lack of malpractice insurance coverage due to the use of our products by doctors for an off-label indication may cause certain doctors or hospitals to decide not to use our products and may damage our ability to grow and maintain the market for our system. Insurance carriers have been raising premiums charged for medical malpractice insurance due, at least in part, to increased risks associated with off-label procedures, including higher damage awards for successful plaintiffs. Insurance carriers may continue to raise premiums or they may deny malpractice coverage for procedures performed using products such as ours on an off-label basis. If this trend continues or worsens, our revenue may fall as doctors or hospitals decide against purchasing our products due to the cost or unavailability of insurance coverage. We have a history of net losses and we may never become profitable. We have incurred net losses each year since our inception, including net losses of $5.5 million in 2011, $3.8 million in 2010, $16.5 million in 2009, $10.2 million in 2008, $11.3 million in 2007, $13.7 million in 2006 and $12.7 million in 2005. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $103.2 million. Our net losses have resulted principally from costs and expenses relating to sales and promotional efforts, research and development, seeking regulatory clearances and approvals, goodwill impairment, litigation and settlement costs associated with the DOJ investigation and general operating expenses. We expect to continue to make substantial expenditures and to potentially incur additional operating losses in the future as we further develop and commercialize our products, including completing clinical trials and seeking regulatory clearances and approvals. If sales of our products do not continue to grow as we anticipate, we will not be able to achieve profitability. Our expansion efforts may prove more expensive than we currently anticipate, and we may not 25 Table of Contents succeed in increasing our revenue sufficiently to offset these higher expenses. Our losses have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse impact on our working capital, total assets and accumulated deficit, and we may never become profitable. Our federal tax net operating loss and general business credit carryforwards generated prior to the initial public offering of our common stock will be limited or may expire, which could result in greater future income tax expense and adversely impact future cash flows because we experienced an ownership change of more than 50 percentage points upon the initial public offering of our common stock. In connection with our initial public offering in August 2005, we experienced an ownership change as defined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. Section 382 imposes limitations (“Section 382 limitation”) on a company’s ability to use net operating loss and general business credit carryforwards if a company experiences a more-than-50-percent ownership change over a three-year testing period. The Section 382 limitation could limit the availability of our net operating loss and general business credit carryforwards to offset any future taxable income, which may increase our future income tax expense and adversely impact future cash flows. We had federal income tax net operating loss and general business credit carryforwards at August 5, 2005 that, if not utilized to reduce our taxable income, will begin to expire in 2021. In addition, if the company were to experience a second ownership change of more than 50 percentage points in a future period, the company’s NOL carryforward at the date of the original ownership change would be subject to a second Section 382 limitation. In addition, the company’s NOLs generated subsequent to the original ownership change would be subject to the second Section 382 limitation. Since December 31, 2005 the company has generated additional net operating loss and general business credit carryforwards of $35.7 million and $2.4 million, respectively, which, if not utilized to reduce our taxable income, will begin to expire in 2026. Our capital needs after the next 12 months are uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future and such funds may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and investments, including additional cash generated from a 2012 amendment to our credit facility, will be sufficient to meet our projected capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our current loan agreement (the “Agreement”) with Silicon Valley Bank (the “Bank”), as amended, includes a term loan and a revolving credit facility under which we can borrow a maximum of $20 million. We have borrowed the maximum amount of $10 million under the term loan. We can borrow the lesser of the amount available pursuant to a borrowing base formula and $10.0 million under the revolving loan facility. Based on our current borrowing base, we have availability of approximately $7.0 million. The Agreement is secured by all of our assets, including intellectual property, and the term loan and revolving loan mature on February 1, 2017 and April 30, 2014, respectively. Interest on the term loan accrues at a rate of 6.75% per year, and interest on the revolving loans will accrue at a fluctuating rate equal to the Bank’s announced prime rate of interest plus between 0.25% and 1.25%, depending on our Liquidity Ratio (as defined in the Agreement). We may be unable to comply with the covenants of our credit facility. Our Agreement contains covenants that include, among others, covenants that limit our ability to dispose of assets, enter into mergers or acquisitions, incur indebtedness, incur liens, pay dividends or make distributions on our capital stock, make investments or loans, and enter into certain affiliate transactions, in each case subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type. Additional covenants apply when we have outstanding borrowings under the revolving loan facility or when we achieve specific covenant milestones. The occurrence of an event of default could result in an increase to the applicable interest rate by 3.0%, an acceleration of all obligations under the Agreement, an obligation to repay all obligations in full, and a right by the Bank to exercise all remedies available to it under the Agreement and related agreements including the Guaranty and Security Agreement. If we are unable to pay those amounts, the Bank could proceed against the collateral granted to it pursuant to the credit facility. 26 Table of Contents If we need to raise additional funds, we cannot be certain that such funds will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Furthermore, if we issue equity securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and if we issue equity or debt securities, such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our future products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to expand our operations, develop new products, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. We depend upon single and limited source third-party suppliers and third-party logistics providers, making us vulnerable to supply problems and price fluctuations which could harm our business. We currently rely on single and limited source third-party vendors for the manufacture of many of the components used in our products. For example, we rely on one vendor to manufacture our ASU and ASB. It would be a time consuming and lengthy process to secure these products from an alternative supplier. In addition, in some cases there are relatively few, or no, alternative sources of supply for certain other components that are critical to our products. We also rely on a third party to handle our warehousing and logistics functions for EMEA markets on our behalf and a single supplier (a CRO), to administer our clinical trials and related activities. Our reliance on outside manufacturers and suppliers also subjects us to risks that could harm our business, including: • we may not be able to obtain adequate supply in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms; • we may have difficulty locating and qualifying alternative suppliers; • switching components may require product redesign and new submissions to the FDA which could significantly delay production or, if the FDA refuses to approve the changes, completely eliminate our ability to manufacture or sell our products; • our suppliers manufacture products for a range of customers, and fluctuations in demand for the products those suppliers manufacture for others may affect their ability to deliver components to us in a timely manner; and • our suppliers may encounter financial hardships unrelated to our demand for components, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet our requirements. Identifying and qualifying additional or replacement suppliers for any of the components used in our products or a replacement warehousing and logistics provider, if required, may not be accomplished quickly or at all and could involve significant additional costs. Any interruption or delay in the supply of components, materials or warehousing and logistics, or our inability to obtain components or materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and cause them to cancel orders or switch to competitive products and could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any disruption to our relationship with our CRO could result in a delay in our clinical trials, which could also delay product approvals. Additionally, as a result of regulatory changes in Europe and the United States, our ASU and ASB are currently undergoing compliance verification to determine if they meet new medical device safety standards. In Europe, these new safety standards are effective during the second quarter of 2012. Although we believe our existing ASU and ASB will meet the revised European safety standards, if they do not, we will not be able to sell or loan them in Europe. The ASU and ASB are needed to use our disposable RF devices. Similar standards are expected to become effective in the U.S. during 2013. We are in the process of designing and developing a 27 Table of Contents generator to replace the current ASU and ASB and anticipate it will be completed and available mid-2013 in Europe and by the end of 2013 in the U.S. If the existing generator is not available and our existing ASU and ASB do not meet the revised safety guidelines, it would have a material and substantial impact on the sale of RF devices in both the U.S. and Europe. An inability to forecast future revenue or estimate life cycles of products may result in inventory-related charges that would negatively affect our gross margins and results of operations. To mitigate the risk of supply interruptions, we may choose to maintain excess inventory of our products or component parts. Managing our inventory levels is important to our cash position and results of operations and is more challenging in the current economic environment. As we grow and expand our product offerings, managing our inventory levels becomes more difficult, particularly as we expand into new product areas and bring product enhancements to market. While we rely on our information technology systems for inventory management and to effectively manage accounting and financial functions, our information technology systems may fail to adequately perform these functions or may experience an interruption. An excessive amount of inventory reduces our cash available for operations and may result in excess or obsolete materials. Conversely, inadequate inventory levels may make it difficult for us to meet customer product demand, resulting in decreased revenue. An inability to forecast future revenue or estimated life cycles of products may result in inventory-related charges that would negatively affect our gross margins and results of operations. During 2011 we experienced a substantial increase in our manufacturing costs, primarily overhead, manufacturing inefficiencies and scrap expense, which had a negative impact on our gross margin. While we are working to implement improvements to reduce our scrap rates and improve our manufacturing efficiencies, if we are unable to do so, our gross margins will continue to be negatively impacted by these increased manufacturing expenses, which may result in increased net losses. If we or our third-party vendors fail to comply with extensive FDA regulations relating to the manufacturing of our products or any component part, we may be subject to fines, injunctions and penalties, and our ability to commercially distribute and sell our products may be hurt. Our manufacturing facility and the manufacturing facility of any of our third-party component manufacturers, critical suppliers or third-party sterilization facility are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System regulation, or QSR, which sets forth minimum standards for the procedures, execution and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our Isolator system and other products we sell. The FDA may evaluate our compliance with the QSR, among other ways, through periodic announced or unannounced inspections which could disrupt our operations and interrupt our manufacturing. If in conducting an inspection of our manufacturing facility or the manufacturing facility of any of our third-party component manufacturers, critical suppliers or third-party sterilization facility, FDA investigators observe conditions or practices believed to violate the QSR, the investigators may document their observations on a Form FDA-483 that is issued at the conclusion of the inspection. A manufacturer that receives an FDA-483 may respond in writing and explain any corrective actions taken in response to the inspectional observations. The FDA will typically review the facility’s written response and may re-inspect to determine the facility’s compliance with the QSR and other applicable regulatory requirements. Failure to take adequate and timely corrective actions to remedy objectionable conditions listed on an FDA-483 could result in the FDA taking administrative or enforcement actions. Among these may be the FDA’s issuance of a Warning Letter to a manufacturer, which informs it that the FDA considers the observed violations to be of “regulatory significance” that, if not corrected, could result in further enforcement action. FDA enforcement actions—which include seizure, injunction and criminal prosecution—could result in total or partial suspension of a facility’s production and/or distribution, product recalls, fines, suspension of the FDA’s review of product applications and the FDA’s issuance of adverse publicity. Thus, an adverse inspection could force a shutdown of our manufacturing operations or a recall of our products. Adverse inspections could also delay FDA approval of our products and could have an adverse effect on our production, sales and profitability. 28 Table of Contents During February 2011, in connection with an inspection of our West Chester, Ohio facility, the FDA issued a Form FDA-483, which outlined deficiencies observed by the FDA investigators. We have formally responded in writing to the FDA and taken other corrective and preventative actions. During October 2011 we received from the FDA an Establishment Inspection Report and the FDA has noted “voluntary action indicated.” While we believe we have addressed the findings in the Form 483 and will remain in good standing with the FDA, our actions are subject to the FDA’s verification, and, if the FDA does not verify our actions, we could receive a warning letter and/or be subject to any of the sanctions described above, among others. These sanctions, if imposed, could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. We and any of our third-party vendors may also encounter other problems during manufacturing including failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, equipment malfunction and environmental factors, any of which could delay or impede our ability to meet demand. The manufacture of our product also subjects us to risks that could harm our business, including problems relating to the sterilization of our products or facilities and errors in manufacturing components that could negatively affect the efficacy or safety of our products or cause delays in shipment of our products. Any interruption or delay in the manufacture of the product or any of its components could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and cause them to cancel orders or switch to competitive products and could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with the extensive FDA regulations relating to our business, we may be subject to fines, injunctions and penalties and our ability to commercially distribute and promote our products may be hurt. Our products are classified by the FDA as medical devices and, as such, are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. FDA regulations, guidance, notices and other issuances specific to medical devices are broad and regulate, among other things: • product design, development, manufacturing and labeling; • product testing, including electrical testing, transportation testing and sterility testing; • pre-clinical laboratory and animal testing; • clinical trials in humans; • product safety, effectiveness and quality; • product manufacturing, storage and distribution; • pre-market clearance or approval; • record keeping and document retention procedures; • product advertising, sales and promotion; • post-market surveillance and medical device reporting of events where our device caused or contributed to a death or other serious injury, or malfunctioned in such a way that if it were to recur would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury; • product corrective actions, removals and recalls; and • product import and export. Compliance with FDA, state and other regulations can be complex, expensive and time-consuming. The FDA and other authorities have broad enforcement powers. Furthermore, changes in the applicable governmental regulations could prevent further commercialization of our products and technologies and could materially harm our business. 29 Table of Contents If a serious failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements was determined, it could result in enforcement action by the FDA or other state or federal agencies, including the DOJ, which may include any of the following sanctions, among others: • warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; • repair, replacement, refunds, recall or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • suspension or termination of our clinical trials; • refusing or delaying our pending requests for 510(k) clearance or PMAs, new intended uses or modifications to existing products; • withdrawing 510(k) clearance or PMAs that have already been granted; and • criminal prosecution. If any of these events were to occur, we could lose customers and our production, product sales, business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. We are also subject to medical device reporting regulations that require us to file reports with the FDA if our products reasonably are the cause of or contribute to an adverse event, death, serious injury or, in the event of product malfunction, that if it were to recur, would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. We have a history of submitting medical device reports to the FDA involving our products, including patient deaths, which were categorized as outcomes based on physician judgment, not on the failure of our devices. There have also been other incidents, including patient deaths, which have occurred during procedures using our products that we have not, and believe were not required to be, reported to the FDA because we and our physician consultants determined that our products did not cause or contribute to the outcomes in these incidents. If the FDA disagrees with us, however, and determines that we should have submitted reports for these adverse events, we could be subject to significant regulatory fines or other penalties. In addition, the number of medical device reports we make, or the magnitude of the problems reported, could cause the FDA or us to terminate or modify our clinical trials or recall or cease the sale of our products, and could hurt commercial acceptance of our products. Modifications to our products may require new clearances or approvals or require us to cease promoting or to recall the modified products until such clearances or approvals are obtained and the FDA may not agree with our conclusions regarding whether new clearances or approvals were required. Any modification to a 510(k)-cleared device that would constitute a change in its intended use, design or manufacture, could require a new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, submission and FDA approval of a PMA. The FDA requires every medical device company to make the determination as to whether a new 510(k) is to be filed, but the FDA may review any medical device company’s decision. We have made modifications to our products but do not believe such modifications required us to submit an additional 510(k). The FDA may not agree with our decisions regarding whether new clearances or approvals were required. For example, at the time our Isolator clamps received 510(k) clearance for the ablation of cardiac tissue, through our internal and external regulatory review process, we determined that a new 510(k) was not needed for our Isolator Synergy clamps to change their intended use from the ablation of soft tissue to the ablation of cardiac tissue. The FDA reviewed this decision and indicated that a 510(k) was required to be filed for us to market our Isolator Synergy clamps for cardiac tissue ablation instead of soft tissue ablation. During 2010 we filed a 510(k) and received clearance in November 2010 to market our Isolator Synergy clamps for the ablation of cardiac tissue. If the FDA disagrees with us and requires us to submit a new 510(k), PMA or a different type of PMA supplement for then existing modifications, we may be required to cease promoting or to recall the modified 30 Table of Contents product until we obtain clearance or approval. In addition, we could be subject to significant regulatory fines or other penalties. Furthermore, our products could be subject to recall if the FDA determines, for any reason, that our products are not safe or effective or that appropriate regulatory submissions were not made. Delays in receipt or failure to receive clearances or approvals, the loss of previously received clearances or approvals, or the failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements, could reduce our sales, profitability and future growth prospects. We will spend considerable time and money complying with federal, state and foreign regulations in addition to FDA regulations, and, if we are unable to fully comply with such regulations, we could face substantial penalties. We are subject to extensive regulation by the federal government and the states and foreign countries in which we conduct our business. The laws that affect our ability to operate our business in addition to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and FDA regulations include, but are not limited to, the following: • state food and drug laws, including laws regulating the manufacture, promotion and distribution of medical devices; • state consumer protection, fraud and business practice laws; • the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce either the referral of an individual, or furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid Programs; • the Federal False Claims Act, which prohibits submitting a false claim or causing of the submission of a false claim to the government; • Medicare laws and regulations that prescribe the requirements for coverage and payment, including the amount of such payment, and laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement under Medicare and Medicaid; • the federal doctor self-referral prohibition, commonly known as the Stark Law, which, in the absence of a statutory or regulatory exception, prohibits the referral of Medicare patients by a doctor to an entity for the provision of certain designated healthcare services including inpatient and outpatient hospital services, if the doctor or a member of the doctor’s immediate family has a direct or indirect financial relationship, including an ownership interest in, or a compensation arrangement with, the entity and also prohibits that entity from submitting a bill to a federal payor for services rendered pursuant to a prohibited referral; • state laws that prohibit the practice of medicine by non-doctors and by doctors not licensed in a particular state, and fee-splitting arrangements between doctors and non-doctors, as well as state law equivalents to the Anti-Kickback Statute and the Stark Law, which may not be limited to government-reimbursed items; • federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws or laws protecting the privacy of patient medical information, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA, which protects medical records and other personal health information by limiting their use and disclosure, giving individuals the right to access, amend and seek accounting reasonably necessary to accomplish the intended purpose, and, although we are not a covered entity under HIPAA, as a business associate of covered entities through our contractual agreements with them, we are required to implement and maintain policies, procedures and reasonable and appropriate security measures to protect individually identifiable health information we receive from covered entities; • the Federal Trade Commission Act and similar laws regulating advertising and consumer protection; and • similar and other regulations outside the United States. 31 Table of Contents Certain federal and state laws regarding Medicare, Medicaid and physician self-referrals are broad and we may be required to change one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. Healthcare fraud and abuse regulations are complex and even minor, inadvertent irregularities in submissions can potentially give rise to claims that a statute has been violated. Any violations of these laws could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, if we were found to be in violation of the Federal False Claims Act, we would likely face significant fines and penalties and would likely be required to change substantially our sales, promotion, grant and educational activities. There is also a possibility that we could face an injunction that would prohibit in whole or in part our current business activities, and, as a result of enforcement actions against us or our senior officers, we could be excluded from participation in government healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. If there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In October 2008, the DOJ initiated an investigation of our marketing and promotional practices. Although we admitted to no wrongdoing and believe there was no wrongdoing on the part of us or our employees, during 2010 this investigation resulted in a financial settlement of $4.4 million (which includes interest based on payment terms). Additionally, we incurred substantial legal costs through the investigation and settlement process. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or the other governmental regulations to which we, our distributors or our customers are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If we are required to obtain permits or licensure under these laws that we do not already possess, we may become subject to substantial additional regulation or incur significant expense. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations would adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully or clearly interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are subject to a variety of interpretations and additional legal or regulatory change. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation. Adverse changes in payors’ policies toward coverage and reimbursement for surgical AF treatment would harm our ability to promote and sell our products. Third-party payors are increasingly exerting pressure on medical device companies to reduce their prices. Even to the extent that the treatment of AF using our products is reimbursed by private payors and governmental payors, adverse changes in payors’ policies toward coverage and reimbursement for surgical AF treatment would also harm our ability to promote and sell our products. Payors continue to review their policies and can, without notice, deny coverage for treatments that include the use of our products. Because each third-party payor individually approves coverage and reimbursement, obtaining these approvals may be time-consuming and costly. In addition, third-party payors may require us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of our products. Alternatively, government or private payors may deem the treatment of AF utilizing our products (other than the Synergy System for its cleared indications) experimental or not medically necessary and, as such, not provide coverage. Adverse changes in coverage and reimbursement for surgical AF treatment could harm our business and reduce our revenue. We have limited long-term clinical data regarding the safety and efficacy of our products. Any long-term data that is generated may not be positive or consistent with our limited short-term data, which would affect the rate at which our products are adopted by the medical community. Important factors upon which the efficacy of our products will be measured include long-term data on the number of patients that continue to experience AF or stroke following treatment with our products and the 32 Table of Contents number of patients that have serious complications resulting from AF treatment or stroke reduction using our products. Our clinical trials may produce limited data regarding the efficacy of our products for the treatment of AF or may identify unexpected safety issues. We cannot provide any assurance that the data collected during our clinical trials will be compelling to the medical community because it may not be scientifically meaningful and may not demonstrate that procedures utilizing our products are an attractive option when compared against data from alternative procedures and products. In addition, the long-term effects of ablation system procedures and left atrial appendage exclusion are not known. Negative long-term data would affect the use of our products and harm our business and prospects. We sell our products outside of the United States and we are subject to various regulatory and other risks relating to international operations, which could harm our international revenue and profitability. Doing business outside of the United States exposes us to risks distinct from those we face in our domestic operations. For example, our operations outside of the United States are subject to different regulatory laws and requirements in each jurisdiction where we operate or have sales. Our failure, or the failure of our distributors, to comply with current or future foreign regulatory requirements, or the assertion by foreign authorities that we or they have failed to comply, could result in adverse consequences, including enforcement actions, fines and penalties, recalls, cessation of sales, civil and criminal prosecution, and the consequences could be disproportionate to the relative contribution of our international operations to our results of operations. Moreover, if political or economic conditions deteriorate in these countries, or if any of these countries are affected by a natural disaster or other catastrophe, our ability to conduct our international operations or collect on international accounts receivable could be limited and our costs could be increased, which could negatively affect our operating results. Engaging in business outside of the United States inherently involves a number of other difficulties and risks, including, but not limited to: • export restrictions and controls relating to technology; • pricing pressure that we may experience internationally; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • political and economic instability; • consequences arising from natural disasters and other similar catastrophes, such as hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes, floods and tsunamis; • potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs and other trade barriers; • the need to hire additional personnel to promote our products outside of the United States; • international terrorism and anti-American sentiment; • fluctuations in exchange rates for future sales denominated in foreign currency, which represent a majority of our sales outside of the United States; and • difficulty in obtaining and enforcing intellectual property rights. In addition, our business practices in foreign countries comply with U.S. law, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”). We have a compliance program in place designed to reduce the likelihood of potential violations of the FCPA and other U.S. laws. If violations were to occur, they could subject us to fines and other penalties as well as increased compliance costs. Our exposure to each of these risks may increase our costs and require significant management attention. We cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not harm our business. 33 Table of Contents Our manufacturing operations are conducted at a single location, and any disruption at our manufacturing facility could increase our expenses. All of our manufacturing operations are conducted at a single location in West Chester, Ohio. While we take precautions at this location, we do not maintain a backup manufacturing facility, making us dependent on our current facility for the continued operation of our business. A natural or other disaster could cause substantial delays in our manufacturing operations, damage or destroy our manufacturing equipment and cause us to incur additional expenses. The insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. With or without insurance, damage to our facility or our other property, due to a natural disaster or casualty event, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on independent distributors to market and sell our products in certain markets outside of the United States, and a failure of our independent distributors to successfully market our products in these markets or any disruption in their ability to do so may adversely impact our sales. We depend on third-party distributors to sell our products in certain markets outside of the United States and if these distributors do not perform, we may be unable to increase or maintain our level of international revenue. Over the long term, we intend to continue to grow our business outside of the United States, and to do so we will need to attract additional distributors or hire direct sales personnel to expand the territories in which we sell our products. Independent distributors may terminate their relationship with us or devote insufficient sales efforts to our products. We are not able to control our independent distributors, and they may not be successful in implementing our marketing plans. In addition, many of our independent distributors outside of the United States initially obtain and maintain foreign regulatory approval for sale of our products in their respective countries. Our failure to maintain our relationships with our independent distributors outside of the United States, or our failure to recruit and retain additional skilled independent distributors in these locations, could have an adverse effect on our operations. Turnover among our independent distributors, even if replaced, may adversely affect our short-term financial results while we transition to new independent distributors or direct personnel. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates including, in particular, any strengthening of the U.S. dollar may cause our independent sales distributors to seek longer payment terms to offset the higher prices they are paying in local currency for our products. The ability of these third-party distributors to market and sell our products could also be adversely affected by unexpected events, including, but not limited to, power failures, nuclear events, natural or other disasters and war or terrorist activities. In addition, in light of the worldwide economic crisis, the ability of our distributors to borrow money from their existing lenders or to obtain credit from other sources to purchase our products may be impaired or our distributors could experience a significant change in their liquidity or financial condition, all of which could impair their ability to distribute our products and eventually lead to distributor turnover. If coverage and adequate levels of reimbursement from governmental and third-party payors outside of the United States are not attained and maintained, sales of our products outside of the United States may decrease and we may fail to achieve or maintain significant sales outside of the United States. Our revenue generated from sales outside of the United States is also dependent upon the availability of coverage and reimbursement within prevailing foreign healthcare payment systems. In general, foreign healthcare payors do not provide reimbursement for sole-therapy minimally invasive procedures utilizing ablation devices and related products. In addition, healthcare cost containment efforts similar to those we face in the United States are prevalent in many of the other countries in which we sell our products, and these efforts are expected to continue. To the extent that the use of an ablation device such as our Isolator clamp has historically received reimbursement under a foreign healthcare payment system, if any, such reimbursement, if any, has typically been significantly less than the reimbursement provided in the United States. If coverage and adequate levels of reimbursement from governmental and third-party payors outside of the United States are not attained and maintained, sales of our products outside of the United States may decrease and we may fail to achieve or maintain significant sales outside of the United States. 34 Table of Contents We depend on our officers and other skilled and experienced personnel to operate our business effectively. If we are not able to retain our current employees or recruit additional qualified personnel, our business will suffer and our future revenue and profitability will be impaired. We are highly dependent on the skills and experience of our President and Chief Executive Officer, David J. Drachman, and certain other officers and key employees. We do not have any insurance in the event of the death or disability of our key personnel other than Mr. Drachman. Our officers and key employees, with the exception of our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Vice President, General Manager International, do not have employment agreements and they may terminate their employment and work elsewhere without notice and without cause or good reason. Currently we have non-compete agreements with our officers and other employees. Due to the specialized knowledge that each of our officers possesses with respect to our products and our operations and the limited pool of people with relevant experience in the medical device field, the loss of service of one or more of these individuals could significantly affect our ability to operate and manage our business. The announcement of the loss of one or more of our key personnel could negatively affect our stock price. We depend on our scientific and technical personnel for successful product development and innovation, which are critical to the success of our business. In addition, to succeed in the implementation of our business strategy, our management team must rapidly execute our sales strategy, obtain expanded FDA clearances and approvals, achieve market acceptance for our products and further develop products, while managing anticipated growth by implementing effective planning, manufacturing and operating processes. Managing this growth will require us to attract and retain additional management and technical personnel. Our offices are located in West Chester, Ohio where it can be difficult to attract and retain employees with experience in the medical device industry. We rely primarily on direct sales employees to sell our products in the United States and failure to adequately train them in the use and benefits of our products will prevent us from achieving our market share and revenue growth goals. We have key relationships with doctors that involve procedure, product, market and clinical development. If any of these doctors end their relationship with us, our business could be negatively impacted. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel and doctor relationships necessary to grow and expand our business and operations. If we fail to identify, attract, retain and motivate these highly skilled personnel and doctors, we may be unable to continue our development and sales activities. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could subject us to significant liability. Our manufacturing operations and research and development activities involve the use of biological materials and hazardous substances and are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to the storage, use, discharge, disposal, remediation of, and human exposure to, hazardous substances. Our research and development and manufacturing operations may produce biological waste materials, such as animal tissues and certain chemical waste. These operations are permitted by regulatory authorities and the resultant waste materials are disposed of in material compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with these laws and regulations may be expensive and non-compliance could result in substantial liabilities. In addition, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury to third parties from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed any applicable insurance coverage we may have. In addition, our manufacturing operations may result in the release, discharge, emission or disposal of hazardous substances that could cause us to incur substantial liabilities, including costs for investigation and remediation. 35 Table of Contents Risks Relating To Our Common Stock The price and trading volume of our common stock may experience extreme fluctuations and you could lose some or all of your investment. Because we operate within the medical device segment of the healthcare industry, our stock price is likely to be volatile. The market price of our common stock may have and has had a history of substantial fluctuation due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to: • doctor and patient acceptance of the surgical treatment of AF or reduction in stroke risk using our products; • adverse regulatory developments with respect to our products, such as recalls, new regulatory requirements, changes in regulatory requirements or guidance and timing of regulatory clearances and approvals for new products; • coverage and reimbursement determinations for our products and the related procedures; • the timing of orders received; • delays or interruptions in manufacturing or shipping of our products; • pricing of our products; • media reports, publications and announcements about products or new innovations that could compete with our products or about the medical device product segment in general; • investigations, claims or allegations by regulatory agencies, such as the Department of Justice and Financial Industry Regulatory Authority; • market conditions or trends related to the medical device and healthcare industries or the market in general; • additions to or departures of our key personnel; • disputes, litigation or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; • changes in financial estimates, investors’ perceptions or recommendations by securities analysts; • variations in our quarterly financial and operating results; • failure to achieve or maintain an effective healthcare compliance environment; • changes in accounting principles; and • failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment. These factors, some of which are not within our control, may cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. If our quarterly or annual operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could drop suddenly and significantly. We believe the quarterly and annual comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. The market prices of the securities of medical device companies, particularly companies like ours without consistent product revenue and earnings, have been highly volatile and are likely to remain highly volatile in the future. This volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market prices generally are not sustainable and are highly volatile. In the past, companies that experience volatility in the market price of their securities have often faced securities class action litigation. Whether or not meritorious, litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs, divert our management’s attention and resources and harm our ability to grow our business. 36 Table of Contents The ownership of our common stock is highly concentrated. Your interests may conflict with the interests of our existing stockholders and sales of a significant number of shares may cause our stock price to decline. Our executive officers and directors and their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 30% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2011. Accordingly, these stockholders have significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. The interests of these stockholders may be different than the interests of other stockholders on these matters. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which, in turn, could reduce the price of our common stock. If our common stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, through a registration statement or otherwise, or the market perceives that such sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could decline. Sales of common stock by us in a capital raising transaction may dilute your ownership of common stock and cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. We may need to raise capital in the future to fund our operations or new initiatives. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, our stock price may decline and our existing shareholders may experience significant dilution. Furthermore, we may enter into financing transactions at prices that represent a substantial discount to market price. A negative reaction by investors and securities analysts to any sale of our equity securities could result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and under Delaware law could inhibit a change in control or a change in management that you consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay or prevent a change of control or change in management that would provide you with a premium to the market price of your common stock. These provisions include those: • authorizing the issuance without further approval of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • limiting the ability to remove directors; • limiting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of stockholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law limits business combination transactions with 15% stockholders that have not been approved by our board of directors. These provisions and others could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, or for members of our board of directors to be replaced, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could, in turn, affect any attempt to replace the current management team. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, you may lose an opportunity to realize a premium on your shares of common stock or the market price of our common stock could decline. 37 Table of Contents We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, you must rely on stock appreciation for any return on your investment. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will also depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors and will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Accordingly, you will have to rely on capital appreciation, if any, to earn a return on your investment in our common stock. Furthermore, pursuant to our credit facility, we are currently subject to restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and we may in the future become subject to other contractual restrictions on, or prohibitions against, the payment of dividends. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract management. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”). We are also subject to certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight is required. While the Dodd-Frank Act requires the SEC to adopt certain rules and regulations relating to our public disclosures, corporate governance and executive compensation, among other things, we expect such rules and regulations will require significant attention from management. Compliance with all of these laws, rules and regulations may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 