Item 1A Risk Factors — “Our international business is subject to risk that could adversely affect our profitability and operating results.” Available Information We maintain an Internet site at http://www.cardiacscience.com. We make available free of charge on or through our Internet site, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. We will voluntarily provide electronic or paper copies of our filings free of charge upon request. Our web site and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not incorporated by reference into this report. These reports may also be obtained at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, NE Washington, DC 20549. The SEC also maintains a web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding SEC registrants, including the Company. Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to many laws and governmental regulations and any adverse regulatory action may materially adversely affect our business operations and financial results. Our medical devices are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including the FDA and comparable foreign agencies. To varying degrees, each of these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and distribution of our medical 18 Table of Contents devices. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain marketing clearance from the FDA for our new products, or enhancements or modifications to existing products, and if we do, such approval may: • take a significant amount of time; • require the expenditure of substantial resources; • involve stringent clinical and pre-clinical testing; • involve modifications, repairs or replacements of our products; and • result in limitations on the proposed uses of our products. Both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under FDA regulations. If the FDA were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the FDA could ban such medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such devices and require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. The FDA may also impose operating restrictions, enjoin and restrain certain violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices and assess civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees, or us. The FDA may also recommend prosecution to the Department of Justice. Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively marketing and selling our products. Foreign governmental regulations have become increasingly stringent, and we may become subject to more rigorous regulation by foreign governmental authorities in the future. Penalties for a company’s noncompliance with foreign governmental regulation could be severe, including revocation or suspension of a company’s business license and criminal sanctions. Any domestic or foreign governmental law or regulation imposed in the future may have a material adverse effect on us. We face numerous challenges in implementing a field initiative to address the component issue that led to our AED ship-hold in late June 2009 and our business, financial position and results of operations may be negatively impacted by the costs and other commitments needed to carry out the initiative. In late June 2009, we voluntarily ceased shipments of certain of our AED products due to two instances we became aware of involving the failure of our AEDs to deliver therapy, apparently as a consequence of a malfunction of one of the components used in the manufacture of the affected AED. On August 10, 2009, we resumed production and shipments of the affected AED products after implementing a more stringent process to test for defects in the component at issue. As a result of a thorough review and analysis performed during the third quarter of 2009, we determined that the component at issue has the potential to fail and that routine self-tests performed by the AED may not detect a malfunctioning component. We also determined that approximately 300,000 AEDs shipped between June 2003 and June 2009 are potentially impacted by the component issue. Although we determined that the probability that an AED would fail to deliver therapy as a result of a malfunction of the component issue was low, we decided to implement a field corrective action to enhance the reliability of the affected AED units in the field. We publicly announced our proposed corrective action to address this component issue in November 2009. Our proposed voluntary corrective action is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including the following: • since we have no experience designing and carrying out a field initiative or other corrective action plan of the magnitude under contemplation, we are likely to encounter challenges that could cause a delay in the implementation of the field initiative or negatively impact its effectiveness; • the actual costs to implement the proposed field initiative could exceed the $18.5 million estimate taken as a charge in the third quarter of 2009 due to a variety of factors, including the number of impacted devices, the customer and geographical segments related to the impacted devices, the logistical processes we employ to carry out any field upgrades involved in the initiative, the customer response rate in implementing any field upgrades involved in the process and the level of required follow up with customers, the extent to which we may rely on third parties to carry out the field initiative and associated costs, and the length of time and other 19 Table of Contents resources required to complete the field initiative, among others, see Note 2 — Corrective Action Liabilities to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for further discussion on this matter; • implementation of the proposed field initiative, as well as attendant publicity, may create a negative perception of our AED products in the market, leading to a decline in sales that could materially adversely impact our financial position and results of operations; • we will need to devote technical, management, logistics and other resources to the implementation of the proposed field initiative, which could detract from our ability to operate our core business and hinder our ability to carry out initiatives relating to new products or product enhancements; • despite implementation of the field initiative, some devices may still fail at a time when they are being used to deliver therapy, which could lead to product liability claims against us that, if successful, could adversely impact our financial position and results of operations or negatively impact the market’s perception of our products; • the plan will require the expenditure of significant amounts of cash which, in combination with expected operating losses in 2010, may negatively impact our liquidity or at least constrain our ability to pursue strategic initiatives such as acquisitions, new product development, or other growth initiatives; and Moreover, in February 2010, we received a warning letter from the FDA noting, among other things, that the proposed field corrective action is inadequate since it is intended to improve the products’ ability to detect the potential component problem, but is not designed to prevent component failure. The FDA letter also asserts other inadequacies, including our procedures relating to the evaluation, investigation and follow up of complaints, procedures to verify the effectiveness of corrective and preventative actions and procedures relating to certain design requirements. We are in ongoing discussions with the FDA regarding these issues. If we are unable to correct the inadequacies asserted in the FDA’s letter or otherwise satisfy the FDA’s concerns, we may be subject to regulatory action by the FDA, including seizure, injunction and/or civil monetary penalties. Any such actions could significantly disrupt our ongoing business and operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. We face numerous challenges in implementing a recall announced on February 3, 2010, and our business, financial position and results of operations may be negatively impacted by the costs and other commitments needed to carry out the recall and correct the product issue. On February 3, 2010, we announced a worldwide voluntary recall after determining that approximately 12,200 automated external defibrillators (AEDs) manufactured or serviced between October 19, 2009 and January 15, 2010 may not be able to deliver therapy during a resuscitation attempt, which may lead to serious adverse events or death. These AEDs were manufactured in a way that makes them potentially susceptible to failure under certain conditions. In connection with the corrective action, we intend to replace all affected AEDs at no charge to the customer. We recorded a charge of $2.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2009, reflecting our current estimate of the expected costs relating to this action. Actual costs may vary based on a variety of factors. Cash expenditures relating to replacement of the affected AEDs will occur primarily in the first half of 2010. See Note 2 — Corrective Action Liabilities to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for further discussion on this matter. This recall, and the estimated costs, are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including the following: • we may encounter challenges that could cause a delay in the implementation of the recall or manufacture of replacement units; • the actual costs to implement the recall may exceed the $2.5 million charge taken in the fourth quarter of 2009 due to a variety of factors, including the number of impacted devices, the customer and geographical segments related to the impacted devices, the logistical processes we employ to carry out the recall, the customer response rate and customer cooperation and the level of required follow up with customers, the extent to which we may rely on third parties to assist and associated costs, and the length of time and other resources required to complete the field initiative, among others; 20 Table of Contents • implementation of the recall, as well as attendant publicity, may create a negative perception of our AED products in the market, leading to a decline in sales that could materially adversely impact our financial position and results of operations; • we will need to devote technical, management, logistics and other resources to the implementation of the recall, which could detract from our ability to operate our core business and hinder our ability to carry out initiatives relating to new products or product enhancements; • despite implementation of the recall, some devices may still fail at a time when they are being used to deliver therapy, which could lead to product liability claims against us that, if successful, could adversely impact our financial position and results of operations or negatively impact the market’s perception of our products; • the recall will require the expenditure of significant amounts of cash which, in combination with expected operating losses in 2010, may negatively impact our liquidity or at least constrain our ability to pursue strategic initiatives such as acquisitions, new product development, or other growth initiatives; and • the FDA may require us to implement a more costly corrective action plan or recall, or require us to stop shipments of our AEDs for a period of time, if it does not concur with our proposed corrective action plan, including changes to our manufacturing process, in which case our business could be subject to severe disruption and the cost involved could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our cash and cash equivalents may not be sufficient to fund future operations and we may not be able to secure additional sources of financing or obtain financing on acceptable terms. Our cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2009, totaled $26.9 million. We expect to incur operating losses in 2010 and to use cash in operations. Additionally, we have recently initiated two voluntary corrective actions relating to our AED products, the costs of which have been estimated at $21.0 million, of which $15.2 million remains as an accrued liability as of December 31, 2009. We expect to spend substantially all of the remained accrued costs associated with these corrective actions during 2010 which will negatively impact our cash position. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to fund our anticipated operating losses, meet working capital requirements and fund anticipated capital expenditures needs and other obligations, including the remaining estimated costs of the ongoing corrective actions, through at least December 31, 2010. However, we cannot be certain our cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our operating needs in 2010 as we may be affected by economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors beyond our control. Accordingly, we may be required to reduce costs, which could adversely impact our forecasts for revenue growth in future periods which in turn could also adversely impact our forecasts for cash and cash equivalents throughout the year. Additionally, we may be forced to borrow or obtain additional sources of financing in order to sustain our operations. Our current line of credit agreement with Silicon Valley Bank will expire in March 2010. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in securing a renewed line of credit with Silicon Valley Bank and, if not, we may be required to seek alternative sources of financing that may be more expensive and have more restrictive covenants and conditions. As such, we may not be able to obtain any additional financing, or may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. We may be required to implement other costly product recalls or corrective actions. In the event that any of our products prove to be defective or deficient, we can voluntarily recall or otherwise take corrective action, or the FDA could require us to redesign or implement a recall of or take other action regarding, any of our products. Should we be required or choose to implement any additional recalls or corrective actions in future periods, we could incur substantial costs as well as face significant adverse publicity or regulatory consequences, which could harm our business, including our ability to market our products in the future. The financial impact of a recall could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Quality problems with our processes, goods and services could harm our reputation for producing high quality products and erode our competitive advantage. Quality is extremely important to us and our customers due to the serious and costly consequences of product failure. Our quality certifications are critical to the marketing success of our goods and services. If we fail to meet these standards our reputation could be damaged, we could lose customers and our revenue could decline. Aside from specific customer standards, our success depends generally on our ability to manufacture to exact tolerances, precision engineered components, subassemblies and finished devices from multiple materials. If our components fail to meet these standards or fail to adapt to evolving standards, our reputation as a manufacturer of high quality components will be harmed, our competitive advantage could be damaged, and we could lose customers and market share. For example, the component issues that led to the field corrective action we announced in November, 2009 and the recall we announced in February, 2010 may lead to reduced demand for our AED products. Warranty and product liability claims could adversely impact our earnings and reputation. The manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical devices expose us to the risk of warranty claims, product liability claims or product recalls. We are, from time to time, subject to warranty claims with regard to product performance, which expose us to unexpected repair and replacement costs. In addition, component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information with respect to products we manufacture or sell could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient. The occurrence of such a problem could result in product liability claims, product recalls or a safety alert relating to one or more of our products. Although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage may not be adequate or may not be available at affordable rates. Warranty claims, product liability claims or product recalls in the future, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers for our products. Our business may be adversely affected by deteriorating economic conditions. Economic conditions in both the United States and other countries in which we sell our products have deteriorated significantly in recent years and may continue to deteriorate in the foreseeable future. If economic conditions in the markets in which we operate continue to deteriorate, it may result in declining demand for our products and services, longer sales cycles, increased order cancellations and declining pricing due to customers’ reduced capital budgets, difficulties encountered in securing financing needed to purchase our products, or other factors. Moreover, such conditions may result in increased excess or obsolete inventories and difficulties collecting customer receivables. All of these factors could materially adversely affect our future operating results and financial condition. We rely significantly on our distributors and strategic selling alliances to generate sales of our products; if we do not maintain our relationships with these parties or they fail to successfully distribute our products, our sales and operating results will likely suffer. In the U.S. and abroad, we sell many of our products through distributors, strategic selling alliances and other third party organizations. Generally, we have little or no control over these sales processes, and in many cases our contracts are short-term or may be terminated on little or no notice. If any of our key distributor agreements or selling alliance agreements are cancelled or if we are unable to renew them as they expire, or if our distributors or selling alliances fail to develop relationships with important target customers, our sales and operating results may suffer materially. On June 15, 2009, we notified Nihon Kohden Corporation, our distributor of AEDs in Japan, that our OEM Supply and Purchase Agreement dated effective as of January 1, 2008 will terminate effective June 15, 2010. Under our agreement with Nihon Kohden, Nihon Kohden has had the exclusive right in Japan to distribute a Nihon Kohden-branded version of our AED product (model “9231”) designed for the Japanese market, as well as certain related consumables. Because Nihon Kohden has decided to build and market its own AED products, we elected to terminate the agreement in order to explore alternative means of distributing our AED products in Japan. In 2009, the percentage of our net sales from the Japanese market decreased from 19% in 2008 to 7%. If our efforts to 22 Table of Contents establish alternative distribution arrangements for our AED products in Japan, our operating results may be adversely affected. Moreover, the introduction of Nihon Kohden’s own AED products may further erode sales of our products in Japan. We are dependent upon licensed and purchased technology for some of our products, and we may not be able to renew these licenses or purchase agreements in the future. We license and purchase technology from third parties for features in some of our products. We anticipate that we will need to license and purchase additional technology to remain competitive. We may not be able to renew existing licenses and purchase agreements or to license and purchase other technologies on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to renew existing licenses and purchase agreements or to license or purchase new technologies, we may not be able to offer competitive products, which could negatively impact our revenues. Our international business is subject to risks that could adversely affect our profitability and operating results. Our international operations, which accounted for 33% of our revenues in 2009, are accompanied by certain financial and other risks. In recent years, we have pursued growth opportunities internationally and intend to continue pursuing such opportunities in the future, which could expose us to greater risks associated with international sales and operations. Our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: • changes in foreign medical reimbursement programs and policies; • changes in foreign regulatory requirements; • local product preferences and product requirements; • longer-term receivables than are typical in the U.S.; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • less protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the U.S.; • trade protection measures and import and export licensing requirements; • work force instability; • political and economic instability; • inherent control risks associated with operations based outside the U.S.; and • complex tax and cash management issues. Also, like the U.S., economic conditions in the foreign countries in which we operate have deteriorated significantly in recent years and may continue declining for the foreseeable future. For example, in 2009, sales of our products in Japan accounted for 7% of our net sales, down from 19% in 2008. This reduction in sales in Japan can be attributed in part to weak economic conditions in that market. Economic conditions in Japan are expected to remain weak for the foreseeable future. As a result, our sales in this market may decline, perhaps significantly, during 2010 and beyond. We may also experience declining sales in other international markets due to deteriorating economic conditions. Our business is subject to intense competition, which may reduce the demand for our products. The cardiac monitoring and defibrillation markets are highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. Some of our competitors are larger companies, such as General Electric Company, Medtronic 23 Table of Contents Emergency Response Systems, a unit of Medtronic, Inc., and Philips Medical Systems, a unit of Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V., who may have: • greater financial and technical resources; • greater variety of products; • greater product pricing, discounting and bundling flexibility; • patent portfolios that may present an obstacle to our conduct of business; • stronger brand recognition and marketing resources; and • larger distribution and sales networks. In addition, the timing of the introduction of competing products into the market could affect the market acceptance and market share of our products. If we are unable to develop competitive products that obtain market acceptance, our revenues and financial results may suffer. We may be unable to increase sales of our cardiac monitoring products and services, which could cause our stock price to decrease. The market for cardiac monitoring products and services is generally mature and stable. However, our 2009 revenues from products and services in this market decreased 15.3% from 2008. Our ability to revitalize this line of products and services depends on our restructuring efforts, the development and commercialization of competitive new products and service offerings, and our success in increasing sales and gaining market share from our competitors. Current economic conditions may provide particular challenges to our efforts to revitalize this line. If we are unsuccessful in these efforts, our sales revenues from this line of products and services may decrease, our financial results may suffer, and our stock price may decline. Our financial results could be impacted by the credit risk of our customers. We have exposure to the credit risks of some of our customers. Although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing our credit risks adequately. We monitor individual payment capability in granting credit arrangements, seek to limit the total credit to amounts we believe our customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for potential losses. If there is a deterioration of a major customer’s creditworthiness or actual defaults are higher than expected, future resulting losses, if incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. These risks may become more pronounced if economic conditions continue to deteriorate. Our stock price is volatile, and you may not be able to sell your shares for a profit. The trading price of our common stock is volatile. Our common stock price could be subject to fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including: • actual or anticipated variations in operating results; • changes in our business, operations, or prospects; • product issues necessitating recalls or other corrective actions and related regulatory actions; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • conditions or trends in medical devices and diagnostic cardiology products markets; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant customer wins or losses, gains or losses of distributors, technological innovations, new products or services; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; 24 Table of Contents • additions or departures of key personnel; • sales of a large number of shares of our common stock; • adverse litigation; • unfavorable legislative or regulatory decisions; and • general market conditions. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the target of securities class action litigation. We may become the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert management attention, which could seriously harm our business. We were not profitable in 2008 or 2009 and we may be unable to return to profitability in the future, which could result in a decline in our stock price. We had a net loss of $77.0 million in 2009 due largely to a non cash charge of approximately $42.2 million related to a valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets as well as costs totaling $21.0 million related to two separate voluntary corrective actions which we announced between November 2009 and February 2010. In 2008, we had a net loss $98.4 million due to a pre tax, non cash impairment charge related to goodwill of $107.7 million. We had net income of $8.5 million in 2007. Although we expect to become profitable again in future periods, our ability to return to profitability will depend on our ability to increase our revenues and manage our expenses. In order to generate additional revenues, we will need to continue developing and offering competitive products and services, maintain our sales and distribution network and expand our customer base. Our ability to increase revenues may be impacted by current economic conditions and other factors, such as the impact on customer demand from product quality issues and related corrective actions that we have announced in the last several months. Also, we will need to manage costs associated product development and marketing, protecting our intellectual property, and handling product quality issues and related corrective actions. We may be unable to accomplish some, or any, of these goals because of the risks identified in this report or for other unforeseen reasons. If we are unable to attain profitability in the future, our stock price could decline. Our business may be adversely affected by restructurings. On January 14, 2009, we announced a restructuring involving a 12% reduction in our staff, and have had subsequent restructurings and reductions. The reductions primarily affected customer service, product development and manufacturing. Implementation of past restructurings and reductions, as well as any future restructurings or reductions, may adversely affect the effectiveness of the functional areas impacted by the staff reductions, as well as adversely impact our relationships with customers and suppliers. The costs of implementing past and future restructurings and reductions may adversely affect our results of operations. Finally, past or future restructuring may not result in all of the cost savings and operational and strategic benefits that we anticipate. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are unpredictable and may vary significantly. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have varied in the past and our quarterly revenues and operating results may continue to vary in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Factors contributing to these fluctuations may include: • effects of domestic and foreign economic conditions on our industry and/or customers, which conditions have significantly deteriorated in the last year and are expected to continue to decline for the foreseeable future; • the impact of a ship-hold, recalls or other corrective actions, or regulatory actions resulting from quality concerns relating to our products; • the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, and other significant corporate events; 25 Table of Contents • changes in our ability to obtain products and product components that are manufactured for us by third parties; • delays in the development or commercial introduction of new versions of products; • the ability to attain and maintain production volumes and quality levels for our products and product components; • the impact of a ship-hold on any of our products due to quality control concerns; • changes in the demand for our products; • varying sales cycles that can take up to a year or more; • changes in the mix of products we sell, which could affect our revenue levels as well as our gross margins; • unpredictable budgeting cycles of our customers; • delays in obtaining regulatory clearance for new versions of our products; • increased product and price competition; • the impact of regulatory changes on the availability of third-party reimbursement to customers of our products; • the loss of key personnel; • the loss of key distributors or distribution companies; • seasonality in the sales of our products; • the impact of longer buying cycles; and • the impact of employee turnover. Historically, our quarterly financial results have often been impacted by the receipt of a large number of customer orders in the last weeks of a quarter. If these orders are delayed to the following quarter or canceled, our sales could fall short of our targets and our stock price could decline. Due to the factors summarized above, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of future performance and should not be relied upon to predict future operating results. If we are unsuccessful in developing and commercializing new versions of our products, our operating results will suffer. To be successful, we must develop and commercialize new versions of our products for both domestic and international markets. Our products must keep pace with rapid industry change, comply with rapidly evolving industry standards and government regulations and compete effectively with new product introductions of our competitors. Because our products are technologically complex, developing new products requires extensive design, development and testing at the technological, product and manufacturing stages. To successfully develop and commercialize new versions of our products, we need to: • accurately assess and provide compelling solutions to customer needs; • develop products that are functional and easy to use; • quickly and cost-effectively obtain regulatory clearance or approval; • price competitively; • manufacture and deliver on time; • control costs associated with manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance; • manage customer acceptance and payment; 26 Table of Contents • limit demands by our customers for retrofits; • access new interface standards needed for product connectivity; • anticipate and meet demands of our international customers for products featuring local language capabilities; and • anticipate and compete effectively with our competitors’ efforts. Our failure to accomplish any of these items, or others involved in developing and commercializing new products, could delay or prevent the release of new products. These difficulties and delays could cause our development expenses to increase and harm our financial and operating results. Interruption or cancellation of supply, and our inability to secure alternative suppliers on a timely basis, would likely harm our ability to ship products to our customers, decrease our revenues and increase our costs. If our suppliers reduce, delay or discontinue production of component parts for our products, we will be forced to seek replacement parts from alternative sources. We purchase many of the components and raw materials used in manufacturing our products from numerous suppliers in various countries. Generally we have been able to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials and components. In some cases, for reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness or availability, we procure certain components and raw materials only from a sole supplier. While we work closely with our suppliers to try to ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability, we cannot guarantee that our supplies will be uninterrupted. In addition, due to the stringent regulations and requirements of the FDA regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. A reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could result in significant delays or cancellations of product shipments and the need to modify our products to utilize available components. This could result in reduced revenues, higher costs or both. Inadequate levels of reimbursement from governmental or other third-party payers for procedures using our products may cause revenues to decrease. Healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. Federal, state and local governments have adopted a number of healthcare policies intended to curb rising healthcare costs. There have been and may continue to be proposals by legislators, regulators and third-party payers to keep these costs down. Certain proposals, if passed, could impose limitations on the prices we will be able to charge for our products, or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products from governmental agencies or third-party payers. These limitations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. In the U.S., healthcare providers that purchase certain of our products often rely on governmental and other third-party payers, such as federal Medicare, state Medicaid, and private health insurance plans to pay for all or a portion of the cost of the procedures that utilize those products. The availability of this reimbursement affects customers’ decisions to purchase capital equipment. Denial of coverage or reductions in levels of reimbursement for procedures performed using our products by governmental or other third-party payers would cause our revenues to decrease. If we do not maintain or grow revenues from our support services or consumables, our operating and financial results may be negatively impacted. A significant portion of our revenues is generated from post-sale support services we provide for our products and from the sale of ancillary cardiology products and consumables related to our products, such as patented electrodes, pads, cables, leads, and thermal chart paper. As hospitals expand their in-house capabilities to service diagnostic equipment and systems, they may be able to service our products without additional support from us. In addition, our customers may express an increasing preference for ancillary cardiology products and consumables that are manufactured or provided by other vendors. Any of these events could result in a decline in our revenues and adversely affect our financial and operating results. 27 Table of Contents Our lack of customer purchase contracts and our limited order backlog make it difficult to predict sales and plan manufacturing requirements, which can lead to lower revenues, higher expenses and reduced margins. Our customers typically order products on a purchase order basis, and we do not generally have long-term purchase contracts. In limited circumstances, customer orders may be cancelled, changed or delayed on short notice. Lack of significant order backlog makes it difficult for us to forecast future sales with certainty. Long and varying sales cycles with our customers make it difficult to accurately forecast component and product requirements. These factors expose us to a number of risks: • if we overestimate our requirements we may be obligated to purchase more components or third-party products than is required; • if we underestimate our requirements, our third-party manufacturers and suppliers may have an inadequate product or product component inventory, which could interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays or cancellations in shipments and loss of revenues; • we may also experience shortages of product components from time to time, which also could delay the manufacturing of our products; and • over or under production can lead to higher expense, lower than anticipated revenues, and reduced margins. If market conditions cause us to reduce the selling price of our products, or our market share is negatively affected by the activities of our competitors, our margins and operating results will decrease. The selling price of our products and our market share are subject to market conditions. Major shifts in industry market share have occurred in connection with product problems, physician advisories and safety alerts, reflecting the importance of product quality in the medical device industry. Many healthcare industry companies, including medical device companies, are consolidating to create new companies with greater market power. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and services to industry participants will become more intense. These industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price concessions or reductions for medical devices that incorporate components produced by us. We may experience decreasing prices for the goods and services we offer due to pricing pressure experienced by our customers from managed care organizations and other third-party payers; increased market power of our customers as the medical device industry consolidates; and increased competition among medical engineering and manufacturing services providers. If the prices for our goods and services decrease and we are unable to reduce our expenses, we may lose market share and our results of operations will be adversely affected. If we are unable to retain our executive officers and hire and retain other key personnel, we may not be able to sustain or grow our business. Our success is dependent in large part on the continued employment and performance of key executive, managerial, sales and technical personnel and our ability to attract and retain additional highly qualified personnel. We compete for key personnel with other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. Our ability to maintain and expand our business may be impaired if we are unable to retain our key personnel, hire or retain other qualified personnel in the future, or if our key personnel decide to join a competitor or otherwise compete with us. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights may cause our expenses to increase and our business to suffer. Our success depends in part on obtaining, maintaining, and enforcing our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights, and our ability to avoid infringing the proprietary rights of others. We take precautionary steps to protect our technological advantages and intellectual property rights and rely, in part, on patent, trade secret, copyright, know-how, trademark laws, license agreements and contractual provisions to establish our intellectual property rights and protect our products. We require our new employees, consultants, and corporate partners to execute confidentiality agreements at the commencement of their employment or consulting relationship with us. 28 Table of Contents However, these agreements may be breached or, in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure, they may not provide adequate remedies. While we intend to defend against any threats to our intellectual property, there can be no assurance that these patents, trade secrets or other agreements will adequately protect our intellectual property. In addition, the validity and breadth of claims covered in medical technology patents involve complex legal and factual questions and are often highly uncertain. There can also be no assurance that pending patent applications owned by us will result in patents to be issued to us, that patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors or that such patents will be found to be valid or sufficiently broad to protect our technology or to provide us with any competitive advantage. Third parties could also obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and there can be no assurance that the required licenses would be available on reasonable terms or at all. In some cases, we rely upon trade secrets instead of patents to protect our proprietary technology. Others may independently develop or otherwise acquire substantially equivalent know-how, or gain access to and disclose our proprietary technology. If we are not able to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, our product offerings may lose their competitive edge, which would negatively impact our revenues. Additionally, third parties may assert intellectual property claims and related claims against the Company, whether through civil litigation, administrative proceedings, or otherwise, in the United States or abroad, which may result in a narrowing or invalidation of our intellectual property rights or freedom to operate, significant damage awards and costs of litigation or other legal proceedings, injunctive relief against us, the necessity of costly or disadvantageous licenses, and may be disruptive to our business operations. Our technology may become obsolete, which would negatively impact our ability to sell our products. The medical equipment and healthcare industries are characterized by extensive research and rapid technological change. The development by others of new or improved products, processes, or technologies may make our products obsolete or less competitive. Accordingly, we plan to devote continued resources, to the extent available, to further develop and enhance existing products and to develop new products. If these efforts are not successful, we may not be able to meet our financial goals and our stock price may suffer. Our reliance on a principal manufacturing facility may impair our ability to respond to natural disasters or other unforeseen catastrophic events. We manufacture substantially all of our products in one principal manufacturing facility, located in a single building in Deerfield, Wisconsin. Despite precautions taken by us, a natural disaster or other unanticipated catastrophic events at this building could significantly impair our ability to manufacture our products and operate our business. Our facility and certain manufacturing equipment located in that facility would be difficult to replace and could require substantial replacement lead-time. Catastrophic events may also destroy any inventory of product or components located in our facility. While we carry insurance for natural disasters and business interruption, the occurrence of such an event could result in losses that exceed the amount of this insurance coverage, which would impair our financial results. We may make future acquisitions, which involve numerous risks that could impact our business and results of operations. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to selectively acquire other businesses, product lines, assets, or technologies, which are complementary to our product offerings. Successful execution of our acquisition strategy depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, and products of the acquired companies; • the risk of diverting management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development; 29 Table of Contents • risks of entering markets in which we have no, or limited, direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; • initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners; • insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; • the risk that acquired lines of business may reduce or replace the sales of existing products; and • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. Future acquisitions may not be successful and, if we are unable to effectively manage the risks described above, our business, operating results or financial condition may be negatively affected. We may need additional capital to continue our acquisition growth strategy. Successful continued execution of our acquisition strategy may also depend upon our ability to obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing. We likely would require additional debt or equity financing to make any further significant acquisitions. Such financing may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us or at all, particularly in light of current adverse conditions in the capital markets. If we are required to incur additional indebtedness to fund acquisitions in the future, our cash flow may be negatively affected by additional debt servicing requirements and the terms of such indebtedness may impose covenants and restrictions that provide us less flexibility in how we operate our business. Fluctuations in our stock price may make it difficult to make acquisitions using our stock as consideration. Moreover, use of our stock to fund acquisitions may have a significant dilutive effect on existing shareholders. Our internal research and product development activities are complemented by acquisitions, investments and alliances. We cannot guarantee that any previous or future acquisitions, investments or alliances will be successful for the purpose of complementing our internal research and product development activities. A component of our growth strategy is to enter into strategic alliances in order to complement and expand our current product and service offerings and distribution. The rapid pace of technological development in the medical industry and the specialized expertise required in different areas of medicine make it difficult for one company alone to develop a broad portfolio of technological solutions. In addition to internally generated growth through our research and development efforts, historically we have relied, and expect to continue to rely, upon acquisitions, investments and alliances to provide us access to new technologies both in areas served by our existing businesses as well as in new areas. We may make future investments where we believe that we can stimulate the development of, or acquire, new technologies and products to further our strategic objectives and strengthen our existing businesses. Investments and alliances in and with medical technology companies are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any of our previous or future acquisitions, investments or alliances will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our consolidated earnings, financial condition or cash flows. Future issuances of our common stock could dilute existing stockholders and cause our stock price to decline. As of December 31, 2009 we have reserved 5,054,144 shares of common stock for issuance under our stock-based compensation plans and arrangements, including pursuant to options that are outstanding or may be granted in the future. Future stock awards under our plans and the issuance of stock upon exercise of options would have a dilutive effect on our stockholders and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our charter documents and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of preferred stock with the designations, rights, and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors, without any further vote or action by our stockholders. In addition, our board of directors is divided into 30 Table of Contents three classes with staggered terms, which makes it difficult for stockholders to change the control of our board. Lastly, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law limits business combination transactions with interested stockholders that have not been previously approved by the issuer’s board of directors. Our board of directors could choose not to negotiate with an acquirer that it did not feel was in our strategic interest. If the acquirer was discouraged from offering to acquire us or prevented from successfully completing a hostile acquisition by the anti-takeover measures described above, our stockholders could lose the opportunity to sell their shares at a favorable price. Realization of our deferred tax assets is uncertain. During 2009, we evaluated our ability to realize our net deferred tax assets, primarily our net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards and determined that the realization of these deferred tax assets is uncertain as of the year ended December 31, 2009. We assessed both positive and negative evidence as well as objective and subjective evidence, including but not limited to such factors as past performance, recent history of operating results on a GAAP basis, recent history of generating taxable income, history of recovering net operating loss carryforwards for tax purposes, and expectations of future taxable income as well as current conditions and issues facing our industry and its customers. Based on our evaluation, we determined it was not more likely than not that we would be able to realize all or a portion of its deferred tax assets and as such, we recorded a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets resulting in a non cash charge to income tax expense of approximately $42.2 million. Our ability to realize these deferred tax assets in the future is dependent upon our ability to generate taxable income. If in future periods we generate taxable income, then the valuation allowance may be released in part, or in total, when it becomes more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized. Changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect our effective income tax rate and profitability. President Obama’s administration has announced several proposals for to reform U.S. tax laws that would fundamentally change how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on their global income. These proposals have been carried forward from proposals which did not pass Congress. Although adjusted since the original proposals, the new proposals include a proposal to defer tax deductions for interest expense allocable to non-U.S. earnings until earnings are repatriated and a proposal to further limit foreign tax credits. In addition, the latest proposals also include taxing currently any excess returns as Subpart F income associated with transfers of intangible assets offshore to a related controlled foreign corporation. These proposals, if passed, would be effective for tax years beginning after 2010. It is unclear whether these proposed tax reforms will be enacted, or, if enacted, what the scope of the reforms will be. Depending on their content, such reforms may have an adverse impact to our worldwide tax expense in future periods. Our future financial results could be adversely impacted by asset impairments. We are required not to amortize goodwill and other intangible assets determined to have indefinite lives, and have established a method of testing these assets for impairment on an annual or on an interim basis if certain events occur or circumstances change that would reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value or if the fair value of intangible assets with indefinite lives falls below their carrying value. We also need to evaluate intangible assets determined to have finite lives for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of the business, or other factors such as a decline in our market value below its book value for an extended period of time. A significant decline in our stock price could require us to evaluate intangible assets for recoverability during the quarter in which the decline occurred. In the case of intangible assets with indefinite lives, we will need to evaluate whether events or circumstances continue to support an indefinite useful life. We will need to evaluate the estimated lives of all intangible assets on an annual basis, including those with indefinite lives, to determine if events and circumstances continue to support an indefinite useful life or the remaining useful life, as applicable, or if a revision in the remaining period of amortization is required. The amount 31 Table of Contents of any such annual or interim impairment charge could be significant, and could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 