ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Recent negative developments in the financial services industry and U.S. and global credit markets may adversely impact our operations and results. Negative developments in the latter half of 2007 and throughout 2008 in the capital markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing into 2009. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, among other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting their loans. The competition for our deposits has increased significantly as a result of liquidity concerns at many of these same institutions. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our financial performance by restricting our operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have negatively affected the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Competition among depository institutions for deposits has increased significantly. Financial institutions have experienced decreased access to deposits and/or borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Liquidity needs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The primary source of our funds is customer deposits and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, they are subject to the ability of borrowers to repay the loans. The ability of borrowers to repay loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in general economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups, reductions in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters and international instability. Additionally, deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, returns available to customers on alternative investments and general economic conditions. Accordingly, we may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. These sources include Federal Home Loan Bank advances and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks. While our management believes that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity demands. We may be required to slow or discontinue loan growth, capital expenditures or other investments or liquidate assets should these sources not be adequate. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. 11 Table of Contents An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and takes a charge against earnings with respect to specific loans when their ultimate collectability is considered questionable. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require us to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, our earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. Our ability to maintain adequate capital may restrict our activities. Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations, so we may at some point need to raise additional capital to support any continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure our shareholders that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to continue our growth could be materially impaired. We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future. Recent insured institution failures, as well as deterioration in banking and economic conditions, have significantly increased FDIC loss provisions, resulting in a decline in the designated reserve ratio to historical lows. The FDIC expects a higher rate of insured institution failures in the next few years compared to recent years. Therefore, thus, the reserve ratio may continue to decline. In addition, EESA temporarily increased the limit on FDIC coverage to $250,000 through December 31, 2009. These developments will cause the premiums assessed to us by the FDIC to increase. Effective April 1, 2009, the FDIC will modify the way its assessment system differentiates risk, making corresponding changes to assessment rates beginning with the second quarter of 2009. Potentially higher FDIC assessment rates and special assessments could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. EESA and ARRA followed, and have been followed by, numerous actions by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Congress, Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the U.S. banking system. These initiatives may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Our issuance of securities to the Treasury may limit our ability to return capital to our shareholders and is dilutive to the holders of our common stock and may result in other restrictions to our operations. In connection with our sale of $30 million of Series A Preferred Stock to the Treasury on December 19, 2008, we also issued to the Treasury a warrant to purchase 461,538 shares of our common stock. The terms of the transaction with the Treasury will result in limitations on our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our shares. Until December 19, 2011 or until the Treasury no longer holds any shares of the Series A Preferred Stock, we will not be able to pay dividends nor repurchase any of our shares without the approval of the Treasury, with limited exceptions. In addition, we will not be able to pay any dividends at all on our common stock unless we are current on our dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. These restrictions, as well as the dilutive impact of the warrant, may have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock and may be dilutive of our earnings per share. In addition, we are required to pay cumulative dividends at a rate of 5% per annum for the first five years, and thereafter at a rate of 9% per annum. Depending on our financial condition at the time, these dividends could have a negative effect on our liquidity. The shares of Series A Preferred Stock will receive preferential treatment in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. The transaction also subjects us to additional executive compensation restrictions. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock may, under certain circumstances, have the right to elect two directors to our board of directors. In the event that we fail to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock for an aggregate of six quarterly dividend periods or more (whether or not consecutive), the authorized number of directors then constituting our board of directors will be increased by two. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, together with the holders of any outstanding parity stock with like voting rights voting as a single class, will then be entitled to elect the two additional members of our board of directors at the next annual meeting (or at a special meeting called for the purpose of electing such directors prior to the next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods have been paid in full. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have limited voting rights. Except as otherwise required by law and in connection with the election of directors to our board of directors in the event that we fail to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock for an aggregate of at least six quarterly dividend periods (whether or not consecutive), holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have limited voting rights. So long as shares of the Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of shareholders required by law or our amended and restated charter, the vote or consent of holders owning at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding is required for (i) any authorization or issuance of shares ranking senior to the Series A Preferred Stock, (2) any amendment to the rights of the Series A Preferred Stock so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting power of the Series A Preferred Stock or (3) consummation of any merger, share exchange or similar transaction unless the shares of Series A Preferred Stock remain outstanding, or if we are not the surviving entity in such transaction, such shares are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity and the shares of Series A Preferred Stock remaining outstanding or such preference securities have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting power as are not materially less favorable to the holders than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting power of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock. Our business is subject to the success of the local economies where we operate. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and new businesses in the Nashville MSA and our other market areas. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. Adverse economic conditions in our specific market areas could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. National market funding outside of the Nashville MSA has different risks. Approximately 31.06% of our loan portfolio is composed of national market funding loans to non-Middle Tennessee businesses referred to us by a small network of equipment vendors and financial service companies. These loans account for approximately 38.74% and 32.72%, respectively, of the increase in total loans at December 31, 2008 and 2007, over the prior year. This lending causes us to have somewhat different risks than those typical for community banks generally. Our loan portfolio is more geographically diverse, and as a result the loan collateral is also more widely dispersed geographically. This may result in longer time periods to locate collateral and higher costs to dispose of collateral in the event that the collateral is used to satisfy the loan obligation. This part of our portfolio also provides geographic risk diversification by reducing the adverse impact of a regional downturn in the economy. 13 Table of Contents Our ability to attract deposits may restrict growth. We derive a substantial portion of our deposits through internet-based wholesale funding alternatives. In the event that we are no longer able to sell our deposits easily to institutional and retail investors, our ability to fund our loan portfolio could be adversely affected. We post rates to an internet-based program that retail and institutional investors nationwide subscribe to in order to invest funds. Our wholesale funding portfolio is therefore geographically dispersed and generally made up of deposits in FDIC insured amounts of $100,000 or less. Changes in monetary policy could adversely affect operating results. Like all regulated financial institutions, we are affected by monetary policies implemented by the Federal Reserve Board and other federal instrumentalities. A primary instrument of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve Board is the restriction or expansion of the money supply through open market operations. This instrument of monetary policy frequently causes volatile fluctuations in interest rates, and it can have a direct, adverse effect on the operating results of financial institutions. Borrowings by the United States government to finance the government debt may also cause fluctuations in interest rates and have similar effects on the operating results of such institutions. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in interest rates may affect our level of interest income, the primary component of our gross revenue, as well as the level of our interest expense. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Accordingly, changes in interest rates could decrease our net interest income. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affects our earnings. We could sustain losses if our asset quality declines. Our earnings are affected by our ability to properly originate, underwrite and service loans. We could sustain losses if we incorrectly assess the creditworthiness of our borrowers or fail to detect or respond to deterioration in asset quality in a timely manner. Problems with asset quality could cause our interest income and net interest margin to decrease and our provision for loan losses to increase, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies including the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC and the TDFI. Our regulatory compliance is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, and interest rates paid on deposits. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and The NASDAQ Stock Market that are applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. As a result, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, greater compliance costs. As a result of the recent global financial crisis, the potential exists for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards to be promulgated, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may adversely affect our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and may adversely impact our financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Holders of our subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders. In 2005 and 2008, we supported our continued growth through the issuance of trust preferred securities from an affiliated special purpose trust and accompanying subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2008, we had outstanding trust preferred securities and accompanying subordinated debentures totaling $23.2 million. Our board of directors may also decide to issue additional tranches of trust preferred securities in the future. We conditionally guarantee payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities. Further, the accompanying subordinated debentures we issued to the trust are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on our subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years (from the date of issuance) during which time we may not pay dividends on our common stock. We rely heavily on the services of key personnel. We depend substantially on the strategies and management services of our executive officers – Arthur F. Helf, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Michael R. Sapp, President, Frank Perez, Chief Financial Officer, and H. Lamar Cox, Chief Administrative Officer. The loss of the services of any of these executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are also dependent on certain other key officers who have important customer relationships or are instrumental to our operations. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management, as well as sales and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Our ability to continue to engage in and grow our national market funding programs depends on stable business relationships. Our ability to continue to grow the national market funding portion of our portfolio is dependent upon our retaining those members of our senior management and those loan officers who have experience and relationships with those equipment vendors and financial services companies who originate the underlying lease transactions. In the event that any of these members of senior management, particularly President Mike Sapp, were to terminate his or her employment with us, or in the event that our relationships with any of these vendor/brokers were to be discontinued, our ability to continue to increase our national market funding portfolio could be adversely affected. We could sustain losses if our asset quality declines. Our earnings are affected by our ability to properly originate, underwrite and service loans. We could sustain losses if we incorrectly assess the creditworthiness of our borrowers or fail to detect or respond to deterioration in asset quality in a timely manner. Problems with asset quality could cause our interest income and net interest margin to decrease and our provision for loan losses to increase, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business strategy includes the continuation of growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if our business strategies are not effectively executed. We intend to continue pursuing a growth strategy for our business through organic growth of the loan portfolio. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties that can be encountered by financial service companies in rapid growth stages, which include the risks associated with the following: · maintaining loan quality; · maintaining adequate management personnel and information systems to oversee such growth; · maintaining adequate control and compliance functions; and · securing capital and liquidity needed to support our anticipated growth. There can be no assurance that we will maintain or achieve deposit levels, loan balances or other operating results necessary to avoid losses or produce profits. Our growth will cause growth in overhead expenses as we routinely add staff. As a result, historical results may not be indicative of future results. Failure to successfully address these issues identified above could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition in our markets from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other community banks and super-regional and national financial institutions that operate in the Nashville MSA and elsewhere. We not only compete with these companies in the Nashville MSA, but also in the regional and national markets in which we engage in our indirect funding programs. Additionally, in the Nashville MSA, we face competition from de novo community banks, including those with senior management who were previously affiliated with other local or regional banks or those controlled by investor groups with strong local business and community ties. These de novo community banks may offer higher deposit rates or lower cost loans in an effort to attract our customers, and may attempt to hire our management and employees. We compete with these other financial institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base in the Nashville MSA from consumers with an existing relationship with other financial institutions and from new residents. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete with an array of financial institutions in the Nashville MSA and regionally and nationally with respect to our indirect funding programs. Material fluctuations in non-interest income may occur. A substantial portion of our non-interest income is derived from the sale of loans, particularly loans generated for our national market funding portfolio. The timing and extent of these loan sales may not be predictable, and could cause material variation in our non-interest income on a quarter to quarter basis. Our ability to declare and pay dividends on our common stock is limited by law and we may be unable to pay future dividends. We derive our income solely from dividends on the shares of common stock of the bank. The bank’s ability to declare and pay dividends to us is limited by its obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other general restrictions on its dividends that are applicable to banks that are regulated by the FDIC and the TDFI. The Federal Reserve Board may also impose restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. In addition, we must make payments on the subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock, and we may not pay dividends while we are deferring interest payments on our trust preferred securities and the related subordinated debentures. As a result, we cannot assure our shareholders that we will declare or pay dividends on shares of our common stock in the future. The success and growth of our business will depend on our ability to adapt to technological changes. The banking industry and the ability to deliver financial services is becoming more dependent on technological advancement, such as the ability to process loan applications over the Internet, accept electronic signatures, provide process status updates instantly and offer on-line banking capabilities and other customer expected conveniences that are cost efficient to our business processes. As these technologies are improved in the future, we may, in order to remain competitive, be required to make significant capital expenditures. Even though our common stock is currently listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, the trading volume of our common stock has been low and the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could depress the price of our common stock. While our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, the trading volume of our common stock is relatively low and we cannot be certain when a more active and liquid trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained. Because of this, our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices or times that they desire. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or availability of shares of our common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We, therefore, can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. 16 Table of Contents We may issue additional common stock or other equity securities in the future which could dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. In order to maintain our capital at desired levels or required regulatory levels, or to fund future growth, our board of directors may decide from time to time to issue additional shares of common stock, or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or representing rights to acquire shares of our common stock. The sale of these securities may significantly dilute our shareholders’ ownership interest as a shareholder and the market price of our common stock. New investors of other equity securities issued by us in the future may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current shareholders which may adversely impact our current shareholders. Our recent results may not be indicative of our future results. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow our business at all. In addition, our recent growth may distort some of our historical financial ratios and statistics. In the future, we may not have the benefit of several recently favorable factors, a strong local business environment, and relationships with an extensive group of equipment vendors and financial services companies. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede or prohibit our ability to grow. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 