Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating To Our Business We expect to derive substantially all of our future revenue from sales of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system. If the AtriCure bipolar ablation system fails to gain or loses market acceptance for the treatment of AF, we may not generate sufficient revenue to continue our operations. 24 Table of Contents Currently, our primary product line is the AtriCure bipolar ablation system, which we commercially introduced in 2002 in the United States and in 2003 outside of the United States. We expect that sales of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system will account for substantially all of our revenue for the foreseeable future and that our future revenue will depend on the acceptance by the medical community of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system as a standard treatment alternative for the surgical treatment of AF during open-heart surgical procedures and as a sole-therapy minimally invasive treatment for AF. Acceptance of our system for the treatment of AF is dependent upon, among other factors, the level of screening for AF and the awareness and education of the medical community about the surgical treatment of AF, in general, and the existence, effectiveness and safety of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system, in particular. Our system and the procedures involved with the treatment of AF using our system are relatively new. We cannot assure you that doctors will continue to use the AtriCure bipolar ablation system or that demand for the surgical treatment of AF will not decline or will increase as quickly as we expect. We may not be able to maintain or increase market acceptance of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system for a number of additional reasons, including: • our inability to promote our system for use on cardiac tissue or for the treatment of AF until we obtain additional FDA approvals or clearances; • our inability to train doctors in the use of our system for the ablation of cardiac tissue or for the treatment of AF until we obtain additional FDA approvals or clearances; • our inability to establish or sustain acceptance of our system within the medical community; • liability risks for doctors and hospitals associated with the off-label use of our system and the use of new technologies or procedures; • findings or perceptions relating to the safety or effectiveness of our system or the safety or effectiveness of the surgical treatment of AF; • medical device reports to the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities, which are required in the event our products malfunction or cause or contribute to a death, serious injury or other adverse event; • publicity concerning our system, competing products or the surgical treatment of AF; • the cost of our system; • the availability of alternative treatments or procedures that may be, or may be perceived as, more effective, safer, faster, easier to use or less costly than our system; and • policies of healthcare payors with respect to coverage and reimbursement. Since we do not believe that doctors are using the AtriCure bipolar ablation system for any purpose other than the surgical treatment of AF, if doctors do not use our system to treat AF, we would lose substantially all of our revenue. Use of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system as a sole-therapy minimally invasive treatment for AF, which is not currently an established market, represents our major growth opportunity. If this market does not develop or our system is not widely adopted for use in this market, it may adversely impact our ability to grow our revenue. We believe that sole-therapy minimally invasive treatment for AF, which is not currently an established market, will ultimately represent the largest segment of the market for the surgical treatment of AF. If this market fails to develop, or if our system is not widely adopted for use in this market, it may adversely impact our ability to grow our revenue. In order to establish the sole-therapy minimally invasive AF treatment market, doctors treating patients with AF who would not otherwise require an open-heart surgical procedure must change their current practice of referring patients to cardiologists and electrophysiologists and instead refer these patients to 25 Table of Contents cardiothoracic surgeons for surgical AF treatment. Doctors may decide not to change their referral patterns for a variety of reasons including, for example, negative publicity relating to our ongoing clinical studies, including publicity focusing on the doctors and institutions carrying out such clinical studies, that limited clinical data is available relating to the safety and effectiveness of our system, that only a limited number of procedures have been performed using our system, that clinical testing of our system is in the feasibility stage, that doctors who refer their patients to cardiothoracic surgeons may risk losing their patients and that doctors may prefer to treat patients using drugs or catheter-based ablation. If doctors do not refer their patients to cardiothoracic surgeons for surgical AF treatment, we will not be able to establish a market for the use of our system for the sole-therapy minimally invasive treatment of AF, and our future growth and revenue will suffer. The failure to educate or train a sufficient number of doctors in the use of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system could reduce the market acceptance of our system and reduce our revenue. It is critical to the success of our sales efforts to ensure that there are a sufficient number of doctors familiar with, trained on and proficient in the use of our system. While we educate and train doctors as to the skills involved in the proper use of our system and technology, we cannot educate or train them to use our system for the ablation of cardiac tissue or the surgical treatment of AF unless and until we obtain additional FDA approvals or clearances. Currently, doctors learn to use our system for the treatment of AF through independent training programs provided by hospitals and universities and through independent peer-to-peer training among doctors. We provide research and educational grants to institutions, some of which are used to fund programs to teach the procedures involved in the surgical treatment of AF, including the use of our system for such treatment. However, while we make doctors generally aware of these programs, these institutions determine the faculty and the content of the programs. We also rely on doctors to independently inform their colleagues about these programs. We cannot assure you that a sufficient number of doctors will become aware of training programs or that doctors will dedicate the time, funds and energy necessary for adequate training in the use of our system. Unless we obtain additional FDA approvals or clearances, we will not be able to promote the AtriCure bipolar ablation system to ablate cardiac tissue or to treat AF and our ability to maintain and grow our business could be harmed. Generally, a medical device company must first obtain either FDA clearance through the submission to the FDA of a 510(k) notification or FDA approval through the submission of a pre-market approval application, or PMA, before a company may market a medical device in the United States. Certain modifications to a previously marketed device, including a proposed new use or new indication for the device, also require the submission to the FDA of either a 510(k) or PMA before such device with the modifications may be marketed. The process of obtaining these clearances and approvals can be lengthy and expensive. The PMA process is more costly, lengthy and uncertain than the 510(k) process and requires that the device be found to be safe and effective and must be supported by extensive data, including data from preclinical studies and human clinical trials. Though less likely, a 510(k) application may require human clinical trials as well. Because we cannot assure you that any new products, or any product enhancements, that we develop will be subject to the shorter 510(k) clearance process, significant delays in the introduction of any new products or product enhancement may occur. We have not received FDA clearance or approval to promote our system for the ablation of cardiac tissue or for the use of our system in the treatment of AF. In December 2004, we submitted a 510(k) notification to obtain clearance for use of our system for the ablation of cardiac tissue, which had previously been sought by us and denied in 2002 and 2003. In June 2005, the FDA denied 510(k) clearance, finding that our system was not substantially equivalent to the already cleared predicate devices relied on in our 510(k) notice. The FDA also noted in its letter that our system has been reclassified as a Class III device. This means that we would now be required to obtain a full PMA, rather than a 510(k), in order to gain FDA approval of our system for the ablation of cardiac tissue. We may appeal the FDA’s decision, but we cannot assure you that the FDA would agree to reverse its decision. If that appeal is not successful, we would not intend to pursue a PMA for the ablation of cardiac tissue using our system. Whether or not the FDA provides clearance for the use of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system to ablate cardiac tissue, we will need to obtain separate approvals from the FDA for use of the 26 Table of Contents AtriCure bipolar ablation system in the treatment of AF as part of an open-heart procedure and as a sole-therapy minimally invasive procedure through the submission of separate PMAs to the FDA. Unless and until we obtain FDA clearance or approval for the use of our system for the ablation of cardiac tissue or for the treatment of AF, we and others acting on our behalf may not promote our system for such uses, make any claim that our system is safe and effective for such uses, or proactively discuss or provide information on the use of our system in connection with such uses. These limitations put us at a disadvantage relative to our competitors who have received clearance or approval to market their products for the ablation of cardiac tissue. We cannot assure you that future clearances or approvals of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system will be granted or that current or future clearances or approvals of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system will not be withdrawn. Failure to obtain a clearance or approval or loss of an existing clearance or approval, could hurt our ability to maintain and grow our business. Unless we are able to complete the clinical trials required to support future submissions to the FDA, and unless the data generated by such trials supports the use of our system for the treatment of AF as safe and effective, we may not be able to secure additional FDA clearances or approvals and our ability to maintain and grow our business could be harmed. In order to obtain FDA approvals to promote the AtriCure bipolar ablation system for AF treatment, we will need to demonstrate in clinical trials that our system is safe and effective for such use. In order to conduct clinical trials, it is necessary to receive an investigational device exemption, or IDE, from the FDA. While we have obtained the required IDE from the FDA for the conduct of clinical trials for the use of our system as a treatment for AF during open-heart surgical procedures, the FDA or institutional review boards, or IRBs, that also oversee the trials for the purpose of protecting the study subjects can halt clinical trials at any time for safety reasons or because we or any of our clinical investigators do not follow the FDA’s requirements for conducting clinical trials. In addition, the FDA may modify its requirements with respect to various aspects of our clinical study, in which case our ongoing clinical trial may not be achievable. Moreover, future clinical trials of our system to treat AF as a sole-therapy minimally invasive procedure will likely proceed in phases beginning with a feasibility trial. The FDA has granted us an IDE to conduct a feasibility study relating to the use of the AtriCure bipolar system for the sole-therapy minimally invasive treatment of AF, but there is no guarantee that the FDA will grant us approval to conduct broader clinical trials. If we are unable to receive approval to conduct broader clinical trials or the trials are halted by the FDA or others, we would not be able to promote the AtriCure bipolar ablation system for use in the treatment of AF in the United States. While we have begun the RESTORE-SR trial, a clinical trial to support the submission of our PMA seeking FDA approval to use the AtriCure bipolar ablation system for the treatment of AF during elective open-heart procedures, enrollment in the trial has been slower than expected. As of February 28, 2006, we had enrolled approximately 23.9% of the treatment patients and approximately 12.8% of the total patients required for this multicenter, 226-patient clinical trial. We cannot assure you that this clinical trial will be completed in a timely manner or successfully or that the results obtained will be acceptable to the FDA. We have begun the RESTORE-SR II study, a clinical study to evaluate the feasibility of using our system as a sole-therapy minimally invasive treatment for AF. This feasibility study is expected to enroll 25 patients at 5 leading US centers. A total of 17 patients have been treated in the study as of March 2, 2006 and we anticipate that enrollment and treatment of all 25 patients will be completed during the second quarter of 2006. We cannot assure you that this study or this trial will be completed in a timely manner or successfully or that the results obtained will be acceptable to the FDA. Clinical trials and regulatory approval of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system for treatment of AF can take a number of years to accomplish and require the expenditure of substantial financial, managerial and other resources, and we may never obtain regulatory approval for the use of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system in either an open-heart procedure or a sole-therapy minimally invasive procedure. The FDA may not grant approval to use our system for the treatment of AF in all types of patients that experience AF, if any, or could limit the 27 Table of Contents type of AF that could be treated using our system. If we do not secure required FDA approval to promote the AtriCure bipolar ablation system for either or both types of procedures, our business, results of operations and prospects would be negatively affected as a result. Further, we cannot make comparative claims regarding the use of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system against any alternative treatments without conducting comparative clinical studies, which would be expensive and time consuming. We do not have any current plans to conduct such comparative clinical studies to evaluate the AtriCure bipolar ablation system against any alternative method of treatment. If the available data on the use of our system from clinical trials and marketing experience do not establish the safety or effectiveness of our system, our clinical trials may be halted, our system may be withdrawn from the market and we may be prohibited from further distribution and sale of our system. If the results obtained from our clinical trials, any other clinical studies, or clinical or commercial experience indicate that our system is not safe or effective, or not as safe or effective as other treatment options, the FDA may not approve our system for the treatment of AF, adoption of the use of our system for the treatment of AF may suffer and our business would be harmed. We have experienced and may continue to experience unfavorable publicity relating to our business and our industry. This publicity has had and may continue to have a negative impact on our ability to attract and retain customers, our sales, clinical studies involving our products, our reputation and our stock price. We believe that we are experiencing a negative impact on our business from newspaper articles published in December 2005 and February 2006 relating to, among other things, concerns of conflicts of interest between the Cleveland Clinic and us, our compliance with FDA regulations for medical device reporting, and concerns that certain of our consultants who are involved with clinical studies of our products failed to adequately disclose their financial relationships with us. In the wake of these articles, certain educational activities involving our products at the Cleveland Clinic and the University of Cincinnati were diminished. Although we understand that these educational activities are resuming at the Cleveland Clinic, we cannot assure you that these activities will reach their previous levels. In addition, Dr. Randall Wolf, one of our key consultants who has conducted clinical studies on the use of our system to treat AF and published articles relating to such studies, has reduced his involvement in educational activities at the University of Cincinnati and he is recovering from back surgery. In light of Dr. Wolf’s diminished involvement with educational activities and this unfavorable publicity, we are uncertain as to whether the educational activities involving our products at the University of Cincinnati will resume their previous levels. We also understand that the University of Cincinnati has initiated an internal review to validate the data obtained from two clinical studies involving our system that were conducted by Dr. Wolf. We cannot assure you that this data will be validated and we cannot predict with certainty the effect that any failure to validate this data would have on us. Because these articles relate to the validity of important clinical data on the use of our system and involve Dr. Wolf and two of the pioneering institutions which have been proponents and investigators of our system, some current and potential customers have been and may continue to be reluctant to purchase our system. We also believe that this publicity has had and may continue to have a negative impact on clinical studies involving our products. We cannot assure you that this publicity or similar unfavorable publicity will not adversely impact future clinical studies involving our products or adversely impact our current or future submissions to the FDA. We believe that this publicity has had and may continue to have a negative impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. We also believe that future unfavorable publicity could cause other adverse effects, including a further decline in the price of our stock. We may be subject to fines, penalties, injunctions and other sanctions if we are deemed to be promoting the use of our products for non-FDA-approved, or off-label, uses. Our business and future growth depend on the continued use of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system in the treatment of AF, which is considered an off-label use of our system because the sole indication for which our 28 Table of Contents system has received FDA clearance or approval is the ablation and coagulation of soft tissues during certain non-cardiac-related surgical procedures. Under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and other laws, we are prohibited from promoting our products, including our system, for off-label uses. This means that we may not make claims about the safety or effectiveness of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system for the ablation of cardiac tissue or the treatment of AF and may not proactively discuss or provide information on the use of our system for the treatment of AF, except in certain limited scientific and other settings. Due to these legal constraints, our sales and marketing efforts focus only on the general technical attributes and benefits of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system and not on the use of our system for AF treatment or other cardiac uses. At the same time, we provide certain support for the use of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system in the treatment of AF that we believe is non-promotional and therefore permitted. In particular, since our system is only being used by doctors for the treatment of AF, we train our sales force on the use of our system by cardiothoracic surgeons to treat AF, and off-label sales are included in our sales force compensation structure. Sales personnel call on cardiothoracic surgeons, electrophysiologists, and other doctors to discuss the general attributes of our system and respond in a non-promotional manner to unsolicited requests for information from doctors on the use of our system in the treatment of AF by providing copies of and citations to peer-reviewed journal articles and/or other training and instructional tools. In addition, medically trained clinical application specialists attend surgical procedures to discuss the general attributes of our system and respond to unsolicited requests for information on the use of our system for the treatment of AF. We have entered into consulting agreements with prominent cardiothoracic surgeons and electrophysiologists who assist us with, among other things, product development and clinical development. In addition, we provide financial support in the form of research and educational grants to several leading institutions in the cardiac field, which they may use to conduct physician training programs, including programs relating to the surgical treatment of AF using our system. We also provide some guidance to physicians and medical institutions regarding what physicians are available and qualified for training other physicians on the use of our system in the treatment of AF. We also continue to make improvements in our system which could be viewed as supporting the ablation of cardiac tissue and the treatment of AF. There is a material risk that the FDA or other federal or state law enforcement authorities could determine that the nature and scope of these activities constitute the promotion of our system for a non-FDA-approved use in violation of the law. We also face the risk that FDA or other regulatory authorities might pursue enforcement based on past activities that we have discontinued or changed, including sales activities, arrangements with institutions and doctors, educational and training programs and other activities. Government investigations concerning the promotion of off-label uses and related issues are typically expensive, disruptive and burdensome and generate negative publicity. If our promotional activities are found to be in violation of the law or if we agree to a settlement in connection with an enforcement action, we would likely face significant fines and penalties and would likely be required to change substantially our sales, promotion, grant and educational activities. For example, in November 2004, we received a letter from the FDA relating to certain cardiac-related information on our website in connection with the AtriCure bipolar ablation system, which we subsequently removed. There is also a possibility that we could be enjoined from making sales of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system for any non-FDA-approved use, which effectively would bar all sales of our system until we receive FDA clearances or approval, if ever. In addition, as a result of enforcement actions against us or our senior officers, we could be excluded from participation in government healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. The use of products we sell may result in injuries or other adverse events that lead to product liability suits, which could be costly to our business or our customers’ business. The use of products we sell may result in a variety of serious complications, including damage to the heart, internal bleeding, death, or other adverse events, potentially leading to product liability claims. Serious complications, including death, have been encountered in connection with the surgical treatment of AF, including in connection with a limited number of sole-therapy minimally invasive procedures in which our system was 29 Table of Contents used. Although our manufacturing processes and those of our suppliers are required to comply with the FDA’s quality system regulations, or QSR, covering the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our products, if products we sell are defectively designed, manufactured or labeled, contain inadequate warnings, contain defective components or are misused, we may become subject to costly litigation by our customers or their patients. We carry product liability insurance that is limited in scope and amount and may not be adequate to fully protect us against product liability claims. We could be required to pay damages that exceed our insurance coverage. Any product liability claim, with or without merit, could result in an increase in our product liability insurance rates or our inability to secure coverage on reasonable terms, if at all. Even in the absence of a claim, our insurance rates may rise in the future. Any product liability claim, even a meritless or unsuccessful one, would be time consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of our management’s attention from our business and result in adverse publicity, withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers, injury to our reputation and loss of revenue. Any of these events could negatively affect our earnings and financial condition. Our current inability to educate or train doctors in the use of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system for the treatment of AF, due to legal prohibitions on off-label promotion of medical devices, could result in injuries to patients or other adverse events that lead to litigation against us, which could be costly to our business. Our sales team educates doctors in the technology and general application of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system, but we cannot currently educate or train doctors to use our system for the ablation of cardiac tissue or for the surgical treatment of AF. Hospitals and universities offer independent educational programs for the treatment of AF utilizing the AtriCure bipolar ablation system, and there is independent doctor-to-doctor training to use our system for the treatment of AF. We do not require that doctors who use the AtriCure bipolar ablation system have any specific training in the use of our system. We cannot assure you that doctors utilizing our system are using it correctly. Because we rely on training by hospitals and universities and doctor-to-doctor training, we do not control the quality of the training received by the doctors who use our system. Not requiring training on the use of our system may expose us to greater risk of product liability for injuries occurring during procedures utilizing the AtriCure bipolar ablation system. If demand for the AtriCure bipolar ablation system grows, the increased number of procedures performed using our system may potentially lead to more injuries and an increased risk of product liability. In addition, the off-label use of our system by the doctors may expose us to greater risks relating to product liability claims. Serious complications arising out of surgical procedures for the treatment of AF, including surgical AF treatments involving our system, could harm our business in a variety of important ways. Serious complications, including death, have been encountered in connection with the surgical treatment of AF, including in connection with a limited number of sole-therapy minimally invasive procedures in which our system was used. The rate of serious complications associated with surgical AF treatments in general, or surgical AF treatments involving the use of our system in particular, may be greater than the rate of serious complications associated with alternative therapies for the treatment of AF or AF itself. Adverse outcomes, or the perception that surgical AF treatments, including treatments involving the use of our system, are not safe, could harm our business, including in the following ways: • our system may fail to gain or may lose market acceptance; • the market for the sole-therapy minimally invasive treatment of AF may fail to develop; • the medical community may fail to adopt our system for the sole-therapy minimally invasive treatment of AF; • the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may revoke the clearances or approvals they have granted for the use of our system for the ablation of soft tissue; 30 Table of Contents • the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may refuse, delay or revoke clearances, approvals or clinical trials of our system for the ablation of cardiac tissue or the treatment of AF; and • the FDA or other domestic or foreign regulatory or enforcement authorities may be more likely than otherwise to pursue an action against us for promoting our products for off-label uses. The significance of each of these identified risks is discussed elsewhere under the caption “Risks Relating To Our Business.” Competition from existing and new products and procedures may decrease our market share and cause our revenue to decline. The medical device industry, including the market for the treatment of AF, is highly competitive, subject to rapid technological change and significantly affected by new product introductions and promotional activities of other participants. We cannot assure you that the AtriCure bipolar ablation system will compete effectively against drugs, catheter-based ablation, implantable devices such as pacemakers or defibrillators, other bipolar ablation systems or other surgical AF treatments, which may be more well-established among doctors and hospitals. Many companies are promoting devices for the treatment of AF, and we anticipate that new or existing competitors may develop competing products, procedures or clinical solutions. There are few barriers to prevent new entrants or existing competitors from developing products to compete directly with ours. Some companies also compete with us to attract qualified scientific and technical personnel as well as funding. Our primary competitors include Guidant Corp., Medtronic, Inc., St. Jude Medical Inc., Boston Scientific Corporation, Edwards Lifesciences Corporation and CryoCath Technologies Inc. These companies are larger than us or enjoy competitive advantages, including: • broader product offerings; • established and more comprehensive distribution networks; • less expensive products and procedures that take less time to perform; • greater resources, including financial resources and more extensive experience in product development, manufacturing, regulatory clearance and approval, promotion, distribution and selling and patent litigation; and • established relationships with hospitals, healthcare providers and payors. Some competitors have FDA clearance for the use of their products to ablate cardiac tissue or FDA approval for the use of their products to ablate cardiac tissue during open-heart surgery. Our competitors are currently conducting clinical trials for the use of their products in the treatment of AF, which if successful, may impact the future sales of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system. Furthermore, demand for the AtriCure bipolar ablation system could be diminished by equivalent or superior products and technologies being offered by competitors, including products utilizing bipolar technology which could prove to be more effective, faster, safer or less costly than the AtriCure bipolar ablation system. The introduction of new products, procedures or clinical solutions by competitors may result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share and may render our products obsolete, which could adversely affect our net revenue and future profitability. Our intellectual property rights may not provide meaningful commercial protection for our products, which could enable third parties to use our technology or methods, or very similar technology or methods, and could reduce our ability to compete. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us 31 Table of Contents to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Our patent applications may not issue as patents at all or in a form that will be advantageous to us. Our issued patents and those that may issue in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products. Although we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, we cannot assure you that third parties will not be able to design around our patents or, if they do infringe upon our technology, that we will be successful in or have sufficient resources to pursue a claim of infringement against those third parties. We believe that third parties may have developed or are developing products that could infringe upon our patent rights. Any pursuit of an infringement claim by us may involve substantial expense or diversion of management attention. In addition, although we have entered into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, investigators and advisors, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Foreign countries generally do not allow patents to cover methods for performing surgical procedures. If our intellectual property does not provide significant protection against foreign or domestic competition, our competitors could compete more directly with us, which could result in a decrease in our market share. All of these factors may harm our competitive position. The medical device industry is characterized by patent litigation and any litigation or claim against us may cause us to incur substantial costs, could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our business and harm our reputation. The medical device industry is characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings over patent and other intellectual property rights. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. Any patent dispute, even a meritless or unsuccessful one, would be time consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of our management’s attention from our business and result in adverse publicity, the disruption of development and marketing efforts, injury to our reputation and loss of revenue. Any of these events could negatively affect our earnings and financial condition. Our competitors or others may assert that the AtriCure bipolar ablation system or the methods employed in the use of our system infringe on United States or foreign patents held by them. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that there are numerous issued and pending patents relating to surgical ablation, the surgical treatment of AF and other surgical devices. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that our system may infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are unaware that one or more components of our system may inadvertently infringe. As the number of competitors in the market for the treatment of AF grows, the possibility of inadvertent patent infringement by us or a patent infringement claim against us increases. If a third-party’s patents were upheld as valid and enforceable and we were found to be infringing, we could be prevented from selling the AtriCure bipolar ablation system unless we were able to obtain a license to use technology or ideas covered by such patent or are able to redesign our system to avoid infringement. A license may not be available at all or on terms acceptable to us, and we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid any infringement. Modification of our products or development of new products could require us to conduct additional clinical trials and to revise our filings with the FDA and other regulatory bodies, which would be time-consuming and expensive. If we are not successful in obtaining a license or redesigning our products, we may be unable to sell our products and our business could suffer. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at other medical device companies. Although there are no claims currently pending against us, we may be subject to future claims that these employees, or we, have 32 Table of Contents inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of these former employers. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research or sales personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to improve our products or sell our existing products, which would harm our business. The increase in cost of medical malpractice premiums to doctors and hospitals or the lack of malpractice insurance coverage due to the use of our system by doctors for an off-label indication may cause certain doctors or hospitals to decide not to use our system and may damage our ability to grow and maintain the market for our system. Insurance carriers have been raising premiums charged for medical malpractice insurance due, at least in part, to increased risks associated with off-label procedures, including higher damage awards for successful plaintiffs. Insurance carriers may continue to raise premiums or they may deny malpractice coverage for procedures performed using products such as ours on an off-label basis. If this trend continues or worsens, our revenue may fall as doctors or hospitals decide against purchasing the AtriCure bipolar ablation system due to the cost or unavailability of insurance coverage. We have a limited history of operations and a history of net losses available to common shareholders and we may never become profitable. We have a limited operating history and have incurred net losses each year since our inception, including net losses available to common shareholders of approximately $12.7 million in 2005, approximately $9.5 million in 2004 and approximately $7.1 million in 2003. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $42.3 million. Our net losses available to common shareholders have resulted principally from costs and expenses relating to sales and promotional efforts, research and development, seeking regulatory clearances and approvals, and general operating expenses. We expect to continue to make substantial expenditures and to incur additional operating losses in the future as we expand our sales, manufacturing, marketing and product development activities, increase our administrative staff and further develop and commercialize our products, including completing clinical trials and seeking regulatory clearances and approvals for the AtriCure bipolar ablation system. If sales of our system do not continue to grow as we anticipate, we will not be able to achieve profitability. Our expansion efforts may prove more expensive than we currently anticipate, and we may not succeed in increasing our revenue sufficiently to offset these higher expenses. Our losses have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse impact on our working capital, total assets and shareholders’ deficit and we may never become profitable. Our federal tax net operating loss carryforwards will be limited or lost, resulting in greater income tax expense because we experienced an ownership change of more than 50 percentage points upon the initial public offering of our common stock. In connection with our initial public offering in August 2005, we experienced an ownership change as defined by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 that will limit the availability of our net operating loss carryforwards to offset any future taxable income, which may increase our future income tax expense. Our inability to use these net operating loss carryforwards to reduce taxable income is based on an ownership change of more than 50 percentage points under rules contained in the United States Internal Revenue Code. We had federal income tax net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $23.7 million at December 31, 2005 that, if not utilized to reduce our taxable income, will begin to expire in 2021. 33 Table of Contents Our capital needs after the next 12 months are uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future and such funds may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, will be sufficient to meet our projected capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the revenue generated by sales of our products; • the costs associated with expanding our manufacturing and marketing activities, as well as sales and distribution efforts; • the rate of progress and cost of our research and development activities; • the costs of obtaining and maintaining FDA and other regulatory clearances and approvals of, and intellectual property protection for, our products and products in development; • the effects of competing technological and market developments; and • the number and timing of acquisitions and other strategic transactions. As a result of these factors, we may need to raise additional funds, and we cannot be certain that such funds will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Furthermore, if we issue equity securities to raise additional funds, our existing shareholders may experience dilution, and if we issue equity or debt securities, such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing shareholders. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our future products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to expand our operations, develop new products, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. If we are unable to manage the anticipated growth of our business, our future revenue and operating results may be adversely affected and our growth could be limited. The growth that we have experienced and that we may experience in the future requires us to rapidly expand our sales personnel and manufacturing operations. Our United States sales and training force increased from 10 employees on January 1, 2003 to 51 employees as of December 31, 2005. As a result of the closing of the initial public offering in August 2005, we purchased Enable, the manufacturer of our single-use disposable ablation clamps. As of December 31, 2005, we had a total of 160 employees. Rapid expansion in personnel could result in unanticipated costs and disruptions to our operations. Organizational growth could strain our existing managerial, operational, financial and other resources. We will need to expand our current, or implement new, financial and operating systems, which may be costly and time-consuming. For us to maintain and expand our business successfully, we must manufacture commercial quantities of our system’s components, as well as components for other existing and future products, in compliance with regulatory requirements, including the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, at an acceptable cost and on a timely basis. Our anticipated growth may strain our ability to manufacture an increasingly large variety and supply of our products. Manufacturing facilities often experience difficulties in scaling up production, including problems with production yields and quality control and assurance. If we cannot scale and manage our business or our manufacturing operations appropriately, maintain control over expenses or otherwise adapt to future growth, our growth may be impaired and our future revenue and operating results will suffer. We depend upon single and limited source third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply problems and price fluctuations, which could harm our business. We currently rely on single and limited source third-party vendors for the manufacture of many of the components used in the AtriCure bipolar ablation system. For example, we rely on one vendor to manufacture 34 Table of Contents our ablation sensing unit, or ASU, and we have not been able to identify any alternate supplier to manufacture our ASU if it becomes unable to do so. In addition, in some cases there are relatively few, or no, alternative sources of supply for certain other components that are critical to the AtriCure bipolar ablation system. We also distribute a cryothermy, or extreme cold, ablation device that doctors have used to make specialized lesions in the heart for the treatment of AF in addition to the lesions made by the AtriCure bipolar ablation system, and our inability to offer this device to potential users of our system could negatively affect sales of our system. Our reliance on these outside manufacturers and suppliers also subjects us to risks that could harm our business, including: • we may not be able to obtain adequate supply in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms; • we may have difficulty locating and qualifying alternative suppliers; • switching components may require product redesign and new submissions to the FDA which could significantly delay production or, if the FDA refuses to approve the changes, completely eliminate our ability to manufacture or sell our system; • our suppliers manufacture products for a range of customers, and fluctuations in demand for the products those suppliers manufacture for others may affect their ability to deliver components to us in a timely manner; and • our suppliers may encounter financial hardships unrelated to our demand for components, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet our requirements. Identifying and qualifying additional or replacement suppliers for any of the components used in the AtriCure bipolar ablation system, if required, may not be accomplished quickly or at all and could involve significant additional costs. Any interruption or delay in the supply of components or materials, or our inability to obtain components or materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and cause them to cancel orders or switch to competitive products, and could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. An inability to forecast future revenue or estimated life cycles of products may result in inventory-related charges that would negatively affect our gross margins and results of operations. To mitigate the risk of supply interruptions, we may determine to maintain excess inventory of the products or components supplied to us by third parties. Managing our inventory levels is important to our cash position and results of operations. As we expand, managing our inventory levels becomes more difficult. An excessive amount of inventory reduces our cash available for operations and may result in excess or obsolete materials. Inadequate inventory levels may make it difficult for us to meet customer product demand, resulting in decreased revenue. An inability to forecast future revenue or estimated life cycles of products may result in inventory-related charges that would negatively affect our gross margins and results of operations. If we or our third party vendors fail to comply with extensive FDA regulations relating to the manufacturing of our product or any component part, we may be subject to fines, injunctions and penalties, and our ability to commercially distribute and sell our products may be hurt. Our manufacturing facility and the manufacturing facility of any of our third-party component manufacturers, critical suppliers or third-party sterilization facility are required to comply with the FDA’s quality systems regulations, or QSR, which sets forth minimum standards for the procedures, execution and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our systems. The FDA may enforce its QSR, among other ways, through periodic unannounced inspections. If our manufacturing facility or the manufacturing facility of any of our third-party component manufacturers, critical suppliers or third-party sterilization facility, fails a QSR inspection, our and 35 Table of Contents their operations could be disrupted, and manufacturing interrupted. Failure to take adequate and timely corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection could force a shutdown of our manufacturing operations or a recall of our products. Adverse QSR inspections could delay FDA approval of our system and could have an adverse effect on our production, sales and profitability. We and any of our third party vendors may also encounter other problems during manufacturing including failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, equipment malfunction and environmental factors, any of which could delay or impede our ability to meet demand. The manufacture of our product also subjects us to risks that could harm our business, including problems relating to the sterilization of our products or facilities and errors in manufacturing components that could negatively affect the efficacy or safety of our products or cause delays in shipment of our products. Any interruption or delay in the manufacturer of the product or any of its components could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and cause them to cancel orders or switch to competitive products, and could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with the extensive FDA regulations relating to our business, we may be subject to fines, injunctions and penalties and our ability to commercially distribute and promote our products may be hurt. Our products are classified by the FDA as medical devices and as such are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. FDA regulations, guidance, notices and other issuances specific to medical devices are broad and regulate, among other things: • product design, development, manufacturing and labeling; • product testing, including electrical testing, transportation testing and sterility testing; • pre-clinical laboratory and animal testing; • clinical trials in humans; • product safety, effectiveness and quality; • product manufacturing, storage and distribution; • premarket clearance or approval; • record keeping and document retention procedures; • product advertising, sales and promotion; • post-market surveillance and medical device reporting, including reporting of deaths, serious injuries or other adverse events or device malfunctions; • product corrective actions, removals and recalls; and • import and export. Compliance with FDA, state and other regulations can be complex, expensive and time-consuming. The FDA and state authorities have broad enforcement powers. Furthermore, changes in the applicable governmental regulations could prevent further commercialization of our products and technologies and could materially harm our business. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA or state agencies, which may include any of the following sanctions: • warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; • repair, replacement, refunds, recall or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; 36 Table of Contents • refusing or delaying our pending requests for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products, new intended uses or modifications to existing products; • withdrawing 510(k) clearance or premarket approvals that have already been granted; and • criminal prosecution. If any of these events were to occur, we could lose customers, and our production, product sales, business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. We are also subject to medical device reporting regulations that require us to file reports with the FDA if our products reasonably are the cause of or contribute to an adverse event, death, serious injury or in the event of product malfunction. As of March 15, 2006, we have submitted a total of thirteen medical device reports to the FDA involving our products. There have also been other incidents, including patient deaths, that have occurred during open-heart and sole-therapy minimally invasive procedures using our system that we have not, and believe were not required to be, reported to the FDA because we determined that these incidents were not related to the use of our system. If the FDA disagrees with us, however, and determines that we should have submitted reports for these adverse events, we could be subject to significant regulatory fines or other penalties. In addition, the number of medical device reports we make, or the magnitude of the problems reported, could cause the FDA or us to terminate or modify our clinical trials or recall or cease the sale of our products, and could hurt commercial acceptance of our product in the market. Modifications to the AtriCure bipolar ablation system may require new clearances or approvals or require us to cease promoting or recall the modified products until such clearance or approvals are obtained. Any modification to a 510(k)-cleared device that would constitute a change in its intended use, design or manufacture, could require a new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, submission and FDA approval of a PMA. The FDA requires every medical device company to make the determination as to whether a new 510(k) is to be filed in the first instance, but the FDA may review any medical device company’s decision. We have previously made modifications to the AtriCure bipolar ablation system but do not believe such modifications require us to submit an additional 510(k) clearance. The FDA may not agree with our decisions regarding whether new clearances or approvals are required. If the FDA disagrees with us and requires us to submit a new 510(k) or PMA for then-existing modifications, we may be required to cease promoting or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval. In addition, we could be subject to significant regulatory fines or other penalties. Furthermore, our products could be subject to recall if the FDA determines, for any reason, that our products are not safe or effective or that appropriate regulatory submissions were not made. Delays in receipt or failure to receive clearances or approvals, the loss of previously received clearances or approvals, or the failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements, could reduce our sales, profitability and future growth prospects. We will spend considerable time and money complying with federal, state and foreign regulations in addition to FDA regulations, and, if we are unable to fully comply with such regulations, we could face substantial penalties. We are subject to extensive regulation by the federal government and the states and foreign countries in which we conduct our business. The laws that affect our ability to operate our business in addition to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and FDA regulations include, but are not limited to, the following: • state food and drug laws, including laws regulating the manufacture, promotion and distribution of medical devices; • state consumer protection, fraud and business practice laws; • the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce either the referral of an individual, or furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid Programs; 37 Table of Contents • the federal False Claims Act, which prohibits submitting a false claim or causing of the submission of a false claim to the government; • Medicare laws and regulations that prescribe the requirements for coverage and payment, including the amount of such payment, and laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement under Medicare and Medicaid; • the federal doctor self-referral prohibition, commonly known as the Stark Law, which, in the absence of a statutory or regulatory exception, prohibits the referral of Medicare patients by a doctor to an entity for the provision of certain designated healthcare services including inpatient and outpatient hospital services, if the doctor or a member of the doctor’s immediate family has a direct or indirect financial relationship, including an ownership interest in, or a compensation arrangement with, the entity and also prohibits that entity from submitting a bill to a federal payor for services rendered pursuant to a prohibited referral; • state laws that prohibit the practice of medicine by non-doctors and by doctors not licensed in a particular state, and fee-splitting arrangements between doctors and non-doctors, as well as state law equivalents to the Anti-Kickback Statute and the Stark Law, which may not be limited to government-reimbursed items; • Federal and State healthcare fraud and abuse laws or laws protecting the privacy of patient medical information, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA; • the Federal Trade Commission Act and similar laws regulating advertising and consumer protection; and • similar and other regulations outside the United States. Certain federal and state laws regarding Medicare, Medicaid and physician self-referrals are broad and we may be required to change one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. Healthcare fraud and abuse regulations are complex and even minor, inadvertent irregularities in submissions can potentially give rise to claims that a statute has been violated. Any violations of these laws could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, if we were found to be in violation of the federal False Claims Act, we would likely face significant fines and penalties and would likely be required to change substantially our sales, promotion, grant and educational activities. There is also a possibility that we could face an injunction that would prohibit in whole or in part our current business activities, and, as a result of enforcement actions against us or our senior officers, we could be excluded from participation in government healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. If there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or the other governmental regulations to which we, our distributors or our customers are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid and other government programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If we are required to obtain permits or licensure under these laws that we do not already possess, we may become subject to substantial additional regulation or incur significant expense. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations would adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully or clearly interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are subject to a variety of interpretations and additional legal or regulatory change. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation. 38 Table of Contents If doctors or hospitals were to receive inadequate levels of reimbursement for surgical AF treatments using the AtriCure bipolar ablation system from governmental or other third-party payors, it could affect the adoption or use of our system and may cause our revenue to decline. Widespread adoption or use of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system by the medical community is unlikely to occur if doctors and hospitals do not receive sufficient reimbursement from payors for surgical treatment of AF using our system. Currently, hospitals do not receive any additional reimbursement from the fee-for-service Medicare program, which is administered by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, for the cost of AF treatment, or for the cost of our system, as part of an open-heart procedure. However, doctors performing AF treatment during an open-heart surgical procedure do receive separate reimbursement for performing these AF treatments. Sole-therapy minimally invasive AF treatment does qualify for reimbursement from the fee-for-service Medicare program allowing both doctors and hospitals to receive reimbursement for this type of AF treatment. In addition, the Medicare program has already adopted specific hospital inpatient treatment codes describing AF treatment by ablation in sole-therapy minimally invasive procedures such as that provided through the use of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system. Many private payors look to CMS as a guideline in setting their reimbursement policies and amounts. If CMS or other agencies decrease or limit reimbursement payments for doctors and hospitals, this may affect coverage and reimbursement determinations by many private payors. Additionally, some private payors do not follow the Medicare guidelines and those payors may reimburse only a portion of the cost of AF treatment or not at all. Furthermore, for some governmental payors, such as the Medicaid program, reimbursement differs from state to state, and some state Medicaid programs may not reimburse for our procedure in an adequate amount, if at all. We are unable to predict all changes to the coverage or reimbursement methodologies that will be employed by private or governmental third-party payors. We cannot be certain that under prospective payment systems and applicable fee schedules, such as those used by CMS and by many private healthcare payors, the cost of the procedures utilizing the AtriCure bipolar ablation system will be adequately reimbursed or that it will receive reimbursement consistent with historical levels. Any denial of private or governmental third-party payor coverage or inadequate reimbursement for procedures performed using the AtriCure bipolar ablation system could harm our business and reduce our revenue. Adverse changes in payors’ policies toward coverage and reimbursement for surgical AF treatment would harm our ability to promote and sell the AtriCure bipolar ablation system. Third-party payors are increasingly exerting pressure on medical device companies to reduce their prices. Even to the extent that the treatment of AF using the AtriCure bipolar ablation system is reimbursed by private payors and governmental payors, adverse changes in payors’ policies toward coverage and reimbursement for surgical AF treatment would also harm our ability to promote and sell the AtriCure bipolar ablation system. Payors continue to review their policies and can, without notice, deny coverage for treatments that include the use of our product. Because each third-party payor individually approves coverage and reimbursement, obtaining these approvals may be time-consuming and costly. In addition, third-party payors may require us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system. Alternatively, government or private payors may deem the treatment of AF utilizing the AtriCure bipolar ablation system experimental or not medically necessary and, as such, not provide coverage. Adverse changes in coverage and reimbursement for surgical AF treatment could harm our business and reduce our revenue. We have limited long-term clinical data regarding the safety and efficacy of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system. Any long-term data that is generated may not be positive or consistent with our limited short-term data, which would affect the rate at which our system is adopted by the medical community. Our success depends upon our system’s acceptance by the medical community as safe and effective in the treatment of AF. Serious complications, including death, have been encountered in connection with the surgical 39 Table of Contents treatment of AF, including in connection with a limited number of sole-therapy minimally invasive procedures in which our system was used. Important factors upon which the efficacy of our system will be measured include long-term data on the number of patients that continue to experience AF following treatment with our system and the number of patients that have serious complications resulting from AF treatment using our system. Our clinical trials may produce limited data regarding the efficacy of our system for the treatment of AF, or may identify unexpected safety issues. We cannot provide any assurance that the data collected during our clinical trials will be compelling to the medical community or to the FDA, because it may not be scientifically meaningful and may not demonstrate that the AtriCure bipolar ablation system is an attractive procedure when compared against data from alternative procedures and products. In addition, the long-term effects of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system procedure are not known. The results of short-term clinical experience of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system do not necessarily predict long-term clinical benefit. If the long-term clinical trial results are not as positive as the short-term results or the long-term results do not otherwise meet doctors’ expectations, the FDA may not approve our system for the treatment of AF, the AtriCure bipolar ablation system may not become widely adopted, and doctors may recommend alternative treatments for their patients. Another significant factor is acute safety data on complications that occur during the treatment of AF during open-heart surgical procedures and as a sole-therapy minimally invasive treatment. If the results obtained from our RESTORE-SR trial or any other clinical studies or clinical or commercial experience indicate that the AtriCure bipolar ablation system is not safe or effective, or not as safe or effective as other treatment options or than current short-term data would suggest, the FDA may not approve our system for the treatment of AF, adoption of the use of our system for the treatment of AF may suffer and our business would be harmed. Even if we believe the data collected from clinical studies or clinical experience indicates positive results, each doctor’s actual experience with our system may vary. Clinical studies conducted with our system have involved procedures performed by doctors who are technically proficient. Consequently, both short- and long-term results reported in these studies may be significantly more favorable than typical results of practicing doctors, which could negatively impact rates of adoption of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system. We sell the AtriCure bipolar ablation system outside of the United States and are subject to various risks relating to international operations, which could harm our international revenue and profitability. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, approximately 8.7% of our total revenue was attributable to sales in markets outside of the United States. We currently depend on third-party distributors to sell the AtriCure bipolar ablation system outside of the United States, and if these distributors underperform, we may be unable to increase or maintain our level of international revenue. Over the long term, we intend to grow our business outside of the United States, and to do so we will need to attract additional distributors or hire direct sales personnel to expand the territories in which we sell the AtriCure bipolar ablation system. Distributors may not commit the necessary resources to promote and sell our system to the level of our expectations. If current or future distributors do not perform adequately, or we are unable to locate distributors in particular geographic areas, we may not realize expected long-term international revenue growth. Doing business outside of the United States exposes us to risks distinct from those we face in our domestic operations. For example, our operations outside of the United States are subject to different regulatory laws and requirements in each jurisdiction where we operate or have sales. Our or our distributors’ failure to comply with current or future foreign regulatory requirements, or the assertion by foreign authorities that we or they have failed to comply, could result in adverse consequences, including enforcement actions, fines and penalties, recalls, cessation of sales, civil and criminal prosecution, and the consequences could be disproportionate to the relative contribution of our international operations to our results of operations. Moreover, if political or economic conditions deteriorate in these countries, our ability to conduct our international operations could be 40 Table of Contents limited and the costs could be increased, which could negatively affect our operating results. Engaging in business outside of the United States inherently involves a number of other difficulties and risks, including: • export restrictions and controls relating to technology; • pricing pressure that we may experience internationally; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • political and economic instability; • potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs and other trade barriers; • the need to hire additional personnel to promote our system outside of the United States; • international terrorism and anti-American sentiment; • fluctuations in exchange rates for future sales denominated in non-United States currency; and • difficulties in obtaining and enforcing intellectual property rights. Our exposure to each of these risks may increase our costs and require significant management attention. We cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not harm our business. If coverage and adequate levels of reimbursement from governmental and third-party payors outside of the United States are not attained and maintained, sales of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system outside of the United States may decrease and we may fail to achieve or maintain significant sales outside of the United States. Our revenue generated from sales outside of the United States is also dependent upon the availability of coverage and reimbursement within prevailing foreign healthcare payment systems. In general, foreign healthcare payors do not provide reimbursement for sole-therapy minimally invasive procedures utilizing an ablation device such as the AtriCure bipolar ablation system. In addition, healthcare cost containment efforts similar to those we face in the United States are prevalent in many of the other countries in which we sell our system, and these efforts are expected to continue. To the extent that use of an ablation device such as the AtriCure bipolar ablation system has historically received reimbursement under a foreign healthcare payment system, if any, such reimbursement has typically been significantly less than the reimbursement provided in the United States. If coverage and adequate levels of reimbursement from governmental and third-party payors outside of the United States are not attained and maintained, sales of the AtriCure bipolar ablation system outside of the United States may decrease and we may fail to achieve or maintain significant sales outside of the United States. If we choose to acquire new and complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to complete these acquisitions or to successfully integrate them in a cost-effective and non-disruptive manner. Our success depends on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing customer demands, competitive pressures and technologies. Accordingly, we may in the future pursue the acquisition of, or joint ventures relating to, complementary businesses, products or technologies instead of developing them ourselves. We have no current commitments with respect to any acquisition or investment. We do not know if we will be able to successfully complete any acquisitions or joint ventures, or future acquisitions or joint ventures, or whether we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired business, product or technology or retain any key employees. Integrating any business, product or technology we acquire could be expensive and time consuming, disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management. If we are unable to integrate any acquired businesses, products or technologies effectively, our business will suffer. In addition, any amortization or charges resulting from the costs of acquisitions could increase our expenses. 41 Table of Contents We depend on our officers and other skilled and experienced personnel to operate our business effectively. If we are not able to retain our current employees or recruit additional qualified personnel, our business will suffer and our future revenue and profitability will be impaired. We are highly dependent on the skills and experience of our President and Chief Executive Officer, David J. Drachman, and other employees. We do not have any insurance in the event of the death or disability of our key personnel other than Mr. Drachman and Michael D. Hooven, our Chief Technology Officer. We do not currently have any employment agreements with any of our officers and they may terminate their employment and work elsewhere without notice and without cause or good reason. Currently we have non-compete agreements with our officers and other employees. Due to the specialized knowledge that each of our officers possesses with respect to the AtriCure bipolar ablation system and our operations and the limited pool of people with relevant experience in the medical device field, the loss of service of one or more of these individuals could significantly affect our ability to operate and manage our business. In particular, the departure of our Chief Technology Officer may impair our ability to develop new, advanced technologies. The announcement of the loss of one or more of our key personnel could negatively affect our stock price. We depend on our scientific and technical personnel for successful product development and innovation, which are critical to the success of our business. In addition, to succeed in the implementation of our business strategy, our management team must rapidly execute our sales strategy, obtain expanded FDA clearances and approvals, achieve market acceptance for the AtriCure bipolar ablation system and further develop products, while managing anticipated growth by implementing effective planning, manufacturing and operating processes. Managing this growth will require us to attract and retain additional management and technical personnel. Our offices are located in West Chester, Ohio where it is difficult to attract and retain employees with experience in the medical device industry. We rely on direct sales employees and manufacturer’s representatives to sell the AtriCure bipolar ablation system in the United States. We plan to expand our sales team and failure to adequately train our employees in the use and benefits of our products will prevent us from achieving our market share and revenue growth goals. In addition, we have key relationships with doctors that involve procedure and tool development, market development and clinical development. If any of these doctors end their relationship with us, our business would be negatively impacted. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel and doctor relationships necessary to grow and expand our business and operations. If we fail to identify, attract, retain and motivate these highly skilled personnel and doctors, we may be unable to continue our development and sales activities. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could subject us to significant liability. Our manufacturing operations and research and development activities involve the use of biological materials and hazardous substances and are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to the storage, use, discharge, disposal, remediation of, and human exposure to, hazardous substances. Our research and development and manufacturing operations may produce biological waste materials, such as animal tissues, and certain chemical waste. These operations are permitted by regulatory authorities, and the resultant waste materials are disposed of in material compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with these laws and regulations may be expensive and non-compliance could result in substantial liabilities. In addition, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury to third parties from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed any applicable insurance coverage we may have. In addition, our manufacturing operations may result in the release, discharge, emission or disposal of hazardous substances that could cause us to incur substantial liabilities, including costs for investigation and remediation. 42 Table of Contents Risks Relating To Our Common Stock The price and trading volume of our common stock may experience extreme fluctuations and you could lose some or all of your investment. Because we operate within the medical device segment of the healthcare industry, our stock price is likely to be volatile. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including: • doctor and patient acceptance of the surgical treatment of AF using our system; • adverse regulatory developments with respect to our products, such as recalls, new regulatory requirements, changes in regulatory requirements or guidance and timing of regulatory clearances and approvals for new products; • coverage and reimbursement determinations for our products and the related procedures; • the timing of orders received; delays or interruptions in manufacturing or shipping of our products; • pricing of our products; • media reports and publications and announcements about products or new innovations that could compete with our products or about the medical device product segment in general; • market conditions or trends related to the medical device and healthcare industries or the market in general; • additions to or departures of our key personnel; • disputes, litigation or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; • changes in financial estimates, investors’ perceptions or recommendations by securities analysts; • variations in our quarterly financial and operating results; and • changes in accounting principles. These factors, some of which are not within our control, may cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. For example, we believe that recent negative publicity has caused and may continue to cause our stock price to decline. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could drop suddenly and significantly. We believe the quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. The market prices of the securities of medical device companies, particularly companies like ours without consistent product revenue and earnings, have been highly volatile and are likely to remain highly volatile in the future. This volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market prices generally are not sustainable and are highly volatile. In the past, companies that experience volatility in the market price of their securities have often faced securities class action litigation. Whether or not meritorious, litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs, divert our management’s attention and resources and harm our ability to grow our business. The future sale of our common stock could dilute your investment and negatively affect our stock price. We have approximately 12.1 million shares of common stock outstanding as of March 15, 2006. The 4,600,000 shares sold in our initial public offering are freely tradable without restriction under the federal securities laws unless purchased by our affiliates. The remaining shares of common stock outstanding are 43 Table of Contents available for public sale subject in some cases to volume and other limitations. Substantially all of these remaining shares were subject to lock-up agreements with certain underwriters that expired on February 1, 2006. If our common shareholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the market perceives that such sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could fall. The holders of up to approximately 6,000,000 shares of our common stock and the holders of warrants to purchase up to approximately 250,000 shares of our common stock have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other shareholders. Furthermore, if we were to include in a company-initiated registration statement shares held by those holders pursuant to the exercise of their registration rights, the sale of those shares could impair our ability to raise needed capital by depressing the price at which we could sell our common stock. In addition, we may need to raise capital in the future to fund our operations. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, our stock price may decline and our existing shareholders may experience significant dilution. Furthermore, we may enter into financing transactions at prices that represent a substantial discount to market price. A negative reaction by investors and securities analysts to any sale of our equity securities could result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. If our principal shareholders, executive officers and directors choose to act together, they may be able to control our management and operations, which may prevent us from taking actions that may be favorable to you. As of December 31, 2005, our executive officers, directors and principal shareholders, and entities affiliated with them, beneficially owned in the aggregate greater than 50% of our common stock following our offering. This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling shareholders. These shareholders, acting together, will have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election and removal of directors and any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, they could dictate the management of our business and affairs. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination that could be favorable to you. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and under Delaware law could inhibit a change in control or a change in management that you consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay or prevent a change of control or change in management that would provide you with a premium to the market price of your common stock. These provisions include those: • authorizing the issuance without further approval of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of shareholders to elect director candidates; • limiting the ability to remove directors; • limiting the ability of shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders; • prohibiting shareholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all shareholder actions to be taken at a meeting of shareholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings. 44 Table of Contents In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law limits business combination transactions with 15% shareholders that have not been approved by our board of directors. These provisions and others could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, or for members of our board of directors to be replaced, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt to replace the current management team. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, you may lose an opportunity to realize a premium on your shares of common stock or the market price of our common stock could decline. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, you must rely on stock appreciation for any return on your investment. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will also depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors and will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Accordingly, you will have to rely on capital appreciation, if any, to earn a return on your investment in our common stock. Furthermore, pursuant to our credit facility with Lighthouse Capital Partners V, L.P., we are currently subject to restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and we may in the future become subject to other contractual restrictions on, or prohibitions against, the payment of dividends. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract management. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight will be required. This may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 