D. Risk Factors An investment in a company engaged in oil and gas exploration involves an unusually high amount of risk, unknown and known, present and potential, including, but not limited to the risks enumerated below. Our failure to successfully address the risks and uncertainties described below would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock may decline and investors may lose all or part of their investment. We cannot assure you that we will successfully address these risks or other unknown risks that may affect our business. Risks related to commodity price fluctuations The marketability and price of oil and natural gas are affected by numerous factors outside of the Company’s control. Material fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect the Company's net production revenue and oil and natural gas operations. Prices for oil and natural gas may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the Company’s control, such as: · the domestic and foreign supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; · the price and quantity of imports of crude oil and natural gas; · overall domestic and global economic conditions; · political and economic conditions in other oil and natural gas producing countries, including embargoes and continued hostilities in the Middle East and other sustained military campaigns, and acts of terrorism or sabotage; · the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; · the level of consumer product demand; 8 · weather conditions; · the impact of the U.S. dollar exchange rates on oil and natural gas prices; and · the price and availability of alternative fuels. The Company's ability to market its oil and natural gas depends upon its ability to acquire space on pipelines that deliver such commodities to commercial markets. The Company is also affected by deliverability uncertainties related to the proximity of its reserves to pipelines and processing and storage facilities and operational problems affecting such pipelines and facilities as well as extensive governmental regulation relating to price, taxes, royalties, land tenure, allowable production, the export of oil and natural gas and many other aspects of the oil and natural gas business. Both oil and natural gas prices are unstable and are subject to fluctuation. Any material decline in prices could result in a reduction of the Company's net production revenue. The economics of producing from some wells may change as a result of lower prices, which could result in reduced production of oil or natural gas and a reduction in the volumes and net present value of the Company's reserves. The Company might also elect not to produce from certain wells at lower prices. All of these factors could result in a material decrease in the Company's net production revenue and a reduction in its oil and natural gas acquisition, development and exploration activities. Because world oil and natural gas prices are quoted in U.S. dollars, the Company’s production revenues could be adversely affected by an appreciation of the Canadian dollar. World oil and natural gas prices are quoted in U.S. dollars, and the price received by Canadian producers, including the Company, is therefore affected by the Canadian/U.S. dollar exchange rate, which will fluctuate over time. In recent years, the Canadian dollar has increased materially in value against the U.S. dollar. Such material increases in the value of the Canadian dollar may negatively impact the Company's production revenues. Further material increases in the value of the Canadian dollar would exacerbate this potential negative impact and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. This increase in the exchange rate for the Canadian dollar and future Canadian/U.S. exchange rates could also negatively impact the future value of the Company's reserves as determined by independent petroleum reserve engineers. Risks related to operating an exploration, development and production company The Company’s ability to execute projects will depend on certain factors outside of its control. If the Company is unable to execute projects on time, on budget or at all, it may not be able to effectively market the oil and natural gas that it produces. The Company manages a variety of small and large projects in the conduct of its business. The Company's ability to execute projects and market oil and natural gas will depend upon numerous factors beyond the Company's control, including: · the availability of adequate financing; · the availability of processing capacity; · the availability and proximity of pipeline capacity; · the availability of storage capacity; · the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; · the availability of alternative fuel sources; · the effects of inclement weather; · the availability of drilling and related equipment; 9 · unexpected cost increases; · accidental events; · currency fluctuations; · changes in governmental regulations; · the availability and productivity of skilled labor. Because of these factors, the Company could be unable to execute projects on time, on budget or at all, and may not be able to effectively market the oil and natural gas that it produces. Oil and Gas Exploration Has a High Degree of Risk and the Company's Exploration Efforts May Be Unsuccessful, Which Would Have a Negative Effect on the Company's Operations. There is no certainty that the expenditures to be made by the Company in the exploration of its current projects, or any additional project interests it may acquire, as described herein, will result in discoveries of recoverable oil and gas in commercial quantities. An exploration project may not result in the discovery of commercially recoverable reserves and the level of recovery of hydrocarbons from a property may not be a commercially recoverable (or viable) reserve which can be legally and economically exploited. If exploration is unsuccessful and no commercially recoverable reserves are defined, management would be required to evaluate and acquire additional projects which would require additional capital, or the Company would have to cease operations altogether. Cumulative Unsuccessful Exploration Efforts by the Company's Personnel Could Result in the Company Having to Cease Operations. The expenditures to be made by the Company in the exploration of its properties as described herein may not result in discoveries of oil and natural gas in commercial quantities. Many exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially recoverable oil and gas deposits and this occurrence could ultimately result in the Company having to cease operations. Oil and natural gas operations involve many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event occurs for which the Company is not fully insured, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. The Company’s involvement in the oil and natural gas exploration, development and production business subjects it to all of the risks and hazards typically associated with such operations, including hazards such as fire, explosion, blowouts, sour gas releases and spills, each of which could result in substantial damage to oil and natural gas wells, production facilities, other property and the environment or personal injury. In particular, the Company may explore for and produce sour natural gas in certain areas. An unintentional leak of sour natural gas could result in personal injury, loss of life or damage to property and may necessitate an evacuation of populated areas, all of which could result in liability to the Company. In accordance with industry practice, the Company is not fully insured against all of these risks. Although the Company maintains liability insurance in an amount that it considers consistent with industry practice, the nature of these risks is such that liabilities could exceed policy limits, in which event the Company could incur significant costs that could have a material adverse effect upon its financial condition. In addition, such risks are not, in all circumstances, insurable or, in certain circumstances, the Company may elect not to obtain insurance to deal with specific risks due to the high premiums associated with such insurance or other reasons. For instance, the Company does not have insurance to protect against the risk from terrorism. Oil and natural gas production operations are also subject to all of the risks typically associated with such operations, including encountering unexpected geologic formations or pressures, premature decline of reservoirs and the invasion of water into producing formations. Losses resulting from the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 10 Seasonal factors and unexpected weather patterns may lead to declines in exploration and production activity. The level of activity in the Canadian oil and natural gas industry is influenced by seasonal weather patterns. Oil and natural gas development activities, including seismic and drilling programs in northern Alberta and British Columbia, are restricted to those months of the year when the ground is frozen. Wet weather and spring thaw may make the ground unstable. Consequently, municipalities and provincial transportation departments enforce road bans that restrict the movement of rigs and other heavy equipment, thereby reducing activity levels. In addition, certain oil and natural gas producing areas are located in areas that are inaccessible other than during the winter months because the ground surrounding the sites in these areas consists of swampy terrain, and additional seasonal weather variations will also affect access to these areas. Seasonal factors and unexpected weather patterns may lead to declines in exploration and production activity during certain parts of the year. The petroleum industry is highly competitive, and increased competitive pressures could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The petroleum industry is competitive in all of its phases. The Company competes with numerous other organizations in the search for, and the acquisition of, oil and natural gas properties and in the marketing of oil and natural gas. The Company's competitors include oil and natural gas companies that have substantially greater financial resources, staff and facilities than the Company. The Company's ability to increase its reserves in the future will depend not only on its ability to explore and develop its present properties, but also on its ability to select and acquire other suitable producing properties or prospects for exploratory drilling. Competitive factors in the distribution and marketing of oil and natural gas include price and methods and reliability of delivery and storage. The Company does not control all of the assets that are used in the operation of its business and, therefore, cannot ensure that such assets will be operated in a manner favorable to the Company. Other companies operate some of the assets in which the Company has an interest. As a result, the Company has limited ability to exercise influence over the operation of those assets or their associated costs, which could adversely affect the Company's financial performance. The Company's return on assets operated by others will therefore depend upon a number of factors that may be outside of the Company's control, including the timing and amount of capital expenditures, the operator's expertise and financial resources, the approval of other participants, the selection of technology and risk management practices. The Company’s ability to market oil and natural gas depends on its ability to transport its product to market. If the Company is unable to expand and develop the infrastructure in the areas surrounding certain of its assets, it may not be able to effectively market the oil and natural gas that is produces. Due to the location of certain of the Company's assets, both in Canada and the United States, there is minimal infrastructure currently available to transport oil and natural gas from the Company's existing and future wells to market. As a result, even if the Company is able to engage in successful exploration and production activities, it may not be able to effectively market the oil and natural gas that it produces, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Demand and competition for drilling equipment could delay the Company’s exploration and production activities, which could adversely affect its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Oil and natural gas exploration and development activities are dependent on the availability of drilling and related equipment (typically leased from third parties) in the particular areas where such activities will be conducted. Demand for such limited equipment or access restrictions may affect the availability of such equipment to the Company and may delay exploration and development activities. To the extent the Company is not the operator of its oil and natural gas properties, the Company will be dependent on such operators for the timing of activities related to such properties and will be largely unable to direct or control the activities of the operators. Title to the Company’s oil and natural gas producing properties cannot be guaranteed and may be subject to prior recorded or unrecorded agreements, transfers, claims or other defects. Although title reviews may be conducted prior to the purchase of oil and natural gas producing properties or the commencement of drilling wells, such reviews do not guarantee or certify that an unforeseen defect in the chain of title will not arise to defeat the Company's claim. Unregistered agreements or transfers, or native land claims, may affect title. If title is disputed, the Company will have to defend its ownership through the courts, which would likely be an expensive and protracted process and have a negative effect on its operations and financial condition. In the event of an adverse judgment, we would lose its property rights. A defect in the Company’s title to any of its properties may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 11 The Company may be unable to meet all of the obligations necessary to successfully maintain each of the licenses and leases and working interests in licenses and leases related to its properties, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The Company's properties are held in the form of licenses and leases and working interests in licenses and leases. If the Company or the holder of the license or lease fails to meet the specific requirement of a license or lease, the license or lease may terminate or expire. None of the obligations required to maintain each license or lease may be met. The termination or expiration of the Company's licenses or leases or the working interests relating to a license or lease may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Risks related to financing continuing and future operations The Company anticipates making substantial capital expenditures for future acquisition, exploration, development and production projects. The Company may not be able to obtain capital or financing necessary to support these projects on satisfactory terms, or at all. The Company anticipates making substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition, exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves in the future. If the Company's revenues or reserves decline, it may not have access to the capital necessary to undertake or complete future drilling programs. Debt or equity financing, or cash generated by operations, may not be available to the Company or may not be sufficient to meet the Company’s requirements for capital expenditures or other corporate purposes. Even if debt or equity financing is available, it may not be on terms acceptable to the Company. The inability of the Company to access sufficient capital for its operations could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The Company's cash flow from its reserves may not be sufficient to fund its ongoing activities at all times, thereby causing the Company to forfeit its interest in certain properties, miss certain acquisition opportunities and reduce or terminate its operations. The Company's cash flow from its reserves may not be sufficient to fund its ongoing activities at all times and it is currently utilizing its bank line of credit to fund its working capital deficit. From time to time, the Company may require additional financing in order to carry out its oil and gas acquisition, exploration and development activities. Failure to obtain such financing on a timely basis could cause the Company to forfeit its interest in certain properties, not be able to take advantage of certain acquisition opportunities and reduce or terminate its level of operations. If the Company's revenues from its reserves decrease as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices or otherwise, the Company's ability to expend the necessary capital to replace its reserves or to maintain its production will be impaired. If the Company's cash flow from operations is not sufficient to satisfy its capital expenditure requirements, there can be no assurance that additional debt or equity financing will be available to meet these requirements or, if available, on favorable terms. Debt that the Company incurs in the future may limit its ability to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. From time to time, the Company may enter into transactions to acquire assets or equity of other organizations. These transactions may be financed in whole or in part with debt, which may increase the Company's debt levels above industry standards for oil and natural gas companies of a similar size. Depending on future exploration and development plans, the Company may require additional equity and/or debt financing that may not be available or, if available, may not be available on favorable terms. None of the Company's organizational documents currently limit the amount of indebtedness that the Company may incur. The level of the Company's indebtedness from time to time could impair the Company's ability to obtain additional financing on a timely basis to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. 12 The Company may be exposed to the credit risk of third parties through certain of its business arrangements. Non-payment or non-performance by any of these third parties could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company may be exposed to third-party credit risk through its contractual arrangements with its current or future joint venture partners, marketers of its petroleum and natural gas production and other parties. In the event such entities fail to meet their contractual obligations to the Company, such failures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, poor credit conditions in the industry and of joint venture partners may impact a joint venture partner's willingness to participate in the Company's ongoing capital program, potentially delaying the program and the results of such program until the Company finds a suitable alternative partner. Risks related to maintaining reserves and acquiring new sources of oil and natural gas The Company’s success depends on its ability to find, acquire, develop and commercially produce oil and natural gas, which is dependent on certain factors outside of the Company’s control. Oil and natural gas operations involve many risks that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. The long-term commercial success of the Company depends on its ability to find, acquire, develop and commercially produce oil and natural gas. The Company has only recently commenced production of oil and gas. There is no assurance that the Company's other properties or future properties will achieve commercial production. Without the continual addition of new reserves, the Company's existing reserves and the production therefrom will decline over time as such existing reserves are exploited. A future increase in the Company's reserves will depend not only on its ability to explore and develop any properties it may have from time to time, but also on its ability to select and acquire new suitable producing properties or prospects. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to locate satisfactory properties for acquisition or participation. Moreover, if such acquisitions or participations are identified, management of the Company may determine that current market conditions, the terms of any acquisition or participation arrangement or pricing conditions may make such acquisitions or participations uneconomical, and further commercial quantities of oil and natural gas may not be produced, discovered or acquired by the Company, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Properties that the Company acquires may not produce as projected, and the Company may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against such liabilities. The long-term commercial success of the Company depends on its ability to find, acquire, develop and commercially produce oil and natural gas reserves. However, the Company’s review of acquired properties is inherently incomplete, as it generally is not feasible to review in depth every individual property involved in each acquisition. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. The Company's estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in the reserve estimates or the underlying assumptions may adversely affect the quantities and present value of the Company’s reserves. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquid reserves and the future cash flows attributed to such reserves. The reserve and associated cash flow information set forth in this annual report on Form 20-F are estimates only. In general, estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and the future net cash flows therefrom are based upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, such as historical production from the properties, production rates, ultimate reserve recovery, timing and amount of capital expenditures, marketability of oil and gas, royalty rates, the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies and future operating costs, all of which may vary materially from actual results. All such estimates are to some degree speculative, and classifications of reserves are only attempts to define the degree of speculation involved. For those reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves attributable to any particular group of properties, classification of such reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of future net revenues associated with reserves prepared by different engineers, or by the same engineers at different times, may vary. The Company's actual production, revenues, taxes and development and operating expenditures with respect to its reserves will vary from estimates thereof and such variations could be material. 13 Estimates of proved reserves that may be developed and produced in the future are often based upon volumetric calculations and upon analogy to similar types of reserves rather than actual production history. Recovery factors and drainage areas were estimated by experience and analogy to similar producing pools. Estimates based on these methods are generally less reliable than those based on actual production history. Subsequent evaluation of the same reserves based upon production history and production practices will result in variations in the estimated reserves, and such variations could be material. In accordance with applicable securities laws, GLJ (see "Item 4.D. Property, Plant and Equipment " herein) has used both constant and forecast prices and costs in estimating the reserves and future net cash flows contained in its report. Actual future net cash flows will be affected by other factors, such as actual production levels, supply and demand for oil and natural gas, curtailments or increases in consumption by oil and natural gas purchasers, changes in governmental regulation or taxation and the impact of inflation on costs. Actual production and cash flows derived from the Company's oil and gas reserves will vary from the estimates contained in both the GLJ and Gustavson reports, and such variations could be material. The report is based in part on the assumed success of activities the Company intends to undertake in future years. The reserves and estimated cash flows set out in the report will be reduced to the extent that such activities do not achieve the level of success assumed in the report. The Company’s future oil and natural gas production may not result in revenue increases and may be adversely affected by operating conditions, production delays, drilling hazards and environmental damages. Future oil and natural gas exploration may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells, but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient petroleum substances to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. Completion of a well does not assure a profit on the investment or recovery of drilling, completion and operating costs. In addition, drilling hazards or environmental damage could greatly increase the cost of operations, and various field operating conditions may adversely affect the production from successful wells. These conditions include delays in obtaining governmental approvals or consents, shut-ins of connected wells resulting from extreme weather conditions, insufficient storage or transportation capacity or other geological and mechanical conditions. While diligent well supervision and effective maintenance operations can contribute to maximizing production rates over time, production delays and declines from normal field operating conditions cannot be eliminated and can be expected to adversely affect revenue and cash flow levels to varying degrees. Risks related to management of the Company The Company may experience difficulty managing its anticipated growth. The Company may be subject to growth-related risks including capacity constraints and pressure on its internal systems and controls. The ability of the Company to manage growth effectively will require it to continue to implement and improve its operational and financial systems and to attract and retain qualified management and technical personnel to meet the needs of its anticipated growth. The inability of the Company to deal with this growth could have a material adverse impact on its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The Company is Dependent on Key Personnel and the Absence of Any of These Individuals Could Result in the Company Having to Cease Operation. While engaged in the business of exploring mineral properties, the nature of the Company's business, its ability to continue its exploration of potential exploration projects, and to develop a competitive edge in the marketplace, depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and maintain qualified key management personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense and the Company may not be able to attract and retain such personnel. The Company's growth will depend, on the efforts of its Senior Management, particularly its CEO, Robert Hodgkinson, its President of Dejour (USA), Harrison Blacker, its President of DEAL, Charles Dove, and Corporate Secretary and its Chief Financial Officer, Mathew Wong. 14 Risks related to federal, state, local and other laws, controls and regulations The Company is subject to complex federal, provincial, state, local and other laws, controls and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner and feasibility of conducting its oil and natural gas operations. Oil and natural gas exploration, production, marketing and transportation activities are subject to extensive controls and regulations imposed by various levels of government, which may be amended from time to time. Governments may regulate or intervene with respect to price, taxes, royalties and the exportation of oil and natural gas. Such regulations may be changed from time to time in response to economic or political conditions. The implementation of new regulations or the modification of existing regulations affecting the oil and natural gas industry could reduce demand for crude oil and natural gas and increase the Company's costs, any of which may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, in order to conduct oil and natural gas operations, the Company requires licenses from various governmental authorities. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain all of the licenses and permits that may be required to conduct operations that it may desire to undertake. There is uncertainty regarding claims of title and rights of the aboriginal people to properties in certain portions of western Canada, and such a claim, if made in respect of the property or assets of the Company, could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Aboriginal peoples have claimed aboriginal title and rights to a substantial portion of western Canada. The Company is not aware that any claims have been made in respect of its property and assets; however, if a claim arose and was successful it would have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The Company is subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations that may expose it to significant costs and liabilities, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. All phases of the oil and natural gas business present environmental risks and hazards and are subject to environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of federal, provincial and local laws and regulations. Environmental legislation provides for, among other things, restrictions and prohibitions on spills, releases or emissions of various substances produced in association with oil and natural gas operations. The legislation also requires that wells and facility sites be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. Compliance with such legislation can require significant expenditures, and a breach of applicable environmental legislation may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, some of which may be material. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner expected to result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability and potentially increased capital expenditures and operating costs. The discharge of oil, natural gas or other pollutants into the air, soil or water may give rise to liabilities to governments and third parties and may require the Company to incur costs to remedy such discharge. Environmental laws may result in a curtailment of production or a material increase in the costs of production, development or exploration activities or otherwise adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The Company's facilities, operations and activities emit greenhouse gases, which will likely subject the Company to possible future legislation regarding the regulation of emissions of greenhouse gases. Announcements from the federal and provincial governments on regulations for greenhouse gas and air emissions legislation have caused uncertainty and changed the environmental regulation of natural resource development. The Company's exploration and production facilities and other operations and activities emit greenhouse gases. Canada is a signatory to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and has ratified the Kyoto Protocol established thereunder to set legally binding targets to reduce nationwide emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and other greenhouse gases. While the federal government has largely abandoned its intent to comply with its Kyoto Protocol obligations, the federal government has provided a draft framework for the federal regulation of greenhouse gases. As such, there is no federal legislative scheme in Canada for the regulation of greenhouse gases. Until that time, the impact of federal greenhouse gas regulation on the Company’s operations is unknown. These regulations may require the reduction of emissions produced by the Company's operations and facilities and the direct and indirect cost of compliance with the regulations may adversely affect the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of the Company. 15 In 2007, the Alberta government’s Climate Change Emissions Management Act and Specified Gas Emitters Regulation came into effect and require that facilities emitting more than 100,000 tonnes of greenhouse gases reduce their greenhouse gas emission intensity by 12 percent over their average intensity levels of 2003, 2004 and 2005. If the emissions intensity target is not met through improvements in operations, compliance tools include: per tonne payment into the climate change emissions management fund; purchase of Alberta-based offsets or purchase of emission performance credits from a different Alberta facility. Failure to comply with these regulations may result in a penalty of $200 per tonne of greenhouse gases over the allowable greenhouse gas emission intensity limit. Risks related to investing in the Company The Company has not paid any dividends on our common shares. Consequently, an investor’s only opportunity currently to achieve a return on its investment will be if the market price of the Company’s common stock appreciates above the price that the investor paid for it. The Company has not declared or paid any dividends on its common shares since the Company’s incorporation. Any decision to pay dividends on the shares of the Company will be made by its board of directors on the basis of the Company's earnings, financial requirements and other conditions existing at such future time. See "Dividend Policy." Consequently, an investor’s only opportunity to achieve a return on its investment in the Company will be if the market price of the Company’s common stock appreciates and the investor is able to sell its shares at a profit. The Company's stock price has been volatile and your investment in the Company's common shares could suffer a decline in value. The Company's common shares are traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange and the NYSE Amex. The market price of the Company's common shares may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include price fluctuations of precious metals, government regulations, disputes regarding mining claims, broad stock market fluctuations and economic conditions in the United States. See "Item 9.A. Offer and Listing Details" for detailed trading price information on the Company's common shares. Dilution Through Employee/Director/Consultant/Agents Options Could Adversely Affect the Company's Shareholders. Because the Company's success is highly dependent upon its respective employees, it has granted to some or all of its key employees, directors and consultants options to purchase common shares as non-cash incentives. To the extent that significant numbers of such options may be granted and exercised, the interests of our other stockholders may be diluted. As of December 31, 2009, there were 4,416,682 share purchase options outstanding, of which 1,233,807 share purchase options are vested and exercisable. If all the vested options were exercised, it would result in an additional 1,233,807 common shares being issued and outstanding. Because the Company may not pay any dividends on its common shares, investors seeking short-term dividend income or liquidity should not purchase the Company's shares. The Company does not currently anticipate declaring and paying dividends to its shareholders in the near future. It is the Company's current intention to apply net earnings, if any, in the foreseeable future to increasing the Company's working capital. Prospective investors seeking or needing dividend income or liquidity should, therefore, not purchase the Company's common shares. While the Company's wholly owned drilling subsidiary provides revenues, it currently has no revenues and a history of losses from its exploration activity, so there can be no assurance that the Company will ever have sufficient earnings to declare and pay dividends to the holders of its shares, and in any event, a decision to declare and pay dividends is at the sole discretion of the Company's board of directors, who currently do not intend to pay any dividends on the Company's common shares for the foreseeable future. 16 Risks related to the Company being a Foreign Private Issuer As a foreign private issuer, the Company's shareholders may have less complete and timely data. The Company is a “foreign private issuer” as defined in Rule 3b-4 under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “U.S. Exchange Act”). Equity securities of the Company are accordingly exempt from Sections 14(a), 14(b), 14(c), 14(f) and 16 of the U.S. Exchange Act pursuant to Rule 3a12-3 of the U.S. Exchange Act. Therefore, the Company is not required to file a Schedule 14A proxy statement in relation to the annual meeting of shareholders. The submission of proxy and annual meeting of shareholder information on Form 6-K may result in shareholders having less complete and timely information in connection with shareholder actions. The exemption from Section 16 rules regarding reports of beneficial ownership and purchases and sales of common shares by insiders and restrictions on insider trading in our securities may result in shareholders having less data and there being fewer restrictions on insiders’ activities in our securities. It may be difficult to enforce judgments or bring actions outside the United States against the Company and certain of its directors and officers. It may be difficult to bring and enforce suits against the Company. The Company is incorporated in British Columbia, Canada. Many of the Company’s directors and officers are not residents of the United States some of the Company's assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for U.S. holders of the Company’s common shares to effect service of process on these persons within the United States or to enforce judgments obtained in the U.S. based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against the Company or its officers and directors. In addition, a shareholder should not assume that the courts of Canada (i) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against the Company or their officers or directors predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the United States, or (ii) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against the Company or their officers or directors predicated upon the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the United States. Increased costs and compliance risks as a result of being a public company. Legal, accounting and other expenses associated with public company reporting requirements have increased significantly in the past few years. The Company anticipates that general and administrative costs associated with regulatory compliance will continue to increase with ongoing compliance requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as any new rules implemented by the SEC, Canadian Securities Administrators, the NYSE Amex and the TSX in the future. These rules and regulations have significantly increased the Company’s legal and financial compliance costs and made some activities more time-consuming and costly. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to effectively meet all of the requirements of these regulations, including Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 and National Instrument 52-109 of the Canadian Securities Administrators (“NI 52-109”). Any failure to effectively implement internal controls, or to resolve difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm the Company’s operating results, cause the Company to fail to meet reporting obligations or result in management being required to give a qualified assessment of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting or the Company’s independent auditors providing an adverse opinion regarding management’s assessment. Any such result could cause investors to lose confidence in the Company’s reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of the Common Shares. These rules and regulations have made it more difficult and more expensive for it to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and the Company may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage in the future. As a result, it may be more difficult for the Company to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on its board of directors or as executive officers. If the Company fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal control over financial reporting, the Company’s ability to provide accurate financial statements and comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and/or NI 52-109 could be impaired, which could cause the Company’s stock price to decrease. 17 ITEM 