Item 1A. Risk Factors. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements concerning the conditions in our industry, expected cost savings, our operations, our economic performance and financial condition, including, in particular, statements relating to our business and growth strategy and product development efforts. The words “may,” “might,” “will,” “should,” “estimate,” “project,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend,” “outlook,” “believe” and other similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements and information. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates and assumptions by our management that, although we believe to be reasonable, are inherently uncertain and subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, those identified under the captions “Business,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report before making an investment decision. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as otherwise required by law. Risks Relating to Our Business If generic products that compete with any of our branded pharmaceutical products are approved, sales of our products will be adversely affected. Generic equivalents for branded pharmaceutical products are typically sold by competing companies at a lower cost than the branded product. After the introduction of a generic competitor, a significant percentage of the prescriptions written for the branded product are often written for the generic version, resulting in a commensurate loss in sales of the branded product. In addition, legislation enacted in the United States allows or, in a few instances, in the absence of specific instructions from the prescribing physician, mandates the use of generic products rather than branded products where a generic equivalent is available. Our branded pharmaceutical products are or may become subject to competition from generic equivalents because there is no proprietary protection for some of the branded pharmaceutical products we sell, because our patent protection expires or because our patent protection is not sufficiently broad. In addition, we may not be successful in our efforts to extend the proprietary protection afforded our branded products through the development and commercialization of proprietary product improvements and new and enhanced dosage forms. Competition from generic equivalents could have a material adverse impact on our revenues, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ESTRACE Cream, ESTRACE Tablets, ESTROSTEP FE, SARAFEM, OVCON 50 and OVCON 35 are currently not protected by patents. Generic equivalents are currently available for ESTROSTEP FE, SARAFEM capsules, DOVONEX Solution, ESTRACE Tablets and OVCON 35. During the next five years, additional products of ours will lose patent protection or likely become subject to generic competition. Although our patent covering FEMHRT expires in May 2010, under a 2004 settlement of certain patent litigation, we granted Barr (now Teva) a non-exclusive license to launch a generic version of the product six months prior to the expiration of our patent. In addition, as a result of our recent settlements of our outstanding patent litigation relating to LOESTRIN 24 FE and FEMCON FE, we granted non-exclusive licenses to third-parties to launch generic versions of these products during the next five years. More specifically, in January 2009, we settled patent litigation related to LOESTRIN 24 FE with Watson. 20 Table of Contents Under the agreement, Watson will be permitted to commence marketing its generic equivalent product on the earlier of January 22, 2014 or the date on which another generic version of LOESTRIN 24 FE enters the U.S. market. In December 2008, we settled our patent litigation related to FEMCON FE with Barr (now Teva). Under the terms of the agreement, Teva will have a license to launch a generic version of FEMCON FE as early as July 1, 2012, or earlier in certain circumstances. In January 2009, we announced that we settled our patent litigation related to FEMCON FE with Watson. Under the agreement, Watson will be permitted to commence marketing its generic equivalent product on the earlier of 180 days after Teva enters the market with a generic equivalent product, or January 1, 2013. Potential generic competitors may challenge the patents protecting our branded pharmaceutical products. For example, in addition to the patent challenges resulting in the settlements described above, in December 2008 and January 2009, we and Mayne received Paragraph IV certification notice letters from Actavis, Mutual, Mylan, Impax and Sandoz indicating that each had submitted to the FDA an ANDA seeking approval to manufacture and sell generic versions of DORYX 100 and 75 mg delayed-release tablets. Those notice letters contend that the DORYX patent is invalid, unenforceable or not infringed. As a result of the enactment of the QI Program Supplemental Funding Act of 2008 (the “QI Act”) on October 8, 2008, Mayne submitted to the FDA for listing in the FDA’s Orange Book the U.S. patent covering DORYX, and potential generic competitors that had filed an ANDA prior to the listing of the DORYX patent were permitted to certify to the listed patent within 120 days of the enactment of the QI Act. While we and Mayne filed infringement lawsuits against each of the potential generic competitors in response to their submissions and intend to vigorously defend the DORYX patent and pursue our legal rights, we can offer no assurance that the lawsuits will result in a 30-month stay of FDA approval with respect to the above mentioned ANDAs or that a generic equivalent will not be approved and enter the market prior to the expiration of the DORYX patent in 2022. In addition, in 2006, LEO Pharma received three notices of Paragraph IV certifications in respect of its patent on DOVONEX Solution. We and LEO Pharma elected not to bring infringement actions with respect to the related ANDAs. As a result, generic equivalents of DOVONEX Solution entered the market in May 2008. In September 2006, LEO Pharma informed us that the USPTO ordered a reexamination of LEO Pharma’s U.S. Patent covering TACLONEX and certain of LEO Pharma’s products in development in response to a request made by Galderma R&D based on alleged prior art. We market and sell TACLONEX in the U.S. under a license agreement with LEO Pharma and have license rights to the products in development. LEO Pharma filed a response with the USPTO in November 2006. In September 2007, LEO Pharma received a non-final Action Closing Prosecution from the USPTO, pursuant to which the patent examiner allowed the specific formulation claim for TACLONEX ointment but rejected the remaining pending claims in the reexamination of LEO Pharma’s patent. In July 2008, LEO Pharma received a Right of Appeal Notice from the USPTO reaffirming the patent examiner’s position as set forth in the non-final Action Closing Prosecution. In December 2008, the USPTO determined that the Right of Appeal Notice had been prematurely issued and granted LEO Pharma’s petition to reopen prosecution of the reexamination proceeding. LEO Pharma intends to vigorously defend the patent. While we can offer no assurance as to the ultimate outcome of the reexamination proceeding, including any related appeals, we continue to believe that LEO Pharma will succeed in maintaining the important elements of the patent protection for the TACLONEX products, particularly based on the timing, extent and quality of the development work conducted by LEO Pharma with vitamin D analogues in combination with corticosteroids. If the claims included in the patent are substantially narrowed, TACLONEX could face direct or indirect competition prior to the expiration of the patent in 2020. See “Note 18” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2008 included elsewhere in this Annual Report. We cannot predict what effect, if any, such matters will have on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 21 Table of Contents Our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property are valuable assets and if we are unable to protect them from infringement or challenges, our business prospects may be harmed. Due to our focus on branded products, we consider our trademarks to be valuable assets. Therefore, we actively manage our trademark portfolio, maintain long-standing trademarks and obtain trademark registrations for new brands. We also police our trademark portfolio against infringement. Our efforts to defend our trademarks may be unsuccessful and we may not have adequate remedies in the event of a finding of infringement due, for example, to the fact that a violating company may be insolvent. We also rely on patents, trade secrets and proprietary knowledge to protect our products. We take steps to protect our proprietary rights by filing applications for patents on certain inventions, by entering into confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment of invention agreements with our employees, consultants, licensees and other companies and enforcing our legal rights against third parties that we believe may infringe our intellectual property rights. We do not ultimately control whether we will be successful in enforcing our legal rights against third party infringers, whether our patent applications will result in issued patents, whether our patents will be subjected to inter parte reexamination by the USPTO, whether our confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment of invention agreements will be breached and whether we will have adequate remedies in the event of any such breach, or whether our trade secrets will become known by competitors. In the past we have been involved in litigation with respect to the validity and infringement of patents, and we may be involved in such litigation in the future. The outcome of this type of litigation is unpredictable, and if unfavorable, may deprive us of market exclusivity or from marketing and selling a product altogether. In addition, bringing and defending these lawsuits is costly, and consequently we may decide to not bring or defend such suits and to abandon the products to which they relate. If we lose market exclusivity for or stop marketing a product, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Delays in production could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our principal pharmaceutical manufacturing facility located in Fajardo, Puerto Rico currently manufactures most of our women’s healthcare oral dose products, including LOESTRIN 24 FE, FEMCON FE, ESTROSTEP FE and OVCON 50 oral contraceptives, and packages our delayed-release DORYX tablets, FEMHRT, FEMTRACE, OVCON 35 and DOVONEX and TACLONEX samples. Because the manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires precise and reliable controls, and due to significant compliance obligations imposed by laws and regulations, we may face delays in qualifying the Fajardo facility for the manufacture of new products or for our other products that are currently manufactured for us by third parties. In addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods, fires and earthquakes could adversely impact the ability of our manufacturing facilities to supply products to us. Hurricanes are relatively common in Puerto Rico and the severity of such natural disasters is unpredictable. In addition, certain of our pharmaceutical products are currently manufactured for us under contracts with third parties. Our contract manufacturers may not be able to manufacture our products without interruption and may not comply with their obligations under our various supply arrangements, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Our contract manufacturers have occasionally been unable to meet all of our orders, which have led to the depletion of our safety stock and temporary shortages of trade supply and promotional samples. Failure by our own manufacturing facility or any third party manufacturer (each a “Product Supplier”) to comply with regulatory requirements could adversely affect their ability to supply products to us. All facilities and manufacturing techniques used for the manufacture of pharmaceutical products must be operated in conformity with cGMPs. In complying with cGMP requirements, Product Suppliers must continually expend time, money and effort in production, record-keeping and quality assurance and control to ensure that their products meet applicable specifications and other requirements for product safety, efficacy and quality. Manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and other regulatory 22 Table of Contents authorities. Failure to comply with applicable legal requirements (including, in the case of our manufacturing facility located in Fajardo, certain obligations that we assumed in our purchase of the facility arising out of a consent decree entered into by the previous owner) subjects the Product Suppliers to possible legal or regulatory action, including shutdown, which may adversely affect their ability to supply us with product. In addition, adverse experiences with the use of products must be reported to the FDA and could result in the imposition of market restrictions through labeling changes or product removal. The FDA must approve suppliers of certain active and inactive pharmaceutical ingredients and certain packaging materials used in our products as well as suppliers of finished products. The development and regulatory approval of our products are dependent upon our ability to procure these ingredients, packaging materials and finished products from FDA-approved sources. FDA approval of a new supplier would be required if, for example, active ingredients, packaging materials or finished products were no longer available from the initially approved supplier or if that supplier had its approval from the FDA withdrawn. The qualification of a new Product Supplier or a new supplier of product components could potentially delay the manufacture of the drug involved. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain active ingredients, packaging materials or finished products from a new supplier on terms that are as favorable to us as those agreed with the initially approved supplier or at reasonable prices. A delay in supplying, or failure to supply, products by any Product Supplier could result in our inability to meet the demand for our products, the loss of all or a portion of our market share with respect to such products, and adversely affect our revenues, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Pricing pressures from third-party payors, including managed care organizations, government sponsored health systems and regulations relating to Medicare and Medicaid, healthcare reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement and pricing in general could decrease our revenues. Our commercial success in producing, marketing and selling products depends, in part, on the availability of adequate reimbursement from third-party healthcare payors, such as managed care organizations and government bodies and agencies for the cost of the products and related treatment. The market for our products may be limited by actions of third-party payors. Managed care organizations and other third-party payors try to negotiate the pricing of medical services and products to control their costs, including by developing formularies to encourage plan beneficiaries to utilize preferred products for which the plans have negotiated favorable terms. Exclusion of a product from a formulary, or placement of a product on a disfavored formulary tier, can lead to sharply reduced usage in the managed care organization patient population. If our products are not included within an adequate number of formularies or if adequate reimbursements are not provided, or if reimbursement policies increasingly favor generic products, our market share and business could be negatively affected. Reforms in Medicare added an out-patient prescription drug reimbursement beginning in 2006 for all Medicare beneficiaries. The federal government and private plans contracting with the government to deliver the benefit, through their purchasing power under these programs, are demanding discounts from pharmaceutical companies that may implicitly create price controls on prescription drugs. These reforms may decrease our future revenues from products such as DOVONEX and TACLONEX that are covered by the Medicare drug benefit. We also face pricing pressures and potential pricing pressures for our drug products reimbursed under the Medicaid program. Most states have established preferred drug lists (“PDLs”) and require that manufacturers pay supplemental rebates to the states in order to be included in the PDL or to avoid being placed in a disfavored position on the state formulary. Further, a number of other legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the healthcare system have been proposed, including federal proposals to permit the U.S. government to use its purchasing power to negotiate further discounts from pharmaceutical companies under Medicare, and proposals to increase the rebates 23 Table of Contents we must pay to the states based on the utilization of our products under Medicaid. While we cannot predict whether any such proposals will be adopted or the effect such proposals may have on our business, the existence of such proposals, as well as the adoption of any proposal, may increase industry-wide pricing pressures, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations and cash flows. Taxing authorities could reallocate our taxable income among our subsidiaries, which could increase our consolidated tax liability, and changes in tax laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We conduct operations world-wide through subsidiaries in various tax jurisdictions. Certain aspects of the transactions between our subsidiaries, including our transfer pricing (which is the pricing we use in the transfer of products and services among our subsidiaries) and our intercompany financing arrangements, could be challenged by applicable taxing authorities. While we believe both our transfer pricing and our intercompany financing arrangements are reasonable, either or both could be challenged by the applicable taxing authorities. Following any such challenge, our taxable income could be reallocated among our subsidiaries. Such reallocation could both increase our consolidated tax liability and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our future operating results, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by changes in the application of tax principles, including tax rates, new tax laws, or revised interpretations of existing tax laws and precedents, which result in a shift of taxable earnings between tax jurisdictions. Changes in market conditions, including lower than expected cash flows or revenues for our branded pharmaceutical products, may result in our inability to realize the value of these products, in which case we may have to record an impairment charge. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapid product development and technological change, and as a result, our pharmaceutical products could be rendered obsolete or their value may be significantly decreased by the development of new technology or new pharmaceutical products to treat the conditions currently addressed by our products, technological advances that reduce the cost of production or marketing or pricing actions by one or more of our competitors. Some of the companies we compete against have significantly greater resources than we do, and therefore, may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products than we can. Our inability to compete successfully with respect to these or other factors may materially and adversely affect our cash flows or revenues, may result in our inability to realize the value of our branded pharmaceutical products, including products acquired from third parties, and may require us to record an impairment charge. Recent legal and regulatory requirements could make it more difficult for us to obtain new or expanded approvals for our products, and could limit or make more burdensome our ability to commercialize our approved products. The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 contains significant additional regulatory requirements affecting pharmaceutical manufacturers. With respect to the manufacturing of drugs, the legislation grants the FDA extensive additional authority to impose post-approval clinical study and clinical trial requirements, require safety-related changes to product labeling, review advertising aimed at consumers, and require the adoption of risk management plans, referred to in the legislation as risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (“REMS”). The REMS may include requirements for special labeling or medication guides for patients, special communication plans for healthcare professionals, and restrictions on distribution and use. For example, if the FDA were to make the requisite findings, it might require that a new product be prescribed only by physicians with certain specialized training, only in certain designated healthcare settings, or only in conjunction with special patient testing and monitoring. The legislation also includes, among other new requirements, provisions requiring the disclosure to the public of certain information regarding ongoing clinical trials for drugs through a clinical trial registry and for disclosing clinical trial results to the public through a clinical trial database; renewed requirements for 24 Table of Contents conducting trials to generate information on the use of products in pediatric patients; and new penalties, for such acts as false or misleading consumer drug advertising. Other proposals have been made to impose additional requirements on drug approvals, further expand post-approval requirements, and restrict sales and promotional activities. New requirements have also been imposed in some states, and proposed in other states, requiring us to provide paper or electronic pedigree information for the drugs that we distribute to help establish their authenticity and to track their movement from the manufacturer through the chain of distribution. These new federal and state requirements, and additional requirements that have been proposed and might be adopted, may make it more difficult or burdensome for us to obtain new or expanded approvals for our products, may be more restrictive or come with onerous post-approval requirements, may hinder our ability to commercialize approved products successfully, and may harm our business. Delays and uncertainties in clinical trials or the government approval process for new products could result in lost market opportunities and hamper our ability to recoup costs associated with product development. FDA approval is generally required before a prescription drug can be marketed. For innovative, or non-generic, new drugs, an FDA-approved NDA is required before the drugs may be marketed in the United States. The NDA must contain data to demonstrate that the drug is safe and effective for its intended uses, and that it will be manufactured to appropriate quality standards. The clinical trials required to obtain regulatory approvals can be complex and expensive, and their outcomes are uncertain. Positive results from pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials do not ensure positive results in later clinical trials that form the basis of an application for regulatory approval. Even where clinical trials are completed successfully, the FDA may determine that a product does not present an acceptable risk benefit profile, and may not approve an NDA or may only approve an NDA with significant restrictions or conditions. The drug development and approval process can be time-consuming and expensive without assurance that the data will be adequate to justify approval of proposed new products. If we are unable to obtain governmental approval for our NDAs, we will not be able to commercialize our products and recoup our R&D costs. Furthermore, even if we obtain regulatory approvals, the terms of any product approval, including labeling, may be more restrictive than desired and could affect the marketability of our products, and the approvals may be contingent upon burdensome post-approval study commitments. If we are unable to obtain timely product approvals on commercially viable terms, our profitability and business could suffer. Changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Our future operating results, financial position or cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations such as (i) changes in the FDA approval processes that may cause delays in, or limit or prevent the approval of, new products, (ii) new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting product marketing, promotion or the healthcare field generally and (iii) new laws or judicial decisions affecting intellectual property rights. The perceived health effects of estrogen and combined estrogen-progestogen hormone therapy products may affect the acceptability and commercial success of our HT products. ESTRACE Tablets, ESTRACE Cream, FEMRING and FEMTRACE are estrogen therapy products, and FEMHRT is a combined estrogen-progestogen therapy product. These HT products are used by women to alleviate symptoms associated with menopause. Recent studies have analyzed the health effects of estrogen therapy and estrogen-progestogen therapy products and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists has recommended that consumers use these products in the lowest possible dose for the shortest possible duration. We believe the publicity surrounding some of these studies resulted in a significant industry-wide decrease in the number of prescriptions being written for estrogen therapy and estrogen-progestogen therapy products, including FEMHRT. The ultimate effect of these studies, and any further changes in labeling for our products, may further affect the acceptability of our products by patients, the willingness of physicians to prescribe our products for their patients or the duration of their therapy. In any such event, our overall rate of growth may be lower. 25 Table of Contents The loss of the services of members of our senior management team or scientific staff or the inability to attract and retain other highly qualified employees could impede our ability to meet our strategic objectives and adversely affect our business. Our success is dependent on attracting and retaining highly qualified scientific, sales and management staff, including our Chief Executive Officer, Roger Boissonneault. We face intense competition for personnel from other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. The loss of key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other highly qualified employees, may impede our ability to meet our strategic objectives. Pursuant to our business strategy, we intend to develop proprietary product improvements as well as new products. This strategy may require us to hire additional employees with expertise in areas that relate to product development. We cannot fully anticipate or predict the time and extent to which we will need to hire this type of specialized personnel. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel necessary to pursue our business strategy fully. In addition, if competition continues to intensify, then our cost of attracting and retaining employees may escalate. Product liability claims and product recalls could harm our business. The development, manufacture, testing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products entail significant risk of product liability claims or recalls. Our products are, in the substantial majority of cases, designed to affect important bodily functions and processes. Unforeseen side-effects caused by, or manufacturing defects inherent in, the products sold by us could result in exacerbation of a patient’s condition, further deterioration of the patient’s condition or even death. The occurrence of such an event could result in product liability claims and/or the recall of one or more of our products. Claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief for themselves or, in certain jurisdictions, by groups seeking to represent a class. For example, approximately 699 product liability suits, including some with multiple plaintiffs, have been filed against, or tendered pursuant to acquisition agreements to, us in connection with the HT products FEMHRT, ESTRACE Tablets, ESTRACE Cream and medroxyprogesterone acetate. The lawsuits were likely triggered by the July 2002 and March 2004 announcements by the National Institutes of Health (“NIH”) of the terminations of two large-scale randomized controlled clinical trials, which were part of the Women’s Health Initiative (“WHI”), examining the long-term effect of HT on the prevention of coronary heart disease and osteoporotic fractures, and any associated risk for breast cancer in postmenopausal women. In the case of the trial terminated in 2002, which examined combined estrogen and progestogen therapy (the “E&P Arm of the WHI Study”), the safety monitoring board determined that the risks of long-term estrogen and progestogen therapy exceeded the benefits, when compared to a placebo. WHI investigators found that combined estrogen and progestogen therapy did not prevent heart disease in the study subjects and despite a decrease in the incidence of hip fracture and colorectal cancer, there was an increased risk of invasive breast cancer, coronary heart disease, stroke, blood clots and dementia. In the trial terminated in 2004, which examined estrogen therapy, the trial was ended one year early because the NIH did not believe that the results were likely to change in the time remaining in the trial and that the increased risk of stroke could not be justified by the additional data that could be collected in the remaining time. As in the E&P Arm of the WHI study, WHI investigators again found that estrogen only therapy did not prevent heart disease and although study subjects experienced fewer hip fractures and no increase in the incidence of breast cancer compared to subjects randomized to placebo, there was an increased incidence of stroke and blood clots in the legs. The estrogen used in the WHI Study was conjugated equine estrogen and the progestin was medroxyprogesterone acetate, the compounds found in Premarin® and Prempro™, products marketed by Wyeth. See “Note 18” to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2008 included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Product liability insurance coverage is expensive, can be difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. Our product liability insurance may not cover all the future liabilities we might incur in connection with the development, manufacture or sale of our products. In addition, we may not continue to be able to obtain insurance on satisfactory terms or in adequate amounts. 26 Table of Contents We currently maintain product liability insurance coverage for claims between $25 million and $75 million, above which we are self-insured. Our insurance may not apply to damages or defense costs related to the above mentioned HT claims, including any claim arising out of HT products with labeling that does not conform completely to FDA hormone replacement therapy communications to manufacturers of HT products. A successful claim or claims brought against us in connection with our HT product liability litigation or other matters that is in excess of available insurance coverage could subject us to significant liabilities and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Such claims could also harm our reputation and the reputation of our products, thereby adversely affecting our ability to market our products successfully. In addition, irrespective of the outcome of product liability claims, defending a lawsuit with respect to such claims could be costly and significantly divert management’s attention from operating our business. Furthermore, we could be rendered insolvent if we do not have sufficient financial resources to satisfy any liability resulting from such a claim or to fund the legal defense of such a claim. Product recalls may be issued at our discretion or at the discretion of certain of our suppliers, the FDA, other government agencies and other entities that have regulatory authority for pharmaceutical sales. From time to time, we have recalled some of our products; however, to date none of these recalls have been significant. Any recall of a significant product could materially adversely affect our business and profitability by rendering us unable to sell that product for some time. Sales of our products may be adversely affected by the consolidation among wholesale drug distributors and the growth of large retail drug store chains. The network through which we sell our products has undergone significant consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions among wholesale distributors and the growth of large retail drugstore chains. As a result, a small number of large wholesale distributors control a significant share of the market, and the number of independent drug stores and small drugstore chains has decreased. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2007, CVS, a national retail drug store chain that previously accounted for over 10% of our net sales and accounts receivable, began purchasing through one of our existing wholesale customers. As a result of this change, our customer concentration was increased. Three large wholesale distributors accounted for an aggregate of 86% of our net revenues during the year ended December 31, 2008. In addition, excess inventory levels held by large distributors may lead to periodic and unanticipated future reductions in revenues and cash flows. Consolidation of drug wholesalers and retailers, as well as any increased pricing pressure that those entities face from their customers, including the U.S. government, may increase pricing pressure and place other competitive pressures on drug manufacturers, including us. If we fail to comply with government regulations we could be subject to fines, sanctions and penalties that could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We are subject to regulation by national, regional, state and local agencies, including the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Department of Justice, the FTC, the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and other regulatory bodies, as well as governmental authorities in those foreign countries in which we manufacture or distribute some of our products. The FDCA, the Public Health Service Act and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern to varying degrees the research, development, manufacturing and commercial activities relating to prescription pharmaceutical products, including pre-clinical and clinical testing, approval, production, labeling, sale, distribution, import, export, post-market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information and promotion. Our sales, marketing, research and other scientific/educational programs must also comply with the anti-kickback and fraud and abuse provisions of the Social Security Act, the False Claims Act, the privacy provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, and similar state laws. Pricing and rebate programs must comply with the Medicaid drug rebate requirements of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 and 27 Table of Contents the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992. If products are made available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule of the General Services Administration, additional laws and requirements apply. All of these activities are also potentially subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws. In addition, in recent years, several states in the U.S., including California, Massachusetts, Maine, Minnesota, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Mexico, Texas, Vermont and West Virginia, as well as the District of Columbia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state, make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials and other activities, and/or register their sales representatives, as well as to prohibit pharmacies and other healthcare entities from providing certain physician prescribing data to pharmaceutical companies for use in sales and marketing. Similar legislation is being considered in other states and at the federal level in the U.S. Many of these requirements are new and their breadth and application is uncertain. Non-compliance with these and other government regulations and other legal requirements may result in civil fines, criminal fines and prosecution, the recall of products, the total or partial suspension of manufacture and/or distribution, seizure of products, injunctions, whistleblower lawsuits, failure to obtain approval of pending product applications, withdrawal of existing product approvals, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs and other sanctions. Any threatened or actual government enforcement action can also generate adverse publicity and require that we devote substantial resources that could be used productively on other aspects of our business. Any of these enforcement actions could affect our ability to commercially distribute our products and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to successfully identify, develop, acquire, license or market new products as part of growing our business. In order to grow and achieve success in our business, we must continually identify, develop, acquire and license new products that we can ultimately market. Any future growth through new product acquisitions will be dependent upon the continued availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. Even if such opportunities are present, we may not be able to successfully identify products as candidates for potential acquisition, licensing, development or collaborative arrangements. Moreover, other companies, many of which may have substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, are competing with us for the right to acquire such products. If an acquisition candidate is identified, the third parties with whom we seek to cooperate may not select us as a potential partner or we may not be able to enter into arrangements on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Furthermore, we do not know if we will be able to finance the acquisition or integrate an acquired product into our existing operations. The negotiation and completion of potential acquisitions could result in a significant diversion of management’s time and resources and potentially disrupt our ongoing business. Future product acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in interest expense and amortization expenses, as well as significant charges relating to integration costs. At each stage between developing or sourcing new products and marketing these products, there are a number of risks and uncertainties, and failure at any stage could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve commercial success with a product or to maintain or increase revenues, profits and cash flow. In addition, if we are unable to manage the challenges surrounding product development, acquisitions or the successful integration of acquisitions, it could have materially adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 28 Table of Contents Prescription drug importation from Canada and other countries could increase pricing pressure on certain of our products and could decrease our revenues and profit margins. Under current U.S. law, U.S. individuals may import prescription drugs that are unavailable in the U.S. from Canada and other countries for their personal use under specified circumstances. Other imports, although illegal under U.S. law, also enter the country as a result of the resource constraints and enforcement priorities of the FDA and the U.S. Customs Service. The volume of prescription drug imports from Canada and elsewhere could increase due to a variety of factors, including the further spread of Internet pharmacies and actions by certain state and local governments to facilitate Canadian and other imports. These imports may harm our business. We currently sell FEMHRT in Canada. In addition, ESTRACE Tablets, DOVONEX and TACLONEX (sold as “DOVOBET” in Canada) are sold in Canada by third parties. For the year ended December 31, 2008, DOVONEX, TACLONEX, FEMHRT and ESTRACE Tablets accounted for approximately 37% of our total revenues. Due to government price regulation in Canada and other countries, these products are generally sold in Canada and other countries for lower prices than in the U.S. As a result, if these drugs are imported into the U.S. from Canada or elsewhere, we may experience reduced revenue or profit margins. We have a significant amount of intangible assets, which may never generate the returns we expect. The Acquisition resulted in significant increases in identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. Identifiable intangible assets, which include trademarks and trade names, license agreements and patents acquired in acquisitions, were $993.8 million at December 31, 2008, representing approximately 38.5% of our total assets. Goodwill, which relates to the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of the businesses acquired, was $1,250.3 million at December 31, 2008, representing approximately 48.5% of our total assets. The majority of our intangible assets are owned by our Puerto Rican subsidiary. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition. Under Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Statement No. 142, goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment and definite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Future impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of the acquired business or product line, adverse market conditions and changes in the competitive landscape, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of the acquired business or product line, changes in accounting rules and regulations, and a variety of other circumstances. The amount of any impairment is recorded as a charge to the statement of operations. We may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of intangible assets may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, in connection with our annual review of intangible assets during the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $163.3 million relating to our OVCON / FEMCON FE product family. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for details. If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program or other governmental pricing programs, we could be subject to additional reimbursements, penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We participate in the federal Medicaid rebate program established by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, as well as several state supplemental rebate programs. Under the Medicaid rebate program, we pay a rebate to each state Medicaid program for our products that are reimbursed by those programs. The minimum amount of the rebate for each unit of product is set by law as 15.1% of the average manufacturer price (“AMP”) of that product, or if it is greater, the difference between AMP and the best price available from us to any customer. The rebate amount also includes an inflation adjustment, if necessary. As a manufacturer currently of single source, innovator multiple source and non-innovator multiple source products, rebate calculations vary among products and programs. The calculations are complex and, in certain 29 Table of Contents respects, subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. The Medicaid rebate amount is computed each quarter based on our submission to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services of our current AMP and best price for each of our products. The terms of our participation in the program impose an obligation to correct the prices reported in previous quarters, as may be necessary. Any such corrections could result in an overage or underage in our rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the direction of the correction. In addition to retroactive rebates (and interest, if any), if we are found to have knowingly submitted false information to the government, the statute provides for civil monetary penalties in the amount of $0.1 million per item of false information. Governmental agencies may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. Federal law requires that any company that participates in the Medicaid rebate program extend comparable discounts to qualified purchasers under the Public Health Services (“PHS”) pharmaceutical pricing program. The PHS pricing program extends discounts comparable to the Medicaid rebates to a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the PHS, as well as hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of economically disadvantaged patients. Adverse outcomes in our outstanding litigation matters could negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our financial condition could be negatively impacted by unfavorable results in our outstanding litigation matters, including those described in “Note 18” to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2008 included elsewhere in this Annual Report, or in lawsuits that may be initiated in the future. These matters include intellectual property litigation and product liability litigation, any of which, if adversely decided, could negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Risks Related to our Indebtedness We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our indebtedness. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, we had total indebtedness of $962.6 million. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness, combined with our leases and other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have other important consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us and certain of our direct and indirect subsidiaries to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness; • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; • require us or our subsidiaries to dedicate a substantial portion of our or their cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; 30 Table of Contents • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes. Any of the above listed factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our interest expense could increase if interest rates increase because debt under our senior secured credit facility bears interest at our option at adjusted LIBOR plus an applicable margin or ABR plus an applicable margin. If we do not have sufficient earnings to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. In addition, the agreements governing our indebtedness contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our subsidiaries’ ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. A failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our debt. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to pay interest and principal in respect of our indebtedness principally will depend upon our future operating performance. As a result, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, will affect our ability to make these payments. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt service obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. Our ability to restructure or refinance our indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt instruments, including the senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our outstanding Notes, may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance our obligations at all or on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy our obligations in respect of our indebtedness. The terms of our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our outstanding Notes restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take certain actions. The senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our outstanding Notes contain, and any future indebtedness of ours or our subsidiaries would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on certain of our direct and indirect subsidiaries, which may result in restrictions on their ability to engage in acts that may be in our best long-term interests. The senior secured credit facility includes financial covenants, including requirements that certain of our subsidiaries: • maintain minimum interest coverage ratios; and • not exceed maximum total leverage ratios. The senior secured credit facility limits the ability of certain of our direct and indirect subsidiaries to make capital expenditures and, in certain circumstances, requires that they use a portion of excess cash flow and proceeds of certain asset sales that are not reinvested in their business and other dispositions to repay indebtedness under the senior secured credit facility. 31 Table of Contents The senior secured credit facility also includes covenants restricting, among other things, the ability of certain of our direct and indirect subsidiaries to: • incur liens; • incur or assume additional debt or guarantees or issue preferred stock; • pay dividends, or make redemptions and repurchases, with respect to capital stock; • prepay, or make redemptions and repurchases of, subordinated debt; • make loans and investments; • make capital expenditures; • engage in mergers, acquisitions, asset sales, sale/leaseback transactions and transactions with affiliates; • change business; and • amend the terms of subordinated debt. The indenture relating to our Notes also contains numerous covenants including, among other things, restrictions on certain of our direct and indirect subsidiaries’ ability to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue disqualified or preferred stock; • create liens; • pay dividends or make other equity distributions; • repurchase or redeem capital stock; • make investments or other restricted payments; • sell assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies; • create limitations on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to make dividends or distributions; and • engage in transactions with affiliates. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in these debt agreements and any future financing agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. A breach of any of the restrictive covenants in the senior secured credit facility would result in a default under the senior secured credit facility. If any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, or enforce their security interest, any of which would result in an event of default under the indenture relating to our Notes. The lenders will also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Future sales of our shares could depress the market price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, in the public market or otherwise, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately 250.8 million shares of our common stock outstanding. In September of 2006, we completed our IPO selling 70.6 million shares of common stock that are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act. Approximately 179.2 million of the remaining shares were granted to members of management or sold by us in private transactions to members of management, the Sponsors and certain institutional investors, and are eligible for public sale if registered under the Securities Act or sold in accordance with Rule 144 thereunder. The Sponsors have the right, subject to certain conditions, to cause us to register approximately 152.2 million of these shares. 32 Table of Contents We filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register up to approximately 9.3 million shares of our common stock for issuance under our 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (the “Equity Incentive Plan”). As awards under this plan are granted, vest and are exercised, subject to certain limitations under the management shareholders agreement, the shares issued on exercise generally will be available for sale in the open market by holders who are not our affiliates and, subject to the volume and other applicable limitations of Rule 144, by holders who are our affiliates. As of December 31, 2008, options to purchase approximately 4.1 million shares of our common stock were outstanding (of which options to acquire approximately 1.9 million shares of common stock were vested). In addition, as of December 31, 2008, approximately 3.7 million restricted shares were granted under the Equity Incentive Plan (of which approximately 3.1 million restricted shares were vested). The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline significantly. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations in response to general economic and market conditions and their effect on various industries. This market volatility could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly and without regard to our operating performance. In addition, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly if our future operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of public market analysts and investors. Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on our common stock market price include: • actual or expected fluctuations in our operating results; • actual or expected changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; • conditions in our industry generally; • conditions in the financial markets in general or changes in general economic conditions; • our inability to raise additional capital; • changes in market prices for our products; and • changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or our industry generally. Provisions of our bye-laws could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party. Our bye-laws could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our stockholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock. For example, our bye-laws: • permit our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock with rights and preferences designated by our board; • impose advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at stockholder meetings; • stagger the terms of our board of directors into three classes; • limit the ability of stockholders to remove directors; • prohibit stockholders from filling vacancies on our board of directors for so long as a quorum of directors exists; and • require the approval of at least a majority of the voting power of the shares of our capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors for stockholders to amend or repeal our bye-laws. 33 Table of Contents These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over the market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board. Because our Sponsors own a majority of our outstanding common stock, if they act collectively, the influence of our public shareholders over significant corporate actions may be limited, and conflicts of interest between our Sponsors and us or you could arise in the future. Our Sponsors collectively beneficially own approximately 61% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, if our Sponsors act collectively, they could exercise control over the composition of our board of directors and could control the vote of our common stock. If this were to occur, our Sponsors could have effective control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction and could have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of our stockholders regardless of whether or not other equity holders believe that any such transactions are in their own best interests. For example, if our Sponsors act collectively, they effectively could cause us to make acquisitions that increase our indebtedness or sell revenue-generating assets. Additionally, our Sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Our Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as our Sponsors continue to own a significant amount of our equity, even if such amount is less than 50%, and they exercise their shareholder rights collectively, they would continue to be able to significantly influence or effectively control our decisions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 