ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Disruptions in the supply of copper and other raw materials used in our products could cause us to be unable to meet customer demand, which could result in the loss of customers and net sales. Copper is the primary raw material that we use to manufacture our products. Other significant raw materials that we use are plastics, such as polyethylene and PVC, aluminum, linerboard and wood reels. We typically have supplier agreements with terms of one to two years for our raw material needs that do not require us to purchase a minimum amount of these raw materials or involve long term fixed pricing arrangements. If we are unable to maintain good relations with our suppliers or if there are any business interruptions at our suppliers, we may not have access to a sufficient supply of raw materials. If we lose one or more key suppliers and are unable to locate an alternative supply, we may not be able to meet customer demand, which could result in the loss of customers and a decrease in net sales. Fluctuations in the price of copper and other raw materials, as well as fuel and energy, and increases in freight costs could increase our cost of goods sold and affect our profitability. The prices of copper and our other significant raw materials, as well as fuel and energy costs, are subject to considerable volatility. This volatility has affected our profitability and we expect that it will continue to do so in 8 Table of Contents the future. Our agreements with our suppliers generally require us to pay market price for raw materials at the time of purchase. As a result, volatility in these prices, particularly copper prices, can result in significant fluctuations in our cost of goods sold. If the cost of raw materials increase and we are unable to increase the prices of our products, or offset those cost increases with cost savings in other parts of our business, our profitability will be reduced. As a result, increases in the price of copper and other raw materials may affect our profitability if we cannot effectively pass these price increases on to our customers. In addition, we pay the freight costs on certain customer orders. In the event that freight costs increase substantially due to fuel surcharges or otherwise our profitability may decline. The markets for our products are highly competitive, and our inability to compete with other manufacturers in the wire and cable industry could harm our net sales and profitability. The markets for wire and cable products is fragmented and characterized by a large number of competitors. As such, these markets are highly competitive. We compete with at least one major competitor in each of our business lines. In addition, many of our products are made to industry specifications and may be considered fungible with our competitors’ products. Accordingly, we are subject to competition in many of our markets primarily on the basis of price. We must also be competitive in terms of quality both of product offering, inventory availability, delivery time, price, quality, customer service and relationships, brand recognition and logistics capabilities. We are facing increased competition from products manufactured in foreign countries that in many cases are comparable in terms of quality but are offered at lower prices. Unless we can produce our products at competitive prices or purchase comparable products from foreign sources on favorable terms, we may experience a decrease in our net sales and profitability. Many of these competitors have greater resources, financial and otherwise, than we do and may be better positioned to invest in manufacturing and supply chain efficiencies and product development. We may not be able to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with new competitors. We face pricing pressure in each of our markets, and our inability to continue to achieve operating efficiency and productivity improvements in response to pricing pressure may result in lower margins. We face pricing pressure in each of our markets as a result of significant competition and industry overcapacity, and price levels for many of our products (after excluding price adjustments related to the increased cost of copper) have declined over the past few years. We expect pricing pressure to continue for the foreseeable future. A component of our business strategy is to continue to achieve operating efficiencies and productivity improvements with a focus on lowering purchasing, manufacturing and distribution costs. We may not be successful in lowering our costs. In the event we are unable to lower these costs in response to pricing pressure, we may experience lower margins and decreased profitability. We have significant indebtedness outstanding and may incur additional indebtedness that could negatively affect our business. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. At December 31, 2012, we had approximately $323.8 million of total indebtedness, comprised of $272.7 million related to our 9% Senior Notes due in 2018 (“2018 Senior Notes”), including an unamortized debt discount of $2.3 million, $50.4 million from our revolving credit facility, and $0.7 million of capital leases. Our high level of indebtedness and dependence on indebtedness could have important consequences to our shareholders, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing for capital expenditures, potential acquisition opportunities or general corporate or other purposes may be impaired; • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, reducing the funds available to us for other purposes; • it may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged; and 9 Table of Contents • we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, may be limited in our ability to respond to competitive pressures and may have reduced flexibility in responding to changing business, regulatory and economic conditions. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend upon, among other things, our future operating performance and our ability to refinance indebtedness when necessary. Each of these factors is, to a large extent, is dependent on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. If, in the future, we cannot generate sufficient cash from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations, we will need to refinance our existing debt, issue additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, obtain additional financing or sell assets. Our business may not be able to generate cash flow or we may not be able to obtain funding sufficient to satisfy our debt service requirements. We may not be able to successfully identify, finance or integrate acquisitions in order to grow our business. We regularly evaluate possible acquisition candidates. We may not be successful in identifying, financing and closing acquisitions on favorable terms. Potential acquisitions may require us to obtain additional financing or issue additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, and any such financing and issuance of equity may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we finance acquisitions by issuing equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, our existing shareholders could be diluted, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our stock. If we finance an acquisition with debt, it could result in higher leverage and interest costs. Further, we may not be successful in integrating any such acquisitions that are completed. Integration of any such acquisitions may require substantial management, financial and other resources and may pose risks with respect to production, customer service and market share of existing operations. In addition, we may acquire businesses that are subject to technological or competitive risks, and we may not be able to realize the benefits expected from such acquisitions. Our products could be subject to product liability claims and litigation, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and harm our business reputation. We manufacture products that create exposure to product liability claims, breach of contract claims and litigation. If our products are not properly manufactured or designed, personal injuries or property damage could result, which could subject us to claims for damages. The costs associated with defending product liability claims and payment of damages could be substantial. Our reputation could also be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful, and such claims could lead to decreased demand for our systems and products. Advancing technologies, such as fiber optic and wireless technologies, may make some of our products less competitive and reduce our net sales. Technological developments could cause our net sales to decline. For example, a significant decrease in the cost and complexity of installation of fiber optic systems or a significant increase in the cost of copper-based systems could make fiber optic systems superior on a price performance basis to copper systems and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Also, advancing wireless technologies, as they relate to network and communication systems, may reduce the demand for our products by reducing the need for on premises wiring. Wireless communications depend heavily on a fiber optic backbone and do not depend as much on copper-based systems. An increase in the acceptance and use of voice and wireless technology, or introduction of new wireless or fiber-optic based technologies, may have a material adverse effect on the marketability of our products and our profitability. If wireless technology were to significantly erode the markets for copper-based systems, our sales of copper premise cables could face downward pressure. If our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to recognize charges that would reduce our income. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., goodwill assets are not amortized but must be reviewed for possible impairment annually, or more often in certain circumstances if events indicate that the 10 Table of Contents asset values are not recoverable. Deterioration in the macro-economic environment, changes in assumptions, or other factors could necessitate an earnings charge for the impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets in the future, which would reduce our income. We have incurred restructuring charges in the past and may incur additional restructuring charges in the future. We have incurred significant restructuring costs in the past and may incur additional restructuring charges in the future. We may not be able to achieve the planned cash flows and savings estimates associated with such restructuring activities if we are unable to accomplish them in a timely manner, are unable to achieve expected efficiencies or cost savings, or unforeseen developments or expenses arise. As we respond to changes in the market and fluctuations in demand levels, we may be required to realign plant production or otherwise restructure our operations, which may result in additional and potentially significant restructuring charges. Some of our employees belong to a labor union and certain actions by such employees, such as strikes or work stoppages, could disrupt our operations or cause us to incur costs. As of December 31, 2012, we employed 1,726 persons, 15.3% of whom are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, which expired on December 21, 2012. The Company subsequently extended the agreement until April 30, 2013. If unionized employees were to engage in a concerted strike or other work stoppage, if other employees were to become unionized, or if we are unable to negotiate a new collective bargaining agreement when the current one expires, we could experience a disruption of operations, higher labor costs or both. A strike or other disruption of operations or work stoppage could reduce our ability to manufacture quality products for our customers in a timely manner. We may be unable to raise additional capital to meet working capital and capital expenditure needs if our operations do not generate sufficient funds to do so. Our business is expected to have continuing capital expenditure needs. If our operations do not generate sufficient funds to meet our capital expenditure needs for the foreseeable future, we may not be able to gain access to additional capital, if needed, particularly in view of competitive factors and industry conditions. In addition, increases in the cost of copper increase our working capital requirements. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, or unable to obtain additional capital on favorable terms, our liquidity may be diminished and we may be unable to effectively operate our business. We are subject to environmental, health and safety and other laws and regulations which could adversely affect our operations and business. We are subject to the environmental laws and regulations of each jurisdiction where we do business. We are currently, and may in the future be, held responsible for remedial investigations and clean-up costs of certain sites damaged by the discharge of regulated materials, including sites that have never been owned or operated by us but at which we have been identified as a potentially responsible party under federal and state environmental laws. Certain of these laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 9601 et seq. (“CERCLA”), impose strict, and under certain circumstances, joint and several, liability for investigation and cleanup costs at contaminated sites on responsible parties, as well as liability for damages to natural resources. We have established reserves for such potential liability and believe those reserves to be adequate; however, there is no guarantee that such reserves will be adequate or that additional liabilities will not arise. See “Legal Proceedings.” Failure to comply with environmental laws can result in substantial fines, orders to install pollution control equipment and/or claims for alleged personal injury and property damage. Changes in environmental requirements in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions and their enforcement could adversely affect our operations due to increased costs of compliance and potential liability for noncompliance. 11 Table of Contents Disruption in the importation of our raw materials and products and the risks associated with international operations could cause our operating results to decline. We source certain raw materials and products from foreign-based suppliers. Foreign material purchases expose us to a number of risks, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs, possible difficulties in enforcing agreements, exchange rate fluctuations, and difficulties in obtaining import licenses, economic or political instability, embargoes, exchange controls or the adoption of other restrictions on foreign trade. Although we currently manufacture the vast majority of our products in the U.S., to the extent we decide to establish foreign manufacturing facilities, our foreign manufacturing sales would be subject to similar risks. Further, imports of raw materials and products are subject to unanticipated transportation delays that affect international commerce. We have risks associated with inventory. Our business requires us to maintain substantial levels of inventory. We must identify the right mix and quantity of products to keep in our inventory to meet customer orders. Failure to do so could adversely affect our sales and earnings. However, if our inventory levels are too high, we are at risk that an unexpected change in circumstances, such as a shift in market demands, drop in prices, or default or loss of a customer, could have a material adverse impact on the net realizable value of our inventory. Changes in industry standards and regulatory requirements may adversely affect our business. As a manufacturer and distributor of wire and cable products, we are subject to a number of industry standard setting authorities, such as Underwriters Laboratories. In addition, many of our products are subject to the requirements of federal, state, local or foreign regulatory authorities. Changes in the standards and requirements imposed by such authorities could have an adverse effect on us. In the event that we are unable to meet any such standards when adopted, our business could be adversely affected. Our business is subject to the economic, political and other risks of operating and selling products in foreign countries. Our foreign operations, including Canada, Honduras, and China, are subject to risks inherent in maintaining operations abroad, such as economic and political destabilization, international conflicts, restrictive actions by foreign governments, nationalizations or expropriations, changes in regulatory requirements, the difficulty of effectively managing diverse global operations, adverse foreign tax laws and the threat posed by potential pandemics in countries that do not have the resources necessary to deal with such outbreaks. Over time, we intend to continue expanding our foreign operations, which would serve to increase the level of these risks relative to our business operations and their potential effect on our financial position and results of operations. We are substantially dependent upon distributors and retailers for non-exclusive sales of our products and they could cease purchasing our products at any time. Distributors and retailers account for a substantial portion of our sales. These distributors and retailers are not contractually obligated to carry our product lines exclusively or for any period of time. Therefore, these distributors and retailers may purchase products that compete with our products or cease purchasing our products at any time. The loss of one or more large distributors or retailers could have a material adverse effect on our ability to bring our products to end users and on our results of operations. Moreover, a downturn in the business of one or more large distributors or retailers could adversely affect our sales and could create significant credit exposure. Changes in state and federal tax laws could have a significant impact on our business. The Company is subject to federal, state, local and foreign taxes. Uncertainty exists surrounding whether certain income tax provisions will remain enacted or change in some manner through passage of new tax legislation. Our 12 Table of Contents effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax legislation. Additionally, the Company is subject to federal, state, and local tax audits, as well as audits by non-U.S. tax authorities. The audits could result in unfavorable tax adjustments, which could negatively impact the Company’s results. Failure to retain and attract key employees could have a significant impact on our business. Our success has been largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our key employees and the loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees, without a properly executed transition plan, could have an adverse affect on us. The loss of our key employees who have intimate knowledge of our manufacturing process could lead to increased competition to the extent that those employees are hired by a competitor and are able to recreate our manufacturing process. Our future success will also depend in part upon our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, who are in great demand. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 