ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operations are subject to many risks that could adversely affect our future financial condition and performance and, therefore, the market value of our common stock. The risk factors applicable to us are the following: Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking and financial services industry. We face vigorous competition from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, savings banks, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other types of financial institutions for deposits, loans and other financial services in our market area. A number of these banks and other financial institutions are significantly larger than we are and have substantially greater access to capital and other resources, as well as larger lending limits and branch systems, and offer a wider array of banking services. Many of our nonbank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us. As a result, these nonbank competitors have advantages over us in providing certain services. This competition may reduce or limit our margins and our market share and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Difficult market conditions continue to adversely affect our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market in recent years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real-estate related loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. These write-downs spread to other securities and loans and have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. In this environment, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business and results of operations. Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. 12 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by economic conditions in our market area. The general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate are a key component to our success. We are headquartered in central Virginia, and our market area includes regions in Virginia, Georgia and Maryland. Because our lending and deposit-gathering activities are concentrated in this market, we will be affected by the general economic conditions in these areas. Changes in the economy may influence the growth rate of our loans and deposits, the quality of the loan portfolio and loan and deposit pricing. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors, would impact these local economic conditions and the demand for banking products and services generally, and could negatively affect our financial condition and performance. If our allowance for loan losses becomes inadequate, our results of operations may be adversely affected. An essential element of our business is to make loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses in our loan portfolio. Through a periodic review and analysis of the loan portfolio, management determines the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses by considering such factors as general and industry-specific market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and financial performance of our loan customers relative to their financial obligations to us. The amount of future losses is impacted by changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control. Actual losses may exceed our current estimates. Rapidly growing loan portfolios are, by their nature, unseasoned. Estimating loan loss allowances for an unseasoned portfolio is more difficult than with seasoned portfolios, and may be more susceptible to changes in estimates and to losses exceeding estimates. Although we believe the allowance for loan losses is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot fully predict such losses or assert that our loan loss allowance will be adequate in the future. Future loan losses that are greater than current estimates could have a material impact on our future financial performance. Banking regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize additional loan charge-offs, based on credit judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in the amount of our allowance or loans charged-off as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our concentration in loans secured by real estate may increase our future credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. We offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Approximately 91% of our loans are secured by real estate, both residential and commercial, substantially all of which are located in our market area. A major change in the region’s real estate market, resulting in a deterioration in real estate values, or in the local or national economy, including changes caused by raising interest rates, could adversely affect our customers’ ability to pay these loans, which in turn could adversely impact us. Risk of loan defaults and foreclosures are inherent in the banking industry, and we try to limit our exposure to this risk by carefully underwriting and monitoring our extensions of credit. We cannot fully eliminate credit risk, and as a result credit losses may occur in the future. Nonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. Until economic and market conditions improve, we expect to continue to incur additional losses relating to an increase in nonperforming loans. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans, thereby adversely affecting our income and increasing loan administration costs. When we receive collateral through foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related loan to the then fair market value of the collateral less estimated selling costs, which may result in a loss. An increase in the level of nonperforming assets also increases our risk profile and may impact the capital levels our regulators believe is appropriate in light of such risks. We utilize various techniques such as loan sales, workouts and restructurings to manage our problem assets. Decreases in the value of these problem assets, the underlying collateral, or in the borrowers’ performance or financial condition, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from management and staff, which can be detrimental to performance of their other responsibilities. Such resolution may also require the assistance of third parties, and thus the expense associated with it. There can be no assurance that we will avoid further increases in nonperforming loans in the future. 13 Table of Contents We may incur losses if we are unable to successfully manage interest rate risk. Our future profitability will substantially depend upon our ability to maintain or increase the spread between the interest rates earned on investments and loans and interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates will affect our operating performance and financial condition. The shape of the yield curve can also impact net interest income. Changing rates will impact how fast our mortgage loans and mortgage backed securities will have the principal repaid. Rate changes can also impact the behavior of our depositors, especially depositors in non-maturity deposits such as demand, interest checking, savings and money market accounts. While we attempt to minimize our exposure to interest rate risk, we are unable to eliminate it as it is an inherent part of our business. Our net interest spread will depend on many factors that are partly or entirely outside our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and industry-specific conditions and economic conditions generally. We expect to enter into a written agreement with our banking regulators, which will require us to designate a significant amount of resources to comply with the agreement. We have worked closely with our regulators as we have attempted to address the issues involved in integrating the four predecessor banks and their different cultures and concerns with asset quality and the uncertainty of the real estate markets and general economy in our markets. In light of these discussions, and as a result of the regulators’ examinations, we expect that we will enter into a written agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond and Virginia’s Bureau of Financial Institutions in the second quarter of 2011. At this time, we expect that the contents of such an action will include provisions that address, among other matters, our development of credit risk management practices appropriate for our size, complexity and risk profile and the enhancement of our overall system for managing credit risk. A written agreement will require us to take certain actions, including the adoption of written plans or programs to address these issues that must be approved by regulators and implemented promptly upon receipt of such approval. We expect the written agreement to also address formally the ability of management and our Board of Directors to properly oversee the remediation of identified issues. We have thoroughly reviewed current management and Board skills and continue to develop and implement enhanced corporate governance structures and principles. We expect that our management and Board will continue to devote considerable time and attention on taking corrective actions to comply with the terms of the anticipated written agreement. There also is no guarantee that we will successfully address the regulators’ concerns in the written agreement or that we will be able to comply with it. If we do not comply with the written agreement, we could be subject to the assessment of civil monetary penalties, further regulatory sanctions and/or regulatory enforcement actions. We are not paying dividends on shares of our common stock or preferred stock and are deferring interest payments with respect to our trust preferred securities, and we may not be able to pay future dividends. In 2010, we suspended the payment of dividends with respect to shares of our common stock, and we began to defer dividend payments with respect to the preferred stock that we issued to the United States Department of Treasury in connection with our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program and interest payments with respect to our trust preferred securities. We are not able to make any of these payments until our financial position improves, and we expect that the written agreement described above will require written regulatory approval before we are able to recommence them. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is limited by general regulatory restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient capital in our organization. The ability of our bank subsidiary to pay dividends to us is limited by the Bank’s obligations to maintain sufficient capital, earnings and liquidity and by other general restrictions on dividends under federal and state bank regulatory requirements. Dividend payments on our preferred stock and interest payments on our trust preferred securities are cumulative and, therefore, unpaid payments will accumulate and compound on each subsequent dividend payment date. If the dividends on the preferred stock have not been paid for an aggregate of six quarterly dividend periods or more, whether or not consecutive, our authorized number of 14 Table of Contents directors will be automatically increased by two and the holders of the preferred stock will have the right to elect those directors at our next annual meeting or at a special meeting called for that purpose. These two directors will be elected annually and will serve until all unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods have been declared and paid in full. Furthermore, we cannot pay dividends on our outstanding shares of preferred stock or our common stock until we have paid in full all deferred interest payments on our trust preferred securities. The Company has deferred the August 2010, November 2010, and February 2011 payments of its regular quarterly cash dividend with respect to its preferred stock Accordingly, there is no assurance that we will be able to resume paying cash dividends. Even if we are allowed to resume paying dividends again, the future payment of cash dividends on our common stock, if any, will be subject to the prior payment of all unpaid dividends and deferred interest on our preferred stock and trust preferred securities. We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, and not security holders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in light of the recent performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector. The Act includes, among other things, changes to the deposit insurance and financial regulatory systems, enhanced bank capital requirements and new requirements designed to protect consumers in financial transactions. Many of these provisions are subject to rule making procedures and studies that will be conducted in the future, and thus the full effects of the legislation on us cannot yet be determined. Other changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. These provisions, or any other aspects of current proposed regulatory or legislative changes to laws applicable to the financial industry, if enacted or adopted, may impact the profitability of our business activities or change certain of our business practices, including our ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans, and achieve satisfactory interest spreads, and could expose us to additional costs, including increased compliance costs. These changes also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes to our operations in order to comply, and could therefore also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may need to raise capital that may not ultimately be available to us. Regulatory authorities require us to maintain certain levels of capital to support our operations. While we remained “well capitalized” at December 31, 2010, additional losses that we may incur in the future may require us to raise capital. The ability to raise capital, if needed, will depend in part on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise capital, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise capital when needed, our ability to increase our capital ratios could be materially impaired, and we could face regulatory challenges. In addition, if we issue equity capital, it may be at a lower price and in all cases our existing stockholders’ interests would be diluted. The realization of the benefits of the FDIC shared-loss agreements depends on our compliance with the agreements. Under the shared-loss agreements into which we entered in January 2009, the FDIC will reimburse us for 80% of losses arising from covered loans and foreclosed real estate assets on the first $118 million in losses of such covered loans and foreclosed real estate assets and for 95% of losses on covered loans and foreclosed real estate assets thereafter. The shared-loss agreements include a number of obligations for us, including, for example, the submission of detailed certificates, on a monthly basis for losses on single family one-to-four residential mortgage loans and on a quarterly basis for losses on other covered assets, for the FDIC’s review. Because the shared-loss agreements subject us to a number of contractual requirements, we must implement effective internal processes over covered assets (including consistency in the treatment of covered and non-covered assets) to maintain the guaranty that the FDIC has agreed to provide, which underpins the FDIC indemnification asset, which totaled $58.4 million at December 31, 2010. Any failure to comply with the contractual requirements of the shared-loss agreements may lead to the revocation of the agreements, which would necessitate the write-off of the related indemnification asset and the receivable that we carry on our balance sheet for amounts that we have billed the FDIC. 15 Table of Contents We have identified material weaknesses and significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of our financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. As set forth in this Form 10-K, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting cited a material weakness with respect to our identification of “impaired loans” under applicable regulatory and accounting guidance. Additional information on this issue is disclosed in Item 9A below. Despite efforts to strengthen our internal and disclosure controls, we may identify additional other internal or disclosure control deficiencies in the future. Any failure to maintain effective controls or timely effect any necessary improvement of our internal and disclosure controls could, among other things, result in losses from fraud or error, harm our reputation or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. We can give no assurances that our deferred tax asset will not become impaired in the future because it is based on projections of future earnings, which are subject to uncertainty and estimates that may change based on economic conditions. We can give no assurances that our deferred tax asset will not become impaired in the future. At December 31, 2010, we recorded net deferred income tax assets of $9.3 million. We assess the realization of deferred income tax assets and record a valuation allowance if it is “more likely than not” that we will not realize all or a portion of the deferred tax asset. We consider all available evidence, both positive and negative, to determine whether, based on the weight of that evidence, we need a valuation allowance. Management’s assessment is primarily dependent on historical taxable income and projections of future taxable income, which are directly related to our core earnings capacity and our prospects to generate core earnings in the future. Projections of core earnings and taxable income are inherently subject to uncertainty and estimates that may change given an uncertain economic outlook and current banking industry conditions. Due to the uncertainty of estimates and projections, it is possible that we will be required to record adjustments to the valuation allowance in future reporting periods. A substantial decline in the value of our securities portfolio may result in an “other-than-temporary” impairment charge. The total amount of our available-for-sale securities portfolio was $215.6 million at December 31, 2010. The measurement of the fair value of these securities involves significant judgment due to the complexity of the factors contributing to the measurement. Market volatility makes measurement of the fair value of our securities portfolio even more difficult and subjective. More generally, as market conditions continue to be volatile, we cannot provide assurance with respect to the amount of future unrealized losses in the portfolio. To the extent that any portion of the unrealized losses in these portfolios is determined to be other than temporary, and the loss is related to credit factors, we would recognize a charge to our earnings in the quarter during which such determination is made, and our capital ratios could be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents The failure of our Board and management to implement and maintain effective risk management programs may adversely affect our operations. As a banking organization, we are exposed to a variety of risks across our operations. We define risk generally as the danger of not achieving our financial, operating, or strategic goals as planned. As a result, to ensure our long-term corporate success, we must effectively identify and analyze risks and then manage or mitigate them through appropriate control measures. We have developed a plan to establish and maintain effective risk management programs to address oversight, control, and supervision of management, major operations and activities across our functional areas. We believe that this plan enables us to recognize and analyze risks early on and to take the appropriate action. It is important to note that our organization has grown substantially over the past two years. In May 2008, we merged with each of BOE, the then holding company for the Bank, and TFC, the holding company for TransCommunity Bank, N.A., and, in July 2008, TransCommunity Bank merged into the Bank. In November 2008, the Bank acquired certain assets and assumed all deposit liabilities of TCB and, in January 2009, the Bank acquired certain assets and assumed all deposit liabilities of SFSB. This significant growth has put considerable strain on our organizational structure and the effectiveness of risk management programs that are appropriate for the various functions of an organization of our size and complexity. Furthermore, this growth has strained our control structure, including the structure that supports the effective application of policies and the execution of procedures within the operation of financial reporting controls. We have put in place internal remediation plans that address concerns that have arisen in maintaining the effectiveness of our risk management programs. While our Board and management are working diligently to ensure that our organization implements and maintains effective risk management programs, any failure to do so may adversely affect our operations. As a result, we may not be able to achieve our financial, operational and strategic goals. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 24 months. Recently, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We may be adversely impacted by changes in the condition of financial markets. We are directly and indirectly affected by changes in market conditions. Market risk generally represents the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. Market risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations and activities including loans, deposits, securities, short-term borrowings, long-term debt, trading account assets and liabilities, and derivatives. Just a few of the market conditions that may shift from time to time, thereby exposing us to market risk, include fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates, equity and futures prices, and price deterioration or changes in value due to changes in market perception or actual credit quality of issuers. Accordingly, depending on the instruments or activities impacted, market risks can have adverse effects on our results of operations and our overall financial condition. Banking regulators have broad enforcement power, but regulations are meant to protect depositors, and not investors. We are subject to supervision by several governmental regulatory agencies, including the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond and Virginia’s Bureau of Financial Institutions. Bank regulations, and the interpretation and application of them by regulators, are beyond our control, may change rapidly and unpredictably and can be expected to influence earnings and growth. In addition, these regulations may limit our growth and the return to investors by restricting activities such as the payment of dividends, mergers with, or 17 Table of Contents acquisitions by, other institutions, investments, loans and interest rates, interest rates paid on deposits and the opening of new branch offices. Although these regulations impose costs on us, they are intended to protect depositors, and should not be assumed to protect the interest of shareholders. The regulations to which we are subject may not always be in the best interest of investors. A loss of our senior officers could impair our relationship with our customers and adversely affect our business. Many community banks attract customers based on the personal relationships that the banks’ officers and customers establish with each other and the confidence that the customers have in the officers. We depend on the performance of our senior officers. These officers have many years of experience in the banking industry and have numerous contacts in our market area. The loss of the services of any of our senior officers, or the failure of any of them to perform management functions in the manner anticipated by our board of directors, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success will be dependent upon the board’s ability to attract and retain quality personnel, including these individuals. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may cause our earnings to decrease. Since the financial crisis began several years ago, an increasing number of bank failures have imposed significant costs on the FDIC in resolving those failures, and the regulator’s deposit insurance fund has been depleted. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC has increased, and may increase in the future, assessment rates of insured institutions, including the Bank. Deposits are insured by the FDIC, subject to limits and conditions or applicable law and the FDIC’s regulations. Pursuant to the Dodd Frank Act, FDIC insurance coverage limits were permanently increased to $250,000 per customer. The Dodd-Frank Act also provides for unlimited FDIC insurance coverage for noninterest-bearing demand deposit accounts for a two-year period beginning on December 31, 2010 and ending on December 31, 2012. The FDIC administers the deposit insurance fund, and all insured depository institutions are required to pay assessments to the FDIC that fund the deposit insurance fund. The Dodd-Frank Act changed the methodology for calculating deposit insurance assessments by changing the assessment base from the amount of an insured depository institution’s domestic deposits to its total assets minus tangible equity. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC issued a new regulation implementing revisions to the assessment system mandated by the Financial Reform Act. The new regulation will be effective April 1, 2011 and will be reflected in the June 30, 2011 FDIC fund balance and the invoices for assessments due September 30, 2011. As a result of the new regulations, we expect to incur higher annual deposit insurance assessments than we historically incurred before the financial crisis began several years ago. While the burden of replenishing the DIF will be placed primarily on institutions with assets of greater than $10 billion, any future increases in required deposit insurance premiums or other bank industry fees could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to executive compensation restrictions because of our participation in the Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program. As a participant in the Capital Purchase Program, we are subject to the Department of the Treasury’s standards for executive compensation and governance for the period during which the Department of the Treasury holds the preferred stock that we issued under this program. These standards generally apply to the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, plus the next three most highly compensated executive officers and can also apply to a number of our other employees. The standards include requirements to recover certain bonus payments if they were based on materially inaccurate financial statements or performance metric criteria, prohibitions on making certain golden parachute payments, prohibitions on paying or accruing certain bonus payments, except as otherwise permitted by the rules, prohibitions on maintaining any plan for senior executive officers that encourages such officers to take unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten our value, prohibitions on maintaining any employee compensation plan that encourages the manipulation of reported earnings to enhance the compensation of any employee and prohibitions on providing certain tax gross-ups. These restrictions and standards could limit our ability to recruit and retain executive officers. In addition, while we believe that we have taken and continue to take the steps necessary to comply with the standards described above, we cannot make any assurance that the Department of the Treasury or our other regulators will agree that we have in every instance. As a result, we cannot make any assurances as to any penalties that the regulatory agencies may assess if we are deemed to have violated any of the standards above. Such penalties may include civil and criminal penalties and restitution of certain payments that we have made. 18 Table of Contents Our businesses and earnings are impacted by governmental, fiscal and monetary policy. We are affected by domestic monetary policy. For example, the Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States and its policies determine in large part our cost of funds for lending, investing and capital raising activities and the return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. The actions of the Federal Reserve Board also can materially affect the value of financial instruments we hold, such as loans and debt securities, and its policies also can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Our businesses and earnings also are affected by the fiscal or other policies that are adopted by various regulatory authorities of the United States. Changes in fiscal or monetary policy are beyond our control and hard to predict. Our profitability and the value of any equity investment in us may suffer because of rapid and unpredictable changes in the highly regulated environment in which we operate. We are subject to extensive supervision by several governmental regulatory agencies at the federal and state levels. Recently enacted, proposed and future banking and other legislation and regulations have had, and will continue to have, or may have a significant impact on the financial services industry. These regulations, which are generally intended to protect depositors and not our shareholders, and the interpretation and application of them by federal and state regulators, are beyond our control, may change rapidly and unpredictably, and can be expected to influence our earnings and growth. Our success depends on our continued ability to maintain compliance with these regulations. Many of these regulations increase our costs and thus place other financial institutions that may not be subject to similar regulation in stronger, more favorable competitive positions. The trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. Although our common stock is listed for trading on NYSE Amex (formerly known as NYSE Alternext US), the trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As previously reported, on September 30, 2009, the Company received a comment letter from the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Staff”) with respect to the disclosures in certain of its periodic reports filed in 2009, and the Company has received follow-up comment letters with respect to periodic reports filed in 2009 and 2010. The Company has addressed the Staff’s comments in this Form 10-K and in the following documents: • amendments to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for each of the first three quarters of 2009, as filed on March 3, 2011; • an amendment to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 (the “2008 Form 10-K”), as filed on January 14, 2011; • an amendment to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, as filed on January 14, 2011; and • supplemental information that the Company has provided the Staff. The Company has represented to the Staff that it will file an additional amendment to the 2008 Form 10-K in order to address the following two unresolved comments: • The Company will include a “restatement” note to the financial statements to quantify expressly changes in line items on its consolidated financial statements for the period ended December 31, 2008, following adjustments that the Company has previously made to correct valuation errors in the fair value of stock options issued by the Company in settlement of the TFC and BOE stock options outstanding as of the respective merger dates. • The Company will disclose a new material weakness as of December 31, 2008, and the remediation of it, related to the omission of certain financial and other information related to the Company’s predecessors (TFC and BOE) from the original 2008 Form 10-K. The Company believes that, with the filing of the additional amendment to the 2008 Form 10-K, there will be no unresolved written comments from the Staff with respect to Company’s periodic or current reports. 19 Table of Contents 