Item 1A. Risk Factors. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements concerning the conditions in our industry, expected cost savings, our operations, our economic performance and financial condition, including, in particular, statements relating to our business and growth strategy and product development efforts. The words “may,” “might,” “will,” “should,” “estimate,” “project,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend,” “outlook,” “believe” and other similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements and information. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates and assumptions by our management that, although we believe to be reasonable, are inherently uncertain and subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, those identified under the captions “Business,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report before making an investment decision. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as otherwise required by law. Risks Relating to Our Business If generic products that compete with any of our branded pharmaceutical products are approved and sold, sales of our products will be adversely affected. Generic equivalents for branded pharmaceutical products are typically sold by competing companies at a lower cost than the branded product. After the introduction of a competing generic product, a significant percentage of the prescriptions written for the branded product are often written for the generic version. In addition, legislation enacted in most states in the United States allows or, in some instances mandates, that a pharmacist dispense an available generic equivalent when filling a prescription for a branded product, in the absence of specific instructions from the prescribing physician. As a result, branded products typically experience a significant loss in revenues following the introduction of a competing generic product. Our branded pharmaceutical products are or may become subject to competition from generic equivalents because there is no proprietary protection for some of the branded pharmaceutical products we sell, because our patent protection expires or because our patent protection is not sufficiently broad. In addition, we may not be successful in our efforts to extend the proprietary protection afforded our branded products through the development and commercialization of proprietary product improvements and new and enhanced dosage forms. Competition from generic equivalents could have a material adverse impact on our revenues, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ESTRACE Cream, ESTRACE Tablets, ESTROSTEP FE, SARAFEM, OVCON 50 and OVCON 35 are currently not protected by patents. Generic equivalents are currently available for ESTROSTEP FE, SARAFEM capsules, ESTRACE Tablets and OVCON 35. ASACOL is not currently protected by a patent in the United Kingdom. Although our U.S. patent covering FEMHRT expires in May 2010, under a 2004 settlement of certain patent litigation, we granted Barr (which is now a division of Teva ) a non-exclusive license to launch a generic version of the product six months prior to the expiration of our patent. Although Teva’s generic equivalent of FEMHRT was approved for entry into the market in November 2009 and may be launched at any time, we do not believe that Teva has commenced sales of its generic version of FEMHRT. During the next five years, additional products of ours will lose patent protection or likely become subject to generic competition. For example, our current ACTONEL products will lose their patent protection and exclusivity in Canada in early 2010 and many Western European markets beginning in late 2010. In addition, 27 Table of Contents while we enforce our legal rights against third parties when we believe that our intellectual property or other proprietary rights are infringed, we have in the past, and may in the future, enter into settlements with generic competitors that result in sale of generic products prior to the expiration of our patents. For example, as a result of our settlements of our outstanding patent litigation relating to LOESTRIN 24 FE and FEMCON FE, we granted non-exclusive licenses to third-parties to launch generic versions of these products during the next five years. More specifically, in January 2009, we settled patent litigation related to LOESTRIN 24 FE with Watson. Under the agreement, Watson was permitted to commence marketing its generic equivalent product on the earlier of January 22, 2014 or the date on which another generic version of LOESTRIN 24 FE enters the U.S. market. In July 2009, we received a Paragraph IV certification notice letter from Lupin advising us that Lupin had filed an ANDA to manufacture and sell a generic version of LOESTRIN 24 FE. In September 2009, we filed an infringement lawsuit against Lupin in response to its submission. Our lawsuit results in a stay of FDA approval of Lupin’s ANDA for 30 months from the date of our receipt of Lupin’s notice, subject to the prior resolution of the matter before the court. Under current law, unless Watson forfeits its “first filer” status, the FDA may not approve Lupin’s ANDA until 180 days following the date on which Watson enters the market. We believe Watson may have forfeited its “first filer” status as a result of its failure to receive approval of its ANDA from the FDA within the requisite period. As a result, while we have filed an infringement suit against Lupin and intend to vigorously defend the LOESTRIN 24 LE patent and pursue our legal rights, we can offer no assurance as to when the lawsuit will be decided, whether the lawsuit will be successful or that a generic equivalent product will not be approved and enter the market prior to the expiration of the LOESTRIN 24 FE patent in 2014. In December 2008, we settled our patent litigation related to FEMCON FE with Barr (now Teva). Under the terms of the agreement, Teva was not permitted to enter the market until the earlier of July 1, 2012 or, among other circumstances, the date that is two years following the date of the filing of a new ANDA with a Paragraph IV certification by a third-party. In January 2009, we announced that we settled our patent litigation related to FEMCON FE with Watson. Under the agreement, Watson was permitted to commence marketing its generic equivalent product on the earlier of 180 days after Teva enters the market with a generic equivalent product, or January 1, 2013. On July 31, 2009, we received a Paragraph IV certification notice letter from Lupin indicating that it had submitted to the FDA an ANDA seeking approval to manufacture and sell a generic version of FEMCON FE. In September 2009, we filed an infringement lawsuit against Lupin in response to its submission. Our lawsuit results in a stay of FDA approval of Lupin’s ANDA for 30 months from the date of our receipt of Lupin’s notice, subject to the prior resolution of the matter before the court. If Lupin filed its ANDA with respect to FEMCON FE during 2009 and Teva’s ANDA with respect to a generic version of FEMCON FE is approved, Teva may be able to enter the market with a generic version of FEMCON FE as early as 2011. While we have filed an infringement lawsuit against Lupin and intend to vigorously defend the FEMCON FE patent and pursue our legal rights, we can offer no assurance as to when the lawsuit will be decided, whether the lawsuit will be successful or that a generic equivalent will not be approved and enter the market prior to the expiration of the FEMCON FE patent in 2019. As noted above, potential generic competitors may challenge the patents protecting our branded pharmaceutical products. For example, we and Mayne have received several challenges relating to our DORYX products. As a result of the enactment of the QI Act, on October 8, 2008, Mayne submitted to the FDA for listing in the FDA’s Orange Book the U.S. patent covering DORYX, and potential generic competitors that had filed an ANDA prior to the listing of the DORYX patent were permitted to certify to the listed patent within 120 days of the enactment of the QI Act. In November and December 2008 and January 2009, we and Mayne received Paragraph IV certification notice letters from Actavis, Mutual, Mylan, Impax and Sandoz indicating that each had submitted to the FDA an ANDA seeking approval to manufacture and sell generic versions of our DORYX 75 mg and 100 mg delayed-release tablets. In December 2008 and January 2009, we and Mayne filed infringement lawsuits against each of the potential generic competitors. In March 2009 the FDA issued guidance that indicated that a 30-month stay would not apply to the potential approvals of generic versions of our DORYX 75 mg and 100 mg products for which ANDAs were filed prior to the listing of the DORYX patent. On November 9, 2009, pursuant to an agreement among the Company, Mayne and Mutual, the court dismissed the lawsuit against Mutual concerning generic versions of the DORYX 75 mg and 100 mg products following Mutual’s agreement to withdraw its ANDA with respect to such products. In March 2009, we and Mayne 28 Table of Contents received Paragraph IV certification notice letters from Impax and Mylan indicating that each had submitted to the FDA an ANDA seeking approval to manufacture and sell a generic version of our DORYX 150 mg delayed-release tablets. In March and May 2009 we and Mayne filed infringement lawsuits against each Impax and Mylan. In February 2010, we and Mayne received a Paragraph IV certification notice letter from Heritage indicating that it had submitted to the FDA an ANDA seeking approval to manufacture and sell a generic version of our DORYX 75 mg, 100 mg and 150 mg products. We and Mayne are reviewing the Heritage notice letter and expect to file an infringement lawsuit against Heritage within 45 days of our receipt of the Paragraph IV certification notice. Based on the FDA’s interpretive guidance, and assuming that we and Mayne bring suit against Heritage within the requisite period, we believe that because each of Impax’s and Mylan’s ANDAs with respect to generic versions of our DORYX 150 mg product, and Heritage’s ANDA with respect to generic versions of our DORYX 75 mg, 100 mg, and 150 mg products, were submitted after the listing of the DORYX patent in the FDA’s Orange Book, the FDA will stay approval of these generic versions of our products for up to 30 months, subject to the prior resolution of the matters before the court. In January 2010 we and Mayne received a Paragraph IV certification notice letter from Sandoz indicating that it had amended its ANDA previously submitted to the FDA requesting approval to manufacture and sell generic versions of our DORYX 75 mg and 100 mg products to include a generic version of our DORYX 150 mg product. In January 2010 we and Mayne filed an infringement lawsuit against Sandoz with respect to its amended ANDA. While we can give no assurance, we believe that under current law, the FDA may not approve Sandoz’s amended ANDA with respect to the DORYX 150 mg strength product until 180 days following the date on which the “first filer” of an ANDA with respect to the DORYX 150 mg strength product enters the market, unless the first filer transfers or forfeits its first filer rights, for example by failing to begin marketing its product in a timely manner. Our lawsuits against Actavis, Mylan, Impax and Sandoz relating to our DORYX 75 mg and 100 mg products, as well as our lawsuits against Impax, Mylan and Sandoz relating to our DORYX 150 mg product, remain pending. While we and Mayne intend to vigorously defend the DORYX patent and pursue our legal rights, we can offer no assurance as to when the lawsuits will be decided, whether the lawsuits will be successful or that a generic equivalent of our DORYX 75 mg, 100 mg and 150 mg products will not be approved and enter the market prior to the expiration of the DORYX patent in 2022. Certain of the products we acquired in the PGP Acquisition have also been challenged by generic competitors. For example, in July 2004, PGP received a Paragraph IV certification notice letter from Teva regarding PGP’s NCE patent covering ACTONEL and indicating that Teva had submitted to the FDA an ANDA seeking approval to manufacture and sell generic versions of ACTONEL. PGP filed a patent infringement suit against Teva in August 2004. In that case, Teva admitted patent infringement but alleged that the NCE patent was invalid and, in February 2008, the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware decided in favor of PGP, upholding the ACTONEL NCE patent as valid and enforceable. Teva appealed, and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit unanimously upheld the decision of the District Court in May 2009. PGP and Roche received Paragraph IV certification notice letters from Teva, Sun and Apotex regarding the ACTONEL Method Patent (not the NCE patent) covering ACTONEL’s once-a-month product and indicating that each such company had submitted to the FDA an ANDA seeking approval to manufacture and sell generic versions of the once-a-month ACTONEL product. PGP and Roche, which licenses the ACTONEL Method Patent to PGP, filed a patent infringement suit against Teva in September 2008, against Sun in January 2009 and against Apotex in March 2009 charging each with infringement of the ACTONEL Method Patent. The suit against Teva (which delivered the first Paragraph IV certification notice letter to PGP) triggered a 30-month stay of FDA approval with respect to Teva’s above mentioned ANDA. The stay of approval of Teva’s ANDA will expire on the earlier of February 2011 or the resolution of the suit. Additionally, once-a-month ACTONEL 150 mg has FDA exclusivity through April 2011, and the underlying ACTONEL NCE patent expires in June 2014 (including a 6-month pediatric extension of regulatory exclusivity). While we and Roche intend to vigorously defend the ACTONEL Method Patent and pursue our legal rights, we can offer no assurance as to when the lawsuits will be decided, whether the lawsuits will be successful or that a generic equivalent of the ACTONEL once-a-month product will not be approved and enter the market prior to the expiration of the ACTONEL Method Patent in 2023. 29 Table of Contents In addition in September 2007, PGP and Medeva received a Paragraph IV certification notice letter from Roxane, a subsidiary of Boehringher Ingelheim Corporation, regarding the ASACOL Patent indicating that Roxane had submitted to the FDA an ANDA seeking approval to manufacture and sell a generic version of the ASACOL 400 mg product. PGP and Medeva, the owner of the ASACOL Patent, filed a patent infringement suit against Roxane in October 2007. The lawsuit results in a stay of FDA approval of Roxane’s ANDA for up to 30 months from the date of PGP’s and Medeva’s receipt of the notice (i.e. until March 2010), subject to the prior resolution of the matter before the court. The trial has not been scheduled. However, unless the court decides earlier in its favor, Roxane has agreed not to launch a generic version of the ASACOL 400 mg product before November 1, 2010. In addition, Roxane has agreed that if the case is fully submitted to the court by November 1, 2010, it will not launch until the court decides the case. While we and Medeva intend to vigorously defend the ASACOL Patent and pursue our legal rights, we can offer no assurance as to when the lawsuit will be decided, whether the lawsuit will be successful or that a generic equivalent of the ASACOL 400 mg product will not be approved and enter the market prior to the expiration of the ASACOL Patent in 2013. We cannot predict what effect, if any, such matters will have on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property are valuable assets, and if we are unable to protect them from infringement or challenges, our business prospects may be harmed. Due to our focus on branded products, we consider our trademarks to be valuable assets. Therefore, we actively manage our trademark portfolio, maintain long-standing trademarks and obtain trademark registrations for new brands. We also police our trademark portfolio against infringement. Our efforts to defend our trademarks may be unsuccessful and we may not have adequate remedies in the event of a finding of infringement due, for example, to the fact that a violating company may be insolvent. We also rely on patents, trade secrets and proprietary knowledge to protect our products. We take steps to protect our proprietary rights by filing applications for patents on certain inventions, by entering into confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment of invention agreements with our employees, consultants, licensees and other companies and enforcing our legal rights against third parties that we believe may infringe our intellectual property rights. We do not ultimately control whether we will be successful in enforcing our legal rights against third-party infringers, whether our patent applications will result in issued patents, whether our patents will be subjected to inter parte reexamination by the USPTO, whether our confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment of invention agreements will be breached and whether we will have adequate remedies in the event of any such breach, or whether our trade secrets will become known by competitors. We are today, and have in the past been, involved in litigation with respect to the validity and infringement of our patents. In addition, we may be involved in such litigation in the future. The outcome of this type of litigation is unpredictable, and if unfavorable, may deprive us of market exclusivity or from marketing and selling a product altogether. In addition, bringing and defending these lawsuits is costly, and consequently we may decide to not bring or defend such suits and to abandon the products to which they relate. If we lose market exclusivity for or stop marketing a product, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Delays in production could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our pharmaceutical manufacturing facility located in Fajardo, Puerto Rico currently manufactures many of our products, including LOESTRIN 24 FE and FEMCON FE, and packages our delayed-release DORYX tablets and FEMHRT. The PGP facilities we acquired in Manati, Puerto Rico and Weiterstadt, Germany currently manufacture many of the PGP products we acquired in the PGP Acquisition, including ACTONEL and ASACOL. Because the manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires precise and reliable controls, and due to significant compliance obligations imposed by laws and regulations, we may face delays in qualifying the Fajardo, Manati and Weiterstadt facilities for the manufacture of new products or for our other products that are currently manufactured for us by third parties. In addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods, fires and 30 Table of Contents earthquakes could adversely affect the ability of our manufacturing facilities to supply products to us. Hurricanes are relatively common in Puerto Rico and the severity of such natural disasters is unpredictable. In addition, certain of our pharmaceutical products are currently manufactured for us under contracts with third parties. Our contract manufacturers may not be able to manufacture our products without interruption and may not comply with their obligations under our various supply arrangements, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Our contract manufacturers have occasionally been unable to meet all of our orders, which has led to the depletion of our safety stock and temporary shortages of trade supply and promotional samples. Failure by our own manufacturing facilities or any third-party manufacturer (each a “product supplier”) to comply with regulatory requirements could adversely affect their ability to supply products to us. All facilities and manufacturing techniques used for the manufacture of pharmaceutical products must be operated in conformity with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMPs. In complying with cGMP requirements, product suppliers must continually expend time, money and effort in production, record-keeping and quality assurance and control to ensure that their products meet applicable specifications and other requirements for product safety, efficacy and quality. Manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Failure to comply with applicable legal requirements (including, in the case of our manufacturing facility located in Fajardo, certain obligations that we assumed in our purchase of the facility arising out of a consent decree entered into by the previous owner) subjects the product suppliers to possible legal or regulatory action, including shutdown, which may adversely affect their ability to supply us with product. The FDA and other regulatory authorities must approve suppliers of certain active and inactive pharmaceutical ingredients and certain packaging materials used in our products as well as suppliers of finished products. The development and regulatory approval of our products are dependent upon our ability to procure these ingredients, packaging materials and finished products from suppliers approved by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Such approval of a new supplier would be required if, for example, active ingredients, packaging materials or finished products were no longer available from the initially approved supplier or if that supplier had its approval from the FDA or other regulatory authority withdrawn. The qualification of a new product supplier or a new supplier of product components could potentially delay the manufacture of the drug involved. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain active ingredients, packaging materials or finished products from a new supplier on terms that are as favorable to us as those agreed to with the initially approved supplier or at reasonable prices. A delay in supplying, or failure to supply, products by any product supplier could result in our inability to meet the demand for our products, the loss of all or a portion of our market share with respect to such products, and adversely affect our revenues, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Pricing pressures from third-party payors, including managed care organizations, government sponsored health systems and regulations relating to Medicare and Medicaid, healthcare reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement and pricing in general could decrease our U.S. revenues. Our commercial success in producing, marketing and selling products in the United States depends, in part, on the availability of adequate reimbursement from third-party healthcare payors, such as managed care organizations and government bodies and agencies for the cost of the products and related treatments. The market for our products may be limited by actions of third-party payors. Managed care organizations and other third-party payors try to negotiate the pricing of medical services and products to control their costs, including by developing formularies to encourage plan beneficiaries to utilize preferred products for which the plans have negotiated favorable terms. Exclusion of a product from a formulary, or placement of a product on a disfavored formulary tier, can lead to sharply reduced usage in the managed care 31 Table of Contents organization patient population. If our products are not included within an adequate number of formularies or if adequate reimbursements are not provided, or if reimbursement policies increasingly favor generic products, our market share and business could be negatively affected. Reforms in Medicare added an out-patient prescription drug reimbursement beginning in 2006 for all Medicare beneficiaries. Private plans contracting with the government to deliver the benefit, through their purchasing power under these programs, are demanding discounts from pharmaceutical companies that may implicitly create price controls on prescription drugs. These reforms may decrease our future revenues from products such as ACTONEL, which are covered by the Medicare drug benefit. We also face pricing pressures and potential pricing pressures for our drug products reimbursed under the Medicaid program. Most states have established preferred drug lists (“PDLs”) and require that manufacturers pay supplemental rebates, in addition to the federal rebate, to the state in order to be included in the PDL or to avoid being placed in a disfavored position on the state formulary. Further, a number of other legislative and regulatory measures aimed at changing the healthcare system have been proposed, including federal proposals to permit the U.S. government to use its purchasing power to negotiate further discounts from pharmaceutical companies under Medicare, and proposals to increase the federal rebates we must pay to the states based on the utilization of our products under Medicaid. In addition, Congress is considering various other legislative proposals that generally are intended to expand healthcare coverage to currently uninsured Americans and to limit the rate of increase in healthcare spending. While we cannot predict whether any such proposals will be adopted or the effect such proposals may have on our business, the existence of such proposals, as well as the adoption of any proposal, may increase industry-wide pricing pressures or increase the cost of doing business (for example by imposing taxes on pharmaceutical manufacturers), thereby adversely affecting our results of operations and cash flows. Government regulation in the European Union of the price and reimbursement status of medicinal products could limit market acceptance of our products or reduce the prices we receive for our products. Most European Union member states impose controls on the prices at which medicines are reimbursed under state-run healthcare schemes. In many countries reimbursement of a product is conditional on the agreement by the seller not to sell the product above a fixed price in that country. Often the reimbursement price is established unilaterally by the national authorities and is accompanied by the inclusion of the product on a list of reimbursable products. Some member states operate reference pricing systems in which they set national reimbursement prices by reference to those in other member states. Increased pressures to reduce government healthcare spending and increased transparency of prices following the adoption of the euro have meant that an increasing number of governments have adopted this approach. Furthermore, in the event of increased price transparency or the loss of exclusivity, such as our expected loss of exclusivity for ACTONEL in many Western European markets in late 2010, parallel importation of pharmaceuticals from lower price level countries to higher priced markets may increase and lower our effective average selling price. Taxing authorities could reallocate our taxable income among our subsidiaries, which could increase our consolidated tax liability, and changes in tax laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We conduct operations world-wide through subsidiaries in various tax jurisdictions. Certain aspects of the transactions between our subsidiaries, including our transfer pricing (which is the pricing we use in the transfer of products and services among our subsidiaries) and our intercompany financing arrangements, could be challenged by applicable taxing authorities. While we believe both our transfer pricing and our intercompany financing arrangements are reasonable, either or both could be challenged by the applicable taxing authorities. Following any such challenge, our taxable income could be reallocated among our subsidiaries. Such reallocation could both increase our consolidated tax liability and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 32 Table of Contents Our U.S. operating subsidiaries previously entered into an Advance Pricing Agreement (the “APA”) with the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) covering the calendar years 2006 through 2010. This APA is applicable to the U.S. subsidiaries and operations as they existed prior to the PGP Acquisition. We cannot ensure that we will be able to enter into a new APA covering calendar years after 2010 or that any new APA will contain terms comparable to those in our existing APA. If we do not enter into a new APA, while we believe that our transfer pricing arrangements comply with applicable U.S. tax rules, the IRS could challenge our transfer pricing arrangements. In addition, our future operating results, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by changes in the application of tax principles, including tax rates, new tax laws, or revised interpretations of existing tax laws and precedents, which result in a shift of taxable earnings between tax jurisdictions. Changes in market conditions, including lower than expected cash flows or revenues for our branded pharmaceutical products as a result of competition from other branded products, may result in our inability to realize the value of our products, in which case we may have to record an impairment charge. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapid product development and technological change, and as a result, our pharmaceutical products could be rendered obsolete or their value may be significantly decreased by the development of new technology or new branded pharmaceutical products indicated for the treatment of conditions currently addressed by our products, technological advances that reduce the cost of production or marketing or pricing actions by one or more of our competitors. Some of the companies we compete against have significantly greater resources than we do, and therefore, may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products than we can. Our inability to compete successfully with respect to these or other factors may materially and adversely affect our cash flows or revenues, or may result in our inability to realize the value of our branded pharmaceutical products, including products acquired from third parties, and may require us to record an impairment charge. Recent legal and regulatory requirements could make it more difficult for us to obtain new or expanded approvals for our products, and could limit or make more burdensome our ability to commercialize our approved products. The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 contains significant additional regulatory requirements affecting pharmaceutical manufacturers. The legislation grants the FDA extensive additional authority to impose post-approval clinical study and clinical trial requirements, require safety-related changes to product labeling, review advertising aimed at consumers, and require the adoption of risk management plans, referred to in the legislation as risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (“REMS”). The REMS may include requirements for special labeling or medication guides for patients, special communication plans for healthcare professionals, and restrictions on distribution and use. For example, if the FDA were to make the requisite findings, it might require that a new product be prescribed only by physicians with certain specialized training, only in certain designated healthcare settings, or only in conjunction with special patient testing and monitoring. The legislation also includes, among other new requirements, provisions requiring the disclosure to the public of certain information regarding ongoing clinical trials for drugs through a clinical trial registry and for disclosing clinical trial results to the public through a clinical trial database; renewed requirements for conducting trials to generate information on the use of products in pediatric patients; and new penalties, for such acts as false or misleading consumer drug advertising. Other proposals have been made to impose additional requirements on drug approvals, further expand post-approval requirements, and restrict sales and promotional activities. New requirements have also been imposed in some states, and proposed in other states, requiring us to provide paper or electronic pedigree information for the drugs that we distribute to help establish their authenticity and to track their movement from the manufacturer through the chain of distribution. These new 33 Table of Contents federal and state requirements, and additional requirements that have been proposed and might be adopted, may make it more difficult or burdensome for us to obtain new or expanded approvals for our products, may be more restrictive or come with onerous post-approval or other requirements, may hinder our ability to commercialize approved products successfully, and may harm our business. Delays and uncertainties in clinical trials or the government approval process for new products could result in lost market opportunities and hamper our ability to recoup costs associated with product development. FDA approval is generally required before a prescription drug can be marketed in the United States. For innovative, or non-generic, new drugs, an FDA-approved New Drug Application, or NDA, is required before the drugs may be marketed in the United States. The NDA must contain data to demonstrate that the drug is safe and effective for its intended uses, and that it will be manufactured to appropriate quality standards. Products marketed outside the United States are also subject to government regulation, which may be equally or more demanding. The clinical trials required to obtain regulatory approvals can be complex and expensive, and their outcomes are uncertain. Positive results from pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials do not ensure positive results in later clinical trials that form the basis of an application for regulatory approval. Even where clinical trials are completed successfully, the FDA or other regulatory authorities may determine that a product does not present an acceptable risk-benefit profile, and may not approve an NDA or its foreign equivalent or may only approve an NDA or its foreign equivalent with significant restrictions or conditions. The drug development and approval process can be time-consuming and expensive without assurance that the data will be adequate to justify approval of proposed new products. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for our products, we will not be able to commercialize our products and recoup our R&D costs. Furthermore, even if we were to obtain regulatory approvals, the terms of any product approval, including labeling, may be more restrictive than desired and could affect the marketability of our products, and the approvals may be contingent upon burdensome post-approval study commitments. If we are unable to obtain timely product approvals on commercially viable terms, our profitability and business could suffer. In January 2010 we received a complete response letter from the FDA indicating that during FDA inspections of the third-party drug substance manufacturing facility and control testing laboratory used to support the NDA for our low-dose oral contraceptive, which we refer to as WC3016, deficiencies were noted that remain unresolved. While no efficacy or safety issues were raised by the FDA in the letter, satisfactory resolution of these issues is required before the NDA can be approved. In addition, we are currently conducting Phase II and Phase III clinical trials and have pending NDAs for certain important products, including our next generation ACTONEL product. If these NDAs are not approved, we may not be able to commercialize these products in the United States and, in the case of our next generation ACTONEL product, may not be able to realize the full anticipated value of the PGP Acquisition. Changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Our future operating results, financial position or cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations such as (i) changes in the FDA or equivalent foreign approval processes that may cause delays in, or limit or prevent the approval of, new products, (ii) new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting product marketing, promotion or the healthcare field generally and (iii) new laws or judicial decisions affecting intellectual property rights. The perceived health effects of estrogen and combined estrogen-progestogen hormone therapy, or HT, products may affect the acceptability and commercial success of our HT products. ESTRACE Tablets, ESTRACE Cream, FEMRING and FEMTRACE are estrogen therapy products, and FEMHRT is a combined estrogen-progestogen therapy product. These HT products are used by women to alleviate symptoms associated with menopause. Studies during the last decade have analyzed the health effects of estrogen therapy and estrogen-progestogen therapy products and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists has recommended that consumers use these products in the lowest possible dose for the shortest 34 Table of Contents possible duration. We believe the publicity surrounding some of these studies resulted in a significant industry-wide decrease in the number of prescriptions being written for estrogen therapy and estrogen-progestogen therapy products, including FEMHRT. The ultimate effect of these studies, and any further changes in labeling for our products, may further affect the acceptability of our products by patients, the willingness of physicians to prescribe our products for their patients or the duration of their therapy. In any such event, our overall rate of growth may be lower. The loss of the services of members of our senior management team or scientific staff or the inability to attract and retain other highly qualified employees could impede our ability to meet our strategic objectives and adversely affect our business. Our success is dependent on attracting and retaining highly qualified scientific, sales and management staff, including our Chief Executive Officer, Roger Boissonneault. We face intense competition for personnel from other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. The loss of key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other highly qualified employees, may impede our ability to meet our strategic objectives. Pursuant to our business strategy, we intend to develop proprietary product improvements as well as new products. This strategy may require us to hire additional employees with expertise in areas that relate to product development. We cannot fully anticipate or predict the time and extent to which we will need to hire this type of specialized personnel. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel necessary to pursue our business strategy fully. In addition, if competition continues to intensify, then our cost of attracting and retaining employees may escalate. Product liability claims and product recalls could harm our business. The development, manufacture, testing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products entail significant risk of product liability claims or recalls. Our products are, in the substantial majority of cases, designed to affect important bodily functions and processes. Unforeseen side-effects caused by, or manufacturing defects inherent in, the products sold by us could result in exacerbation of a patient’s condition, further deterioration of the patient’s condition or even death. The occurrence of such an event could result in product liability claims and/or the recall of one or more of our products. Claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief for themselves or, in certain jurisdictions, by groups seeking to represent a class. For example, approximately 709 product liability suits, including some with multiple plaintiffs, have been filed against, or tendered pursuant to acquisition agreements to, us in connection with the HT products FEMHRT, ESTRACE Tablets, ESTRACE Cream and medroxyprogesterone acetate. The lawsuits were likely triggered by the July 2002 and March 2004 announcements by the National Institutes of Health (“NIH”) of the terminations of two large-scale randomized controlled clinical trials, which were part of the Women’s Health Initiative (“WHI”), examining the long-term effect of HT on the prevention of coronary heart disease and osteoporotic fractures, and any associated risk for breast cancer in postmenopausal women. In the case of the trial terminated in 2002, which examined combined estrogen and progestogen therapy (the “E&P Arm of the WHI Study”), the safety monitoring board determined that the risks of long-term estrogen and progestogen therapy exceeded the benefits, when compared to a placebo. WHI investigators found that combined estrogen and progestogen therapy did not prevent heart disease in the study subjects and despite a decrease in the incidence of hip fracture and colorectal cancer, there was an increased risk of invasive breast cancer, coronary heart disease, stroke, blood clots and dementia. In the trial terminated in 2004, which examined estrogen therapy, the trial was ended one year early because the NIH did not believe that the results were likely to change in the time remaining in the trial and that the increased risk of stroke could not be justified by the additional data that could be collected in the remaining time. As in the E&P Arm of the WHI Study, WHI investigators again found that estrogen only therapy did not prevent heart disease and although study subjects experienced fewer hip fractures and no increase in the incidence of breast cancer compared to subjects randomized to placebo, there was an increased incidence of stroke and blood clots in the legs. The estrogen used in the WHI Study was conjugated equine estrogen and the progestin was 35 Table of Contents medroxyprogesterone acetate, the compounds found in Premarin® and Prempro™, products marketed by Wyeth (now Pfizer). See “Note 19” to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Further, we may be liable for product liability, warranty or similar claims in relation to products that we acquired in the PGP Acquisition. Our agreement with P&G provides that P&G will indemnify us for 50% of the losses from any such claims pending as of October 30, 2009, subject to certain limits. One such set of claims may relate to litigation in connection with ACTONEL. Beginning in 2003, case reports in scientific literature reported a series of adverse events involving post-menopausal women who developed osteonecrosis of the jaw (“ONJ”) subsequent to alleged use of medications for osteoporosis. The majority of these reports involved multiple myeloma patients who used high doses of intravenous bisphosphonates as part of their cancer therapy. Beginning in 2006, several complaints were filed against PGP and Sanofi regarding ONJ. We are aware of 89 claimants, in 81 cases, in which we were named as a defendant. Generally, the plaintiffs allege that ACTONEL increases the risk of ONJ and that this risk was not included in the product’s warnings. Under the Collaboration Agreement, Sanofi has agreed to indemnify us, subject to certain limitations, for 50% of any losses from product liability claims related to ACTONEL, which would include losses regarding ONJ-related claims. See “Note 19” to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Product liability insurance coverage is expensive, can be difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. Our product liability insurance may not cover all the future liabilities we might incur in connection with the development, manufacture or sale of our products. In addition, we may not continue to be able to obtain insurance on satisfactory terms or in adequate amounts. We currently maintain product liability insurance coverage for claims between $25.0 million and $170.0 million, above which we are self-insured. Our insurance may not apply to damages or defense costs related to the above mentioned HT claims or the above mentioned ONJ claims, including any claim arising out of HT or ACTONEL products with labeling that does not conform completely to FDA approved labeling. A successful claim or claims brought against us in connection with our HT product liability litigation, the ONJ litigation or other matters that is in excess of available insurance coverage could subject us to significant liabilities and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Such claims could also harm our reputation and the reputation of our products, thereby adversely affecting our ability to market our products successfully. In addition, irrespective of the outcome of product liability claims, defending a lawsuit with respect to such claims could be costly and significantly divert management’s attention from operating our business. Furthermore, we could be rendered insolvent if we do not have sufficient financial resources to satisfy any liability resulting from such a claim or to fund the legal defense of such a claim. Product recalls may be issued at our discretion or at the discretion of certain of our suppliers, the FDA, other government agencies and other entities that have regulatory authority for pharmaceutical sales. From time to time, we have recalled some of our products; however, to date none of these recalls have been significant. Any recall of a significant product could materially adversely affect our business and profitability by rendering us unable to sell that product for some time. Sales of our products may be adversely affected by the consolidation among wholesale drug distributors and the growth of large retail drug store chains. The network through which we sell our products has undergone significant consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions among wholesale distributors and the growth of large retail drugstore chains. As a result, a small number of large wholesale distributors control a significant share of the market, and the number of independent drug stores and small drugstore chains has decreased. Three large wholesale distributors accounted for an aggregate of 66% of our net revenues during the year ended December 31, 2009. In addition, excess inventory levels held by large distributors may lead to periodic and unanticipated future reductions in revenues and cash flows. Consolidation of drug wholesalers and retailers, as well as any increased pricing pressure that those entities face from their customers, including the U.S. government, may increase pricing pressure and place other competitive pressures on drug manufacturers, including us. 36 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with government regulations we could be subject to fines, sanctions and penalties that could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We are subject to regulation by national, regional, state and local agencies, including, in the United States, the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Department of Justice, the Federal Trade Commission, the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and other regulatory bodies. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act and other federal and state statutes and regulations in the United States, and equivalent laws and regulations in the European Union, govern to varying degrees, the research, development, manufacturing and commercial activities relating to prescription pharmaceutical products, including pre-clinical and clinical testing, approval, production, labeling, sale, distribution, import, export, post-market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information and promotion. Our sales, marketing, research and other scientific/educational programs must also comply with the anti-kickback and fraud and abuse provisions of the Social Security Act, the False Claims Act, the privacy provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, and similar state laws. Pricing and rebate programs must comply with the Medicaid drug rebate requirements of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 and the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992. If products are made available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule of the General Services Administration, additional laws and requirements apply. All of these activities are also potentially subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws. In addition, in recent years, several states in the United States, including California, Massachusetts, Maine, Minnesota, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Mexico, Texas, Vermont and West Virginia, as well as the District of Columbia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state, make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials and other activities, and/or register their sales representatives, as well as to prohibit pharmacies and other healthcare entities from providing certain physician prescribing data to pharmaceutical companies for use in sales and marketing and prohibit certain other sales and marketing practices. Similar legislation is being considered in other states and at the federal level in the United States. Many of these requirements are new and their breadth and application are uncertain. Noncompliance with these and other government regulations and other legal requirements may result in civil fines, criminal fines and prosecution, the recall of products, the total or partial suspension of manufacture and/or distribution, seizure of products, injunctions, whistleblower lawsuits, failure to obtain approval of pending product applications, withdrawal of existing product approvals, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs and other sanctions. Any threatened or actual government enforcement action can also generate adverse publicity and require that we devote substantial resources that could be used productively on other aspects of our business. Any of these enforcement actions could affect our ability to commercially distribute our products and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to successfully identify, develop, acquire, license or market new products as part of growing our business. In order to grow and achieve success in our business, we must continually identify, develop, acquire and license new products that we can ultimately market. Any future growth through new product acquisitions will be dependent upon the continued availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. Even if such opportunities are present, we may not be able to successfully identify products as candidates for potential acquisition, licensing, development or collaborative arrangements. Moreover, other companies, many of which may have substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, are competing with us for the right to acquire such products. If an acquisition candidate is identified, the third parties with whom we seek to cooperate may not select us as a potential partner or we may not be able to enter into arrangements on commercially reasonable terms or at 37 Table of Contents all. Furthermore, we do not know if we will be able to finance the acquisition or integrate an acquired product into our existing operations. The negotiation and completion of potential acquisitions could result in a significant diversion of management’s time and resources and potentially disrupt our ongoing business. Future product acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in interest expense and amortization expenses, as well as significant charges relating to integration costs. At each stage between developing or sourcing new products and marketing these products, there are a number of risks and uncertainties, and failure at any stage could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve commercial success with a product or to maintain or increase revenues, profits and cash flow. In addition, if we are unable to manage the challenges surrounding product development, acquisitions or the successful integration of acquisitions, it could have materially adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Prescription drug importation from Canada and other countries could increase pricing pressure on certain of our products and could decrease our revenues and profit margins. Under current U.S. law, U.S. individuals may import prescription drugs that are unavailable in the United States from Canada and other countries for their personal use under specified circumstances. Other imports, although illegal under U.S. law, also enter the country as a result of the resource constraints and enforcement priorities of the FDA and the U.S. Customs Service. The volume of prescription drug imports from Canada and elsewhere could increase due to a variety of factors, including the further spread of Internet pharmacies and actions by certain state and local governments to facilitate Canadian and other imports. These imports may harm our business. We currently sell a number of products, including ACTONEL, ASACOL, FEMHRT and MACROBID in Canada. In addition, ESTRACE Tablets are sold in Canada by third parties. Due to government price regulation in Canada and other countries, these products are generally sold in Canada and other countries for lower prices than in the United States. As a result, if these drugs are imported into the United States from Canada or elsewhere, we may experience reduced revenue or profit margins. We have a significant amount of intangible assets, which may never generate the returns we expect. Our identifiable intangible assets, which include trademarks and trade names, license agreements and patents acquired in acquisitions (including the PGP Acquisition), were $3,302.4 million at December 31, 2009, representing approximately 54.8% of our total assets of $6,031.2 million. Goodwill, which relates to the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of the businesses acquired, was $1,060.6 million at December 31, 2009, representing approximately 17.6% of our total assets. The majority of our intangible assets are owned by one of our Puerto Rican subsidiaries. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition. Under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) No. 350 “Intangibles—Goodwill and other”, goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment and definite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Future impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of the acquired business or product line, adverse market conditions and changes in the competitive landscape, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of the acquired business or product line, changes in accounting rules and regulations, and a variety of other circumstances. The amount of any impairment is recorded as a charge to the statement of operations. We may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of intangible assets may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, in connection with our annual review of intangible assets during the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $163.3 million relating to our OVCON / FEMCON FE product family. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for details. 38 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program or other governmental pricing programs, we could be subject to additional reimbursements, penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We participate in the federal Medicaid rebate program established by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, as well as several state supplemental rebate programs. Under the Medicaid rebate program, we pay a rebate to each state Medicaid program for our products that are reimbursed by those programs. The minimum amount of the rebate for each unit of product is set by law as 15.1% of the average manufacturer price (“AMP”) of that product, or if it is greater, the difference between AMP and the best price available from us to any customer. The rebate amount also includes an inflation adjustment, if necessary. As a manufacturer of different types of drug products, including products that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services treats as innovators (usually branded products) and noninnovators (usually generic products), rebate calculations vary among products and programs. The calculations are complex and, in certain respects, subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. For example, the Medicaid rebate amount is computed each quarter based on our submission to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services of our current AMP and best price for each of our products. The terms of our participation in the program impose an obligation to correct the prices reported in previous quarters, if necessary. Any such corrections could result in an overage or underage in our rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the direction of the correction. In addition to retroactive rebates (and interest, if any), if we are found to have knowingly submitted false information to the government, the statute provides for civil monetary penalties in the amount of $0.1 million per item of false information. Governmental agencies may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. Federal law requires that any company that participates in the Medicaid rebate program extend comparable discounts to qualified purchasers under the Public Health Services (“PHS”) pharmaceutical pricing program. The PHS pricing program extends discounts comparable to the Medicaid rebates to a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the PHS, as well as hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of economically disadvantaged patients. Under the Veterans Health Care Act (“VHCA”), manufacturers are required to offer certain drug and biologics at a discount to a number of federal agencies including the Veterans’ Administration (“VA”), the Department of Defense, and the Public Health Service in order to participate in other federal funding programs including Medicare and Medicaid. Through contractual agreements with the VA implementing the requirements of the VHCA, we must offer certain products on the VA Federal Supply Schedule and through other contract vehicles at prices that are equal to or lower than the Federal Ceiling Price, which is a price determined through the use of a statutory formula that provides for a discount off the average price to wholesalers. In addition, recent legislative changes purport to require that similarly discounted prices be offered for certain Department of Defense purchases for its TRICARE program via a rebate system. Rebate and pricing calculations vary among products and programs. The calculations are complex and, in certain respects, subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. For example, the Medicaid rebate amount is computed each quarter based on our submission to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services of our current AMP and best price for each of our products, while the Federal Ceiling Price is calculated annually by the VA based on quarterly and annual sales submissions. The terms of our participation in the Medicaid program impose an obligation to correct the prices reported in previous quarters, as may be necessary. Any such corrections could result in an overage or underage in our rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the direction of the correction. In addition to retroactive rebates (and interest, if any), if we are found to have knowingly submitted false information to the government, the statute provides for civil monetary penalties in the amount of ten thousand dollars per item of false information. Similar risks and obligations apply to the VHCA program. Finally, governmental agencies 39 Table of Contents may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. Adverse outcomes in our outstanding litigation matters, or in new litigation matters that arise in the future, could negatively affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our financial condition could be negatively affected by unfavorable results in our outstanding litigation matters, including those described in “Note 19” to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report, or in lawsuits that may be initiated in the future. Our outstanding litigation matters include intellectual property litigation and product liability litigation, any of which, if adversely decided, could negatively affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Risks Related to the PGP Acquisition We may not realize the anticipated opportunities from the PGP Acquisition. The success of the PGP Acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities from integrating the business of PGP with our business, including utilization of its sales force to expand our reach outside the United States. Our success depends on the successful integration of our and PGP’s businesses and operations including information systems, manufacturing and R&D operations, and financial systems. We cannot assure you that we will be able to realize such opportunities or that our management will not be distracted. The PGP business faces business, regulatory and other risks, some of which may be different from the risks we currently face. We entered into the PGP Acquisition based on a number of assumptions and determinations regarding future revenues and cash flow from PGP’s products and risks relating to the PGP business that may prove to be incorrect. Although we believe the PGP business is complementary to our current business and is consistent with our strategy, operating our combined company will require managing operations and risks that are different, in some respects, from those we currently face, including the following: • PGP’s business is more geographically dispersed than our business. While prior to the PGP Acquisition we sold our products primarily in North America, 31% of PGP’s revenues for its year ended June 30, 2009, were outside North America, primarily in Western Europe. • Both ASACOL and ACTONEL, PGP’s principal products, are expected to contribute significantly more to our future revenue than any of our products prior to the PGP Acquisition, and our business could be significantly affected by any decrease in net sales from those products that is more than we have estimated or any liability relating to them. • We expect net sales of PGP’s products in the aggregate to decline over the next several years for a variety of reasons. Although we have strategies in place to mitigate this decline and in certain instances, increase revenues, those strategies may prove unsuccessful: • Net sales of ACTONEL declined 11% in PGP’s year ended June 30, 2009 compared to its prior year period, mainly due to decreased demand in the United States driven by aggressive managed care initiatives implemented to favor generic versions of once-a-week FOSAMAX and market share gains by once-a-month BONIVA. Our efforts to address market share pressures through, among other things, the marketing of our once-a-month ACTONEL 150 mg product and the development of a next generation once-a-week ACTONEL product, may not succeed in limiting the loss of market share in non-injectable osteoporosis treatment products. • ACTONEL will lose exclusivity in Canada in early 2010 and in many Western European markets beginning in late 2010. 40 Table of Contents • PGP began to experience some erosion of its market share for ASACOL in the United States in 2007 due to the introduction of competition, and the increase in net sales of ASACOL in PGP’s fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 compared to its prior year period was primarily due to higher net selling prices in the United States, which more than offset decreased demand in the United States. Our ability to increase selling prices to offset decreases in demand will be limited by the effect of higher selling prices on our market share. Our efforts to address market share pressures through, among other things, the marketing of our ASACOL 800 mg product may prove ineffective. • If Roxane’s ANDA is approved by the FDA and Roxane decided to launch its generic version of our ASACOL 400 mg product, we could lose exclusivity in the United States as early as November 2010. See “Risks Related to Our Business—If generic products that compete with any of our branded pharmaceutical products are approved and sold, sales of our products will be adversely affected” and “Note 19” to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. These and other operational factors and risks could prove more difficult to manage than we have estimated, which could cause the benefits of the PGP Acquisition to be less than we had anticipated and could materially adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness following the PGP Acquisition, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our indebtedness. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, we had total indebtedness of $3,039.5 million. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness, combined with our leases and other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have other important consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us and certain of our direct and indirect subsidiaries to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness; • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; • require us or our subsidiaries to dedicate a substantial portion of our or their cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes. Any of the above listed factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our interest expense could increase if interest rates increase because debt under our New Senior Secured Credit Facilities bear interest at our option at adjusted LIBOR (subject to a floor rate) plus an applicable margin or ABR plus an applicable margin. If we do not have sufficient earnings to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. 41 Table of Contents In addition, the agreements governing our indebtedness contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our subsidiaries’ ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests and require us to maintain specified financial ratios. A failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our debt. Risks Relating to Our Ordinary Shares Future sales of our shares could depress the market price of our ordinary shares. Sales of a substantial number of our ordinary shares, in the public market or otherwise, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. We currently have a total of approximately 252.0 million of our ordinary shares outstanding. In November 2009, certain of our shareholders sold 23.0 million ordinary shares in the Secondary Offering. The selling shareholders included the Sponsors, certain other institutional shareholders and members of the Company’s senior management. Upon completion of the Secondary Offering, approximately 40% of our outstanding ordinary shares were freely tradable, without restriction, in the public market. All of our remaining outstanding ordinary shares were issued and sold by us in private transactions and are eligible for public sale if registered under the Securities Act or sold in accordance with Rule 144 thereunder, subject to volume and manner of sale limits in certain cases and contractual restrictions in some cases. The Sponsors have the right, subject to certain conditions, to cause us to register the ordinary shares which they currently own, and substantially all of the remaining outstanding ordinary shares that are not freely tradable were issued in prior transactions and have “piggyback” registration rights in respect of any such Sponsor-requested registration. In addition, approximately 50.5 million shares in aggregate held by one of our Sponsors and certain of our institutional shareholders may be sold under Rule 144 without compliance with any volume or manner of sale limitations. In addition, our articles of association permit the issuance of up to approximately 248.0 million additional ordinary shares. Thus, we have the ability to issue substantial amounts of ordinary shares in the future, which would dilute the percentage ownership held by current shareholders. In connection with the redomestication, in August 2009 we adopted the Warner Chilcott Equity Incentive Plan (the “Plan”), assumed Warner Chilcott Limited’s existing obligations in connection with awards granted under the Plan and amended the Plan and awards as necessary to provide for the issuance of our ordinary shares, rather than the Class A common shares of Warner Chilcott Limited, upon the exercise of awards consisting of options under the Plan. We also filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register up to approximately 17.3 million shares of our ordinary shares under the Plan. As awards under the Plan are granted, vest and are exercised, subject to certain limitations under the management shareholders agreement, the shares issued on exercise generally will be available for sale in the open market by holders who are not our affiliates and, subject to the volume and other applicable limitations of Rule 144, by holders who are our affiliates. As of December 31, 2009, options to purchase approximately 6.3 million of our ordinary shares were outstanding (of which options to acquire approximately 2.6 million ordinary shares were vested). In addition, as of December 31, 2009, approximately 6.9 million restricted shares were granted under the Equity Incentive Plan (of which approximately 6.1 million restricted shares were vested). The market price of our ordinary shares may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline significantly. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations in response to general economic and market conditions and their effect on various industries. This market volatility could cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly and without regard to our operating performance. In addition, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline significantly if our future operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of public market analysts and investors. 42 Table of Contents Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on our ordinary shares’ market price include: • actual or expected fluctuations in our operating results; • actual or expected changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; • conditions in our industry generally; • conditions in the financial markets in general or changes in general economic conditions; • our inability to raise additional capital; • changes in market prices for our products; and • changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our ordinary shares, other comparable companies or our industry generally. Provisions of our articles of association could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party. Our articles of association could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares. For example, our articles of association: • permit our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred shares with rights and preferences designated by our board; • impose advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at shareholder meetings; • stagger the terms of our board of directors into three classes; and • require the approval of a supermajority of the voting power of the shares of our share capital entitled to vote generally in the election of directors for shareholders to amend or repeal our articles of association. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our ordinary shares at a premium over the market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our ordinary shares. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board. Because our Sponsors own a substantial portion of our outstanding ordinary shares, if they act collectively, the influence of our public shareholders over significant corporate actions may be limited, and conflicts of interest between our Sponsors and us or you could arise in the future. Our Sponsors collectively beneficially own approximately half of our outstanding ordinary shares. As a result, if our Sponsors act collectively, they could exercise control over the composition of our board of directors and could control the vote of our ordinary shares. If this were to occur, our Sponsors could have effective control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction and could have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of our stockholders regardless of whether or not other equity holders believe that any such transactions are in their own best interests. For example, if our Sponsors act collectively, they effectively could cause us to make acquisitions that increase our indebtedness or sell revenue-generating assets. Additionally, our Sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Our Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as our Sponsors continue to own a significant amount of our equity, if they exercise their shareholder rights collectively, they would be able to significantly influence or effectively control our decisions. 43 Table of Contents We are incorporated in Ireland, and Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to shareholders. Our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Irish Companies Acts (the “Companies Act”). The Companies Act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. We are an Irish company and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us. We are incorporated in Ireland and a substantial portion of our assets are located in jurisdictions outside the United States. It may therefore be difficult for investors to effect service of process against us or to enforce against us judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. There is no treaty between Ireland and the United States providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. The following requirements must be met before the foreign judgment will be deemed to be enforceable in Ireland: • The judgment must be for a definite sum; • The judgment must be final and conclusive; and • The judgment must be provided by a court of competent jurisdiction. An Irish court will also exercise its right to refuse judgment if the foreign judgment was obtained by fraud, if the judgment violated Irish public policy, if the judgment is in breach of natural justice or if it is irreconcilable with an earlier judgment. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 