Item 1A. Risk Factors Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements concerning the conditions in our industry, expected cost savings, our operations, our economic performance and financial condition, including, in particular, statements relating to our business and growth strategy and product development efforts. The words “may,” “might,” “will,” “should,” “estimate,” “project,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend,” “outlook,” “believe” and other similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements and information. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. These forward-looking statements are based on estimates and assumptions by our management that, although we believe to be reasonable, are inherently uncertain and subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, those identified under the captions “Business,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report before making an investment decision. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as otherwise required by law. Risks Relating to Our Business If generic products that compete with any of our branded pharmaceutical products are approved, sales of our products may be adversely affected. Our branded pharmaceutical products are or may become subject to competition from generic equivalents because there is no proprietary protection for some of the branded pharmaceutical products we sell or because our patent protection expires or is not sufficiently broad. OVCON 50, OVCON 35, ESTRACE Tablets and ESTRACE Cream are currently not protected by patents. Generic equivalents are currently available for OVCON 35 and ESTRACE Tablets. Patents covering the following products will expire within the next five years: Product Patent Expires DOVONEX Ointment December 2007 ESTROSTEP FE April 2008 SARAFEM May 2008 FEMHRT May 2010 Although part of our strategy includes the ongoing development of proprietary product improvements to our existing products and new and enhanced dosage forms, other companies may attempt to compete with our original products losing patent protection, we may not be successful in obtaining FDA approval of our new and enhanced dosage products and doctors may not prescribe these products. Generic equivalents for some of our branded pharmaceutical products are sold by other pharmaceutical companies at a lower cost. After the introduction of a generic competitor, a significant percentage of the prescriptions written for the branded product may be filled with the generic version at the pharmacy, resulting in a commensurate loss in sales of the branded product. In addition, legislation enacted in the United States allows or, in a few instances, in the absence of specific instructions from the prescribing physician, mandates the use of generic products rather than branded products where a generic equivalent is available. Competition from generic equivalents could have a material adverse impact on our revenues, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 20 Table of Contents On September 25, 2006, we terminated the exclusivity provision of our license agreement with Barr relating to OVCON 35. In October 2006, Barr launched a generic version of OVCON 35. Sales of OVCON 35 have predictably eroded as a result of the launch of the generic. Potential generic competitors may also challenge our patents. For example, Watson submitted an ANDA in April 2006 seeking approval to market a generic version of LOESTRIN 24 FE prior to the expiration of our patent. We have filed an infringement lawsuit against Watson in response to this submission. In addition, under an agreement to settle patent claims against Barr relating to our ESTROSTEP FE oral contraceptive and our FEMHRT HT product, we granted Barr a non-exclusive license to launch generic versions of ESTROSTEP FE and FEMHRT six months prior to expiration of our patents in 2008 and 2010, respectively. We cannot predict what effect, if any, such matters will have on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property are valuable assets and if we are unable to protect them from infringement or challenges, our business prospects may be harmed. Due to our focus on branded products, we consider our trademarks to be valuable assets. Therefore, we actively manage our trademark portfolio, maintain long-standing trademarks and obtain trademark registrations for new brands. We also police our trademark portfolio against infringement. Our efforts to defend our trademarks may be unsuccessful against competitors or other violating entities and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach because, for example, a violating company may be insolvent. We also rely on patents, trade secrets and proprietary knowledge to protect our products. We take steps to protect our proprietary rights by filing applications for patents on certain inventions, by entering into confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment of invention agreements with our employees, consultants, licensees and other companies and enforcing our legal rights against third parties that we believe may infringe our intellectual property rights. We do not ultimately control whether we will be successful in enforcing our legal rights against third party infringers, whether our patent applications will result in issued patents, whether our patent will be subjected to inter parte reexamination by the USPTO, whether our confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment of invention agreements will not be breached and whether we will have adequate remedies for any such breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known by competitors. There has been substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical industry with respect to the manufacture, use and sale of new products that are the subject of conflicting patent rights, and in the past, as noted above, we have been involved in this type of litigation. These lawsuits relate to the validity and infringement of patents. The expense of bringing lawsuits against infringers or defending lawsuits brought against us could cause us not to continue these suits and abandon the affected products. The ultimate outcome of this type of litigation, if brought, may not be favorable and could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Delays in production could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our principal pharmaceutical manufacturing facility located in Fajardo, Puerto Rico currently manufactures most of our women’s healthcare oral dose products, including LOESTRIN 24 FE, FEMCON FE, ESTROSTEP FE and OVCON 50 oral contraceptives, and packages delayed-release DORYX tablets, FEMHRT, OVCON 35 and DOVONEX and TACLONEX samples. Because the manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires precise and reliable controls, and due to significant compliance obligations imposed by laws and regulations, we may face delays in qualifying the Fajardo facility for the manufacture of new products or for our other products that are currently manufactured for us by third parties. In addition, certain of our pharmaceutical products are currently manufactured for us under contracts with third parties. Our contract manufacturers may not be able to manufacture our products without interruption, may not comply with their obligations under our various supply arrangements, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. From time to time our contract manufacturers have been unable to meet all of our orders, which has led to the depletion of our safety stock and temporary shortages of trade supply and promotional samples. 21 Table of Contents Failure by our own manufacturing facility or any third party manufacturer (each a “Product Supplier”) to comply with regulatory requirements could adversely affect their ability to supply products to us. All facilities and manufacturing techniques used for the manufacture of pharmaceutical products must be operated in conformity with current Good Manufacturing Practices (“cGMPs”). In complying with cGMP, Product Suppliers must continually expend time, money and effort in production, record-keeping and quality assurance and control to ensure that the product meets applicable specifications and other requirements for product safety, efficacy and quality. Manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Failure to comply with applicable legal requirements including, in the case of our manufacturing facility located in Fajardo, certain obligations that we assumed in our purchase of the facility arising out of a consent decree entered into by the previous owner subjects the Product Suppliers to possible legal or regulatory action, including shutdown, which may adversely affect their ability to supply us with product. In addition, adverse experiences with the use of products must be reported to the FDA and could result in the imposition of market restrictions through labeling changes or product removal. The FDA must approve suppliers of certain active and inactive pharmaceutical ingredients and certain packaging materials used in our products as well as suppliers of finished products. The development and regulatory approval of our products are dependent upon our ability to procure these ingredients, packaging materials and finished products from FDA-approved sources. FDA approval of a new supplier would be required if, for example, active ingredients, packaging materials or finished products were no longer available from the initially approved supplier or if that supplier had its approval from the FDA withdrawn. The qualification of a new Product Supplier could potentially delay the manufacture of the drug involved. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain active ingredients, packaging materials or finished products from a new supplier on terms that are as favorable to us as those agreed with the initially approved supplier or at reasonable prices. A delay in supplying, or failure to supply, products by any Product Supplier could result in our inability to meet the demand for our products and adversely affect our revenues, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Pricing pressures from third-party payors, including managed care organizations, government sponsored health systems and regulations relating to Medicare and Medicaid, healthcare reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement and pricing in general could decrease our revenues. Our commercial success in producing, marketing and selling products depends, in part, on the availability of adequate reimbursement from third-party healthcare payors, such as managed care organizations, and government bodies and agencies for the cost of the products and related treatment. The market for our products may be limited by actions of third-party payors. Managed care organizations and other third-party payors try to negotiate the pricing of medical services and products to control their costs, including by developing formularies to encourage plan beneficiaries to utilize preferred products for which the plans have negotiated favorable terms. Exclusion of a product from a formulary, or placement of a product on a disfavored formulary tier, can lead to sharply reduced usage in the managed care organization patient population. If our products are not included within an adequate number of formularies or if adequate reimbursement levels are not provided, or if reimbursement policies increasingly favor generic products, our market share and business could be negatively affected. Recent reforms in Medicare added an out-patient prescription drug reimbursement beginning in 2006 for all Medicare beneficiaries. The federal government and private plans contracting with the government to deliver the benefit, through their purchasing power under these programs, are demanding discounts from pharmaceutical companies that may implicitly create price controls on prescription drugs. These reforms may decrease our future revenues from products such as DOVONEX and TACLONEX that are covered by the Medicare drug benefit. 22 Table of Contents Further, a number of other legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the healthcare system have been proposed. While we cannot predict whether any such proposals will be adopted or the effect such proposals may have on our business, the existence of such proposals, as well as the adoption of any proposal, may increase industry-wide pricing pressures, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations and cash flows. Changes in laws and regulations could affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Our future operating results, financial position or cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations such as (i) changes in the FDA approval processes that may cause delays in, or prevent the approval of, new products, (ii) new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting product marketing, promotion or the healthcare field generally, (iii) new laws or judicial decisions affecting intellectual property rights and (iv) changes in the application of tax principles, including tax rates, new tax laws, or revised interpretations of existing tax laws and precedents, which result in a shift of taxable earnings between tax jurisdictions. Taxing authorities could reallocate our taxable income among our subsidiaries, which could increase our consolidated tax liability. We conduct operations world-wide through subsidiaries in various tax jurisdictions. Certain aspects of the transactions between our subsidiaries, including our transfer pricing (which is the pricing we use in the transfer of products and services among our subsidiaries) and our intercompany financing arrangements could be challenged by applicable taxing authorities. While we believe both our transfer pricing and our intercompany financing arrangements are reasonable, either or both could be challenged by the applicable taxing authorities and, following such challenge, our taxable income could be reallocated among our subsidiaries. Such reallocation could both increase our consolidated tax liability and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in market conditions, including lower than expected cash flows or revenues for our branded pharmaceutical products, may result in our inability to realize the value of these products, in which case we may have to record an impairment charge. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapid product development and technological change, and as a result, our pharmaceutical products could be rendered obsolete or their value may be significantly decreased by the development of new technology or new pharmaceutical products to treat the conditions currently addressed by our products, technological advances that reduce the cost of production or marketing or pricing actions by one or more of our competitors. Some of the companies we compete against have significantly greater resources than we do, and therefore, may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products than we can. Our inability to compete successfully with respect to these or other factors may materially and adversely affect our cash flows or revenues, may result in our inability to realize the value of our branded pharmaceutical products, including products acquired from third parties, and may require us to record an impairment charge. The loss of the services of members of our senior management team or scientific staff or the inability to attract and retain other highly qualified employees could impede our ability to meet our strategic objectives and adversely affect our business. Our success is dependent on attracting and retaining highly qualified scientific, sales and management staff, including our Chief Executive Officer, Roger Boissonneault. We face intense competition for personnel from other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. The loss of key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other highly qualified employees, may impede our ability to meet our strategic objectives. 23 Table of Contents Pursuant to our business strategy, we intend to develop proprietary product improvements as well as new products. This strategy may require us to hire additional employees with expertise in areas that relate to product development. We cannot fully anticipate or predict the time and extent to which we will need to hire this type of specialized personnel. As a result, we may not be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel necessary to pursue our business strategy fully. In addition, if competition continues to intensify, then our cost of attracting and retaining employees may escalate. Product liability claims and product recalls could harm our business. The development, manufacture, testing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products entail significant risk of product liability claims or recalls. Our products are, in the substantial majority of cases, designed to affect important bodily functions and processes. Unforeseen side-effects caused by, or manufacturing defects inherent in, the products sold by us could result in exacerbation of a patient’s condition, further deterioration of the patient’s condition or even death. The occurrence of such an event could result in product liability claims and/or recall of one or more of our products. Claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief for themselves or, in certain jurisdictions, by groups seeking to represent a class. For example, approximately 553 product liability suits have been filed against us in connection with the HT products, FEMHRT and ESTRACE. The lawsuits were likely triggered by the July 2002 and March 2004 announcements by the National Institutes of Health (“NIH”) of the early terminations of two large-scale randomized controlled clinical trials, which were part of the Women’s Health Initiative (“WHI”), examining the long-term effect of HT on the prevention of coronary heart disease and osteoporotic fractures, and any associated risk for breast cancer in postmenopausal women. In the case of the trial terminated in 2002, which examined combined estrogen and progestogen therapy (the “E&P Arm of the WHI Study”), the safety monitoring board determined that the risks exceeded the benefits, when comparing estrogen and progestogen therapy to a placebo. WHI investigators found that combined estrogen and progestogen therapy did not prevent heart disease in the study subjects and despite a decrease in the incidence of hip fracture and colorectal cancer, there was an increased risk of invasive breast cancer, coronary heart disease, stroke, blood clots and dementia. In the trial terminated in 2004, which examined estrogen therapy, the trial was ended one year early because the NIH did not believe that the results were likely to change in the time remaining in the trial and that the increased risk of stroke could not be justified for the additional data that could be collected in the remaining time. As in the E&P Arm of the WHI study, WHI investigators again found that estrogen only therapy did not prevent heart disease and although study subjects experienced fewer hip fractures and no increase in the incidence of breast cancer compared to subjects randomized to placebo, there was an increased incidence of stroke and blood clots in the legs. The estrogen used in the WHI Study was conjugated equine estrogen and the progestin was medroxyprogesterone acetate, the compounds found in Premarin® and Prempro™, products marketed by Wyeth. See “Note 19” to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2006 included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Product liability insurance coverage is expensive, can be difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. Partly as a result of product liability lawsuits related to pharmaceuticals, product liability and other types of insurance have become more difficult and costly to obtain. Our product liability insurance may not cover all the future liabilities we might incur in connection with the development, manufacture or sale of our products. In addition, we may not continue to be able to obtain insurance on satisfactory terms or in adequate amounts. A successful claim or claims brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage could subject us to significant liabilities and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Such claims could also harm our reputation and the reputation of our products, thereby adversely affecting our ability to market our products successfully. In addition, irrespective of the outcome of product liability claims, defending a lawsuit with respect to such claims could be costly and significantly divert management’s attention from operating our business. Furthermore, we could be rendered insolvent if we do not have sufficient financial resources to satisfy any liability resulting from such a claim or to fund the legal defense of such a claim. 24 Table of Contents Product recalls may be issued at our discretion or at the discretion of certain of our suppliers, the FDA, other government agencies and other entities that have regulatory authority for pharmaceutical sales. From time to time, we have recalled some of our products; however, to date none of these recalls have been significant. Any recall of a significant product could materially adversely affect our business by rendering us unable to sell that product for some time. Sales of our products may be adversely affected by the consolidation among wholesale drug distributors and the growth of large retail drug store chains. The network through which we sell our products has undergone significant consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions among wholesale distributors and the growth of large retail drugstore chains. As a result, a small number of large wholesale distributors control a significant share of the market, and the number of independent drug stores and small drugstore chains has decreased. In the year ended December 31, 2006, three of these large distributors and a large retail drug store chain accounted for an aggregate of 87% of our net revenues. In addition, excess inventory levels held by large distributors may lead to periodic and unanticipated future reductions in revenues and cash flows. Consolidation of drug wholesalers and retailers, as well as any increased pricing pressure that those entities face from their customers, including the U.S. government, may increase pricing pressure and place other competitive pressures on drug manufacturers, including us. If we fail to comply with government regulations we could be subject to fines, sanctions and penalties that could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We are subject to regulation by regional, national, state and local agencies, including the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Department of Justice, the FTC, the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and other regulatory bodies, as well as governmental authorities in those foreign countries in which we manufacture or distribute some of our products. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (“FDCA”), the Public Health Service Act and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern to varying degrees the research, development, manufacturing and commercial activities relating to prescription pharmaceutical products, including pre-clinical and clinical testing, approval, production, labeling, sale, distribution, import, export, post-market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information and promotion. Our sales, marketing, research and other scientific/educational programs must also comply with the anti-kickback and fraud and abuse provisions of the Social Security Act, the False Claims Act, the privacy provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, and similar state laws. Pricing and rebate programs must comply with the Medicaid drug rebate requirements of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 and the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992. If products are made available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule of the General Services Administration, additional laws and requirements apply. All of these activities are also potentially subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws. Non-compliance with government regulations and other legal requirements can result in civil and criminal fines, the recall of products, the total or partial suspension of manufacture and/or distribution, seizure of products, injunctions, whistleblower lawsuits, failure to obtain approval of pending product applications, withdrawal of existing product approvals, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs and other sanctions. Any threatened or actual government enforcement action can also generate adverse publicity and require that we devote substantial resources that could be used productively on other aspects of our business. Any of these enforcement actions could affect our ability to commercially distribute our products and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 25 Table of Contents New legal and regulatory requirements could make it more difficult for us to obtain new or expanded approvals for our products, and could limit or make more burdensome our ability to commercialize our approved products. Numerous proposals have been made in recent months and years to impose new requirements on drug approvals, expand post-approval requirements, and restrict sales and promotional activities. For example, federal legislation has been proposed that would require all new drug applicants to submit risk evaluation and minimization plans to monitor and address potential safety issues for products upon approval, grant FDA the authority to impose risk management measures for marketed products and to mandate labeling changes in certain circumstances, and establish new requirements for disclosing the results of clinical trials. Additional measures have also been proposed to address perceived shortcomings in FDA’s handling of drug safety issues, and to limit pharmaceutical company sales and promotional practices that some see as excessive or improper. If these or other legal or regulatory changes are enacted, it may become more difficult or burdensome for us to obtain new or expanded approvals for our products, any approvals we receive may be more restrictive or come with onerous post-approval requirements, our ability to commercialize approved products successfully may be hindered, and our business may be harmed as a result. Delays and uncertainties in clinical trials or the government approval process for new products could result in lost market opportunities and hamper our ability to recoup costs associated with product development. FDA approval is generally required before a prescription drug can be marketed. For innovative, or non-generic, new drugs, an FDA-approved NDA is required before the drugs may be marketed in the United States. The NDA must contain data to demonstrate that the drug is safe and effective for its intended uses, and that it will be manufactured to appropriate quality standards. The clinical trials required to obtain regulatory approvals can be complex and expensive, and their outcomes are uncertain. Positive results from preclinical studies and early clinical trials do not ensure positive results in later clinical trials that form the basis of an application for regulatory approval. Even where clinical trials are completed successfully, FDA may determine that a product does not present an acceptable risk benefit profile, and may not approve an NDA or may only approve an NDA with significant restrictions or conditions. The drug development and approval process can be time-consuming and expensive without assurance that the data will be adequate to justify approval of proposed new products. If we are unable to obtain governmental approval for our NDAs, we will not be able to commercialize our products and recoup our research and development costs. Furthermore, even if we obtain regulatory approvals, the terms of any product approval, including labeling, may be more restrictive than desired and could affect the marketability of our products, and the approvals may be contingent upon burdensome post-approval study commitments. If we are unable to obtain timely product approvals on commercially viable terms, our profitability and business could suffer. We may not be able to successfully identify, develop, acquire, license or market new products as part of growing our business. In order to grow and achieve success in our business, we must continually identify, develop, acquire and license new products that we can ultimately market. Any future growth through new product acquisitions will be dependent upon the continued availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. Even if such opportunities are present, we may not be able to successfully identify products as candidates for potential acquisition, licensing, development or collaborative arrangements. Moreover, other companies, many of which may have substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, are competing with us for the right to acquire such products. If an acquisition candidate is identified, the third parties with which we seek to cooperate may not select us as a potential partner or we may not be able to enter into arrangements on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Furthermore, we do not know if we will be able to finance the acquisition or integrate an acquired product into our existing operations. The negotiation and completion of potential acquisitions could cause significant diversion of management’s time and resources and potential disruption of our ongoing business. Future product 26 Table of Contents acquisitions would likely result in the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in interest expense and amortization expenses as well as significant charges relating to integration costs. At each stage between developing or sourcing new products and marketing these products, there are a number of risks and uncertainties, and failure at any stage could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve commercial success with a product or to maintain or increase revenues, profits and cash flow. In addition, if we are unable to manage the challenges surrounding product development, acquisitions or the successful integration of acquisitions, it could have materially adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Prescription drug importation from Canada and other countries could increase pricing pressure on certain of our products and could decrease our revenues and profit margins. Under current U.S. law, U.S. individuals may import prescription drugs that are unavailable in the United States from Canada and other countries for their personal use under specified circumstances. Other imports, although illegal under U.S. law, also enter the country as a result of the resource constraints and enforcement priorities of the FDA and the U.S. Customs Service. In addition, in December 2003, the United States enacted the import provisions of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act, which would permit pharmacists and wholesalers to import prescription drugs into the United States from Canada under specified circumstances. These additional import provisions will not take effect until the Secretary of Health and Human Services makes a required certification regarding the safety and cost savings of imported drugs and the FDA has promulgated regulations setting forth parameters for importation. These conditions have not been met to date, and the law has thus not taken effect. However, legislative proposals have been introduced to remove these conditions and implement the changes to the current import laws, or to create other changes that would allow foreign versions of our products priced at lower levels than in the United States to be imported or reimported to the United States from Canada, Europe and other countries. If these provisions take effect, the volume of prescription drug imports from Canada and elsewhere could increase significantly, and our products would face competition from lower priced imports. Even if these provisions do not take effect and alter current law, the volume of prescription drug imports from Canada and elsewhere could increase due to a variety of factors, including the further spread of Internet pharmacies and actions by certain state and local governments to facilitate Canadian and other imports. These imports may harm our business. We currently sell FEMHRT in Canada. In addition, ESTRACE Tablets, DOVONEX and TACLONEX (sold as “DOVOBET” in Canada) are sold in Canada by third parties. For the year ended December 31, 2006, DOVONEX, TACLONEX, FEMHRT and ESTRACE Tablets accounted for 36% of our total revenues. Due to government price regulation in Canada, these products are generally sold in Canada for lower prices than in the United States. As a result, if these drugs are imported into the United States from Canada, we may experience reduced revenue or profit margins. The perceived health effects of estrogen and combined estrogen-progestogen hormone therapy products may affect the acceptability and commercial success of our HT products. ESTRACE Tablets, ESTRACE Cream, FEMRING and FEMTRACE are estrogen therapy products, and FEMHRT is a combined estrogen-progestogen therapy product. These HT products are used by women to alleviate symptoms associated with menopause. Recent studies have analyzed the health effects of estrogen therapy and estrogen-progestogen therapy products and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists has recommended that consumers use these products in the lowest possible dose for the shortest possible duration. We believe the publicity surrounding some of these studies resulted in a significant industry-wide decrease in the number of prescriptions being written for estrogen therapy and estrogen-progestogen therapy products, including FEMHRT. The ultimate outcome of these studies and any further changes in labeling for our products may affect 27 Table of Contents the acceptability of our products by patients, the willingness of physicians to prescribe our products for their patients or the duration of their therapy. In any such event, our overall rate of growth may be lower. Our exercise of an option to acquire a five-year license to Barr’s ANDA, which references our OVCON 35 oral contraceptive, is the subject of suits by the Federal Trade Commission, 34 states, the District of Columbia and numerous private plaintiffs. In March 2004, for $1.0 million, Barr granted us an option to acquire a five-year exclusive license under Barr’s ANDA for which our OVCON 35 oral contraceptive is the reference drug. In May 2004, we exercised this option for an additional payment of $19.0 million. At the same time, we entered into a finished-product supply agreement with Barr under which Barr agreed to provide us with our requirements for finished products throughout the term of the license. In September of 2006 we introduced a chewable version of OVCON (OVCON 35 FE) and stopped shipping OVCON 35 to consumers as we began the process of transitioning from OVCON 35 to OVCON 35 FE (now FEMCON FE). As a result of the launch of OVCON 35 FE, we had expected to engage in discussions with Barr about the effect of the launch on our agreements. However, our review of our agreements with Barr and the resulting decision to terminate the exclusivity provisions in these agreements relating to OVCON 35 was accelerated when, on September 25, 2006, the FTC unexpectedly filed a motion for preliminary injunctive relief that would have required the Company to continue to market and promote Ovcon 35, which, if granted, would have had a materially adverse effect on our plans for the sale and marketing of Ovcon 35 FE. Accordingly, on September 25, 2006 we unilaterally signed a waiver which terminated the exclusivity provisions contained therein. The remaining provisions of the Barr agreements remain unchanged. On November 7, 2005, the FTC filed suit against Barr and us in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. The FTC suit alleged that our agreements with Barr relating to OVCON 35 (the “OVCON Agreements”) constituted unfair competition under Section 5 of the FTC Act and sought an injunction to remove the OVCON Agreements’ exclusivity provisions and other equitable relief. On October 23, 2006 the Court approved a settlement and entered a final order in this case. Under the terms of the settlement, we agreed to very limited injunctive relief and did not pay any monetary damages. The settlement is a final resolution of all claims filed by the FTC against us. This settlement does not affect the related pending actions. It is impossible to predict with certainty the impact that this settlement will have on the continuing actions, or the outcome of any litigation. On November 7, 2005, twenty-one states plus the District of Columbia filed suit against Barr and us in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. An additional 13 states subsequently joined the suit. The suit by the state plaintiffs alleges that the OVCON Agreements violate Section 1 of the Sherman Act and various state antitrust and consumer protection statutes. The state plaintiffs seek civil penalties, injunctive and equitable relief, and attorneys’ fees. Eight direct purchaser lawsuits were filed against the Company and Barr in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. Six of the lawsuits were class actions. The remaining two suits were brought on behalf of individual direct purchasers. On April 14, 2006 the six direct purchaser class action plaintiffs jointly filed an amended consolidated class action complaint and dismissed their complaints in the remaining five cases. The proposed class includes retail pharmacies, distributors and wholesalers. All of the direct purchaser plaintiffs allege that the OVCON Agreements violate Section 1 of the Sherman Act. All of the direct purchaser plaintiffs seek treble damages, injunctive relief, and costs including attorneys’ fees. On November 27, 2006, the Court appointed Magistrate Judge Alan Kay as a mediator for settlement of the direct purchaser cases at the parties’ request. One third-party-payor class action lawsuit was filed against the Company and Barr in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. The third-party-payor plaintiffs allege that the OVCON Agreements violate Section 1 of the Sherman Act, the antitrust laws of twenty-one states and the District of Columbia, the consumer protection acts of three states, and constitute a cause of action for unjust enrichment in unspecified jurisdictions. The third-party-payor plaintiffs seek an injunction, treble damages, the amounts by which defendants have been 28 Table of Contents unjustly enriched, restitution, disgorgement, a constructive trust, and costs including attorneys’ fees. On May 3, 2006, Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the majority of third-party-payor plaintiffs’ state law claims. The third-party-payor plaintiffs opposed the motion. On November 27, 2006, the Court appointed Magistrate Judge Alan Kay as a mediator for settlement of the third-party-payor case at the parties’ request. On March 2, 2007, the Court dismissed without prejudice our motion to dismiss the third-party-payor plaintiffs’ complaint and ordered our motion to dismiss to be automatically reinstated on April 20, 2007 if the case is not resolved by that date. On March 6, 2006, a personal use consumer plaintiff filed a class action lawsuit against the Company and Barr, in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. On April 19, 2006 the consumer plaintiff filed an amended class action complaint adding an additional named plaintiff and dropping some claims. The consumer plaintiffs allege that the OVCON Agreements violate Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act, the antitrust and/or consumer protection laws of fourteen states, and the unjust enrichment laws of fifty states. The consumer plaintiffs seek treble damages, injunctive relief, restitution, disgorgement and costs, including attorneys’ fees. On May 5, 2006 Defendants moved to partially dismiss the consumer plaintiffs’ claims. The consumer plaintiffs opposed the motion. On November 27, 2006, the Court appointed Magistrate Judge Alan Kay as a mediator for settlement of the consumer case at the parties’ request. On March 2, 2007, the Court dismissed without prejudice our motion to dismiss the Consumer Plaintiffs’ complaint and ordered our motion to dismiss to be automatically reinstated on April 20, 2007 if the case is not resolved by that date. We are contesting these lawsuits vigorously. Although it is impossible to predict with certainty the outcome of any litigation, we are confident in the merits of our defense and do not anticipate an unfavorable outcome. An estimate of the range of potential loss to us, if any, relating to these proceedings is not possible at this time. If the plaintiffs in these private lawsuits are ultimately successful, we may be required to pay damages which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have recorded a significant amount of intangible assets, which may never generate the returns we expect. The Acquisition has resulted in significant increases in identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. Identifiable intangible assets, which include trademarks and trade names, license agreements and patents acquired in acquisitions, were $1,533.8 million at December 31, 2006, representing approximately 48% of our total assets. Goodwill, which relates to the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of the businesses acquired, $1,241.5 million at December 31, 2006, representing approximately 39% of our total assets. The majority of our intangible assets are owned by our Puerto Rican subsidiary. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition. Under Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 142, goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment and definite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Future impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of the acquired business or product line, adverse market conditions and changes in the competitive landscape, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of the acquired business or product line, and a variety of other circumstances. The amount of any impairment is recorded as a charge to the statement of operations. We may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Any future determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of intangible assets would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for details. We have not completed our evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting with respect to compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are required to comply with the internal control evaluation and certification requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by no later than the end of our 2007 fiscal year. We have begun the process of determining whether our existing internal controls over financial reporting systems are compliant with Section 404. If it is determined that we are not in compliance with Section 404, we may be required to implement 29 Table of Contents new internal control procedures. We may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses as well as outside auditor fees during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. Further, we may need to hire additional qualified personnel in order for us to be compliant with Section 404. If we are unable to conclude that internal controls over financial reporting are effective and to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our independent auditors as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, there could be an adverse impact on trading prices for our securities and an adverse affect on our ability to access the capital markets. If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program or other governmental pricing programs, we could be subject to additional reimbursements, penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We participate in the federal Medicaid rebate program established by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, as well as several state supplemental rebate programs. Under the Medicaid rebate program, we pay a rebate to each state Medicaid program for our products that are reimbursed by those programs. The minimum amount of the rebate for each unit of product is set by law as 15.1% of the average manufacturer price (“AMP”) of that product, or if it is greater, the difference between AMP and the best price available from us to any customer. The rebate amount also includes an inflation adjustment, if necessary. As a manufacturer currently of single source, innovator multiple source and non-innovator multiple source products, rebate calculations vary among products and programs. The calculations are complex and, in certain respects, subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. The Medicaid rebate amount is computed each quarter based on our submission to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services of our current AMP and best price for each of our products. The terms of our participation in the program impose an obligation to correct the prices reported in previous quarters, as may be necessary. Any such corrections could result in an overage or underage in our rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the direction of the correction. In addition to retroactive rebates (and interest, if any), if we are found to have knowingly submitted false information to the government, the statute provides for civil monetary penalties in the amount of $100,000 per item of false information. Governmental agencies may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. Federal law requires that any company that participates in the Medicaid rebate program extend comparable discounts to qualified purchasers under the Public Health Services (“PHS”) pharmaceutical pricing program. The PHS pricing program extends discounts comparable to the Medicaid rebates to a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the PHS, as well as hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of economically disadvantaged patients. Risks Related to our Indebtedness We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our indebtedness, including our outstanding Notes. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness, combined with our lease and other financial obligations and contractual commitments could have other important consequences to holder, of the Notes. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, including the Notes, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including 30 Table of Contents financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the indenture governing the Notes and the agreements governing such other indebtedness; • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes. Any of the above listed factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our interest expense could increase if interest rates increase because debt under our senior secured credit facility bears interest at our option at either adjusted LIBOR plus an applicable margin or the alternate base rate plus an applicable margin. If we do not have sufficient earnings to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. In addition, the senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing the Notes contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our debt. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to pay interest on and principal of our Notes and to satisfy our other debt obligations principally will depend upon our future operating performance. As a result, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, will affect our ability to make these payments. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt service obligations, including payments on the Notes, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt instruments, including the senior secured credit facility, and the indenture governing the Notes offered hereby, may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance our obligations at all or on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy our obligations in respect of the Notes. The terms of our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing the Notes restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take certain actions. Our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing the Notes contain, and any future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on Warner Chilcott Corporation, Warner Chilcott Holdings Company III, Limited and 31 Table of Contents the other restricted subsidiaries of Warner Chilcott Holdings Company III, Limited , including restrictions on our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best long-term interests. Our senior secured credit facility includes financial covenants, including requirements that we: • maintain minimum interest coverage ratios; and • not exceed maximum total leverage ratios. Our senior secured credit facility limits the ability of Warner Chilcott Corporation, Warner Chilcott Holdings Company III, Limited and their restricted subsidiaries to make capital expenditures and requires that they use a portion of excess cash flow and proceeds of certain asset sales that are not reinvested in their business and other dispositions to repay indebtedness under the senior secured credit facility. Our senior secured credit facility also includes covenants restricting, among other things, the ability of Warner Chilcott Corporation, Warner Chilcott Holdings Company III, Limited and its restricted subsidiaries to: • incur liens; • incur or assume additional debt or guarantees or issue preferred stock; • pay dividends, or make redemptions and repurchases, with respect to capital stock; • prepay, or make redemptions and repurchases of, subordinated debt; • make loans and investments; • make capital expenditures; • engage in mergers, acquisitions, asset sales, sale/leaseback transactions and transactions with affiliates; • change the business conducted by us or our subsidiaries; and • amend the terms of subordinated debt. The indenture relating to the Notes also contains numerous covenants including, among other things, restrictions on Warner Chilcott Corporation’s, Warner Chilcott Holdings Company III, Limited’s and the restricted subsidiaries of Warner Chilcott Holdings Company III, Limited’s ability to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue disqualified or preferred stock; • create liens; • pay dividends or make other equity distributions; • repurchase or redeem capital stock; • make investments or other restricted payments; • sell assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies; • create limitations on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to make dividends or distributions to us; and • engage in transactions with affiliates. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in these debt agreements and any future financing agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. A breach of any of the restrictive covenants in the senior secured credit facility would result in a default under the senior secured credit facility. If any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, or enforce their security interest, any of which would result in an event of default under the Notes. The lenders will also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. 32 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Future sales of our shares could depress the market price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or otherwise, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2006, we had 250,557,866 shares of our common stock outstanding. On September 20, 2006, we commenced our IPO selling 70,600,000 shares of common stock that are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act. Approximately 179,233,584 of the remaining shares were granted to members of management or sold by us in private transactions to members of management, the Sponsors and certain institutional investors, and are eligible for public sale if registered under the Securities Act or sold in accordance with Rule 144 thereunder. The Sponsors have the right, subject to certain conditions, to cause us to register 152,181,648 of these shares at specified times in the future. In addition, we filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register up to 9,310,358 shares of our common stock for issuance under our 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (the “Equity Incentive Plan”). As awards under this plan are granted, vest and are exercised, subject to certain limitations under the management shareholders agreement, the shares issued on exercise generally will be available for sale in the open market by holders who are not our affiliates and, subject to the volume and other applicable limitations of Rule 144, by holders who are our affiliates. As of December 31, 2006, options to purchase 3,067,582 shares of our common stock are outstanding (of which options to acquire 479,430 shares of common stock are vested). The market price of our common stock may be volatile. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations in response to general economic and market conditions and their effect on various industries. This market volatility could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly and without regard to our operating performance. In addition, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly if our future operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of public market analysts and investors. Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on our common stock market price include: • actual or expected fluctuations in our operating results; • actual or expected changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; • conditions in our industry generally; • conditions in the financial markets in general or changes in general economic conditions; • our inability to raise additional capital; • changes in market prices for our products; and • changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or our industry generally. Provisions of our bye-laws could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party. Our bye-laws could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our stockholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock. For example, our bye-laws: • permit our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock with rights and preferences designated by our board; • impose advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at stockholder meetings; • stagger the terms of our board of directors into three classes; 33 Table of Contents • limit the ability of stockholders to remove directors; • prohibit stockholders from filling vacancies on our board of directors for so long as a quorum of directors exists; and • require the approval of at least a majority of the voting power of the shares of our capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors for stockholders to amend or repeal our bye-laws. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over the market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board. Because our Sponsors own a majority of our outstanding common stock, if they act collectively, the influence of our public shareholders over significant corporate actions may be limited, and conflicts of interest between our Sponsors and us or you could arise in the future. Our Sponsors collectively beneficially own approximately 60.7% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, if our Sponsors act collectively, they could exercise control over the composition of our board of directors and could control the vote of our common stock. If this were to occur, our Sponsors could have effective control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction and could have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of equityholders regardless of whether or not other equityholders or noteholders believe that any such transactions are in their own best interests. For example, if our Sponsors act collectively, they effectively could cause us to make acquisitions that increase our indebtedness or sell revenue-generating assets. Additionally, our Sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Our Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as our Sponsors continue to own a significant amount of our equity, even if such amount is less than 50%, and they exercise their shareholder rights collectively, they would continue to be able to significantly influence or effectively control our decisions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 