ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our concentration of commercial loans and commercial real estate loans expose us to credit risks. At December 31, 2009, our portfolio of commercial loans totaled $649.5 million, or 55.45% of total loans, and our commercial real estate loan portfolio was $443.8 million, or 37.88% of total loans. These types of loans generally expose us to a greater risk of nonpayment and loss than residential real estate loans because repayment of such loans often depends on the successful operations and income stream of the borrowers. Additionally, such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential real estate loans and many of our borrowers have more than one such loan outstanding. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a residential real estate loan. Further, we could sustain losses if we incorrectly assess the creditworthiness of such borrowers or fail to detect or respond to deterioration in asset quality in a timely manner. Problems with asset quality could cause our interest income and net interest margin to decrease and our provision for loan losses to increase, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Commercial loans are generally secured by a variety of forms of collateral related to the underlying business, such as equipment, accounts receivable and inventory. Should a commercial loan require us to foreclose on the underlying collateral, the foreclosure expense may be significant if the collateral is of a unique nature. The collateral may be difficult to liquidate, and deteriorating market conditions may depress the value of such collateral, increasing the risk to us of recovering the principal amount of the loan. Accordingly, our financial condition may be adversely affected by defaults in this portfolio. Some economists believe that deterioration in income producing commercial real estate is likely to worsen as vacancy rates continue to rise and absorption rates of existing square footage and/or units continue to decline. Because of the current, general economic slowdown, these loans represent a high risk, could result in a sharp increase in our total net charge-offs and could require us to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our current sources of funds might not be sufficient to meet our future liquidity needs. The primary sources of our funds are loan repayments and customer deposits. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, they are subject to the ability of borrowers to repay the loans. The ability of borrowers to repay loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in general economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups, reductions in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, rising fuel prices, inclement weather, natural disasters and international instability. Customer deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, returns available to customers on alternative investments and general economic conditions. Accordingly, we may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. These sources include brokered deposits, internet deposits Federal Home Loan Bank advances and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks. While our management believes that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity demands. We may be required to slow or discontinue loan growth, capital expenditures or other investments or liquidate assets should these sources not be adequate. Our reliance on internet and brokered deposits could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. Recently our loan demand has exceeded the rate at which we have been able to increase our deposits and, as a result, we have relied on internet and brokered deposits as a source of funds with which to make loans and provide liquidity. We post rates to an Internet-based program that retail and institutional investors nationwide subscribe to in order to invest funds. As of December 31, 2009, internet and brokered deposits, amounted to $526.4 million, or 42.36% of total deposits. Generally, brokered deposits may not be as stable as other types of deposits and, in the future, those depositors may not renew their time deposits when they mature, or we may have to pay a higher rate of interest to keep those deposits or to replace them with other deposits or with funds from other sources. Additionally, if we cease to be “well capitalized” for bank regulatory purposes or are placed under a formal enforcement action with corresponding restrictions, we will not be able to accept, renew or rollover brokered deposits without a waiver from the FDIC. An inability to maintain or replace these brokered deposits as they mature could adversely affect our liquidity. Further, paying higher interest rates to maintain or replace these deposits could adversely affect our net interest margin and our results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Capital constraints may affect our pace of growth and our ability to raise additional capital when needed is dependent on conditions outside our control. Our pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain specific levels of capital to support our operations, so we may at some point need to raise additional capital to support any continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to continue our growth could be materially impaired. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio, provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and takes a charge against earnings with respect to specific loans when their ultimate collectability is considered questionable. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require us to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, our earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. In the future we may become subject to informal or formal enforcement actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition, results of operations or the value of our common stock. Our bank subsidiary is not currently under, nor does management expect it to be placed under, a formal enforcement action. Nonetheless, we can provide no assurance that we will not become subject to a regulatory action, possibly including a memorandum of understanding, cease and desist order, prompt corrective action and/or other regulatory enforcement action. If our regulators take any informal or formal enforcement actions, then we could, among other things, become subject to restrictions on our ability to develop any new business, as well as restrictions on our existing business, and we could be required to raise additional capital, dispose of certain assets and liabilities within a prescribed period of time, or both. The terms of any such enforcement action could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition, results of operations and the value of our common stock. We rely heavily on the services of key personnel. We depend substantially on the strategies and management services of our executive officers — Michael R. Sapp, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Frank Perez, Chief Financial Officer and H. Lamar Cox, Chief Operating Officer. The loss of the services of any of these executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are also dependent on certain other key officers who have important customer relationships or are instrumental to our operations. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management, as well as sales and marketing personnel. We compete with a large number other financial institutions in the Nashville MSA for such personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Prepayment of FDIC insurance premiums and higher FDIC assessment rates could adversely affect our results of operations. As a result of the large number of recent bank failures that have depleted the DIF, the FDIC required financial institutions, such as our bank subsidiary, to prepay on December 30, 2009 their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010 through and including 2012 in order to re-capitalize the DIF. The amount of our prepayment was $8.05 million. The FDIC also increased the assessment rates by three basis points effective January 1, 2011. We cannot predict if the aggregate amount of all FDIC premium prepayments will be sufficient to cover expected bank failures. Therefore, we can give no assurance that the FDIC will not impose additional special assessments in the future to cover the costs associated with such failures. 11 Table of Contents Our business is subject to the success of certain local economies. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and new businesses in the Nashville metropolitan statistical area, or Nashville MSA, and the other markets in which we have significant loan production efforts. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. Adverse economic conditions in our specific market areas could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. National market funding outside of the Nashville MSA has risks related to the potential disposition of collateral upon foreclosure. At December 31, 2009, 25.71% of our loan portfolio was composed of national market funding loans to non-Middle Tennessee businesses referred to us by a small network of equipment vendors and financial service companies. This lending causes us to have somewhat different risks than those typical for community banks generally. Our loan portfolio is somewhat geographically diverse, and as a result the loan collateral is also dispersed geographically. This may result in longer time periods to locate collateral and higher costs to dispose of collateral in the event that the collateral is used to satisfy the loan obligation. Our business strategy includes the continuation of growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if our business strategies are not effectively executed. We intend to continue pursuing a growth strategy for our business through organic growth of the loan portfolio. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties that can be encountered by financial service companies in rapid growth stages, which include the risks associated with the following: · maintaining loan quality; · maintaining adequate management personnel and information systems to oversee such growth; · maintaining adequate control and compliance functions; and · securing capital and liquidity needed to support our anticipated growth. There can be no assurance that we will maintain or achieve deposit levels, loan balances or other operating results necessary to avoid losses or produce profits. Our growth will cause growth in overhead expenses as we add staff. As a result, historical results may not be indicative of future results. Failure to successfully address these issues identified above could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations. Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition in our markets from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other community banks and super-regional and national financial institutions that operate in the Nashville MSA and elsewhere. We not only compete with these companies in the Nashville MSA, but also in the regional and national markets in which we engage in our indirect funding programs. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete with an array of financial institutions in the Nashville MSA, and regionally and nationally with respect to our indirect funding programs. Material fluctuations in non-interest income may occur. Historically, a substantial portion of our non-interest income is derived from the sale of loans. We sell loans, particularly loans generated for our national market funding portfolio. The timing and extent of these loan sales may not be predictable, and could cause material variation in our non-interest income on a quarter-to-quarter basis. 12 Table of Contents Negative developments in the financial services industry and U.S. and global credit markets may adversely impact our operations and results. Negative developments in the latter half of 2007 and throughout 2008 and 2009 in the capital markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing through 2009 and into 2010. The performance of loan portfolios has deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, among other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting the loans. The competition for our deposits has increased significantly as a result of liquidity concerns at other institutions. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and capital and liquidity standards, and financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement actions. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 followed, and have been followed by, numerous actions by the Federal Reserve Board, Congress, Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the U.S. banking system. These initiatives may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve significantly or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in interest rates may affect our level of interest income, the primary component of our gross revenue, as well as the level of our interest expense. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Accordingly, changes in interest rates could decrease our net interest income. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies including the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC and the TDFI. Our regulatory compliance is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, and interest rates paid on deposits. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Further, the impact of new legislation in response to negative developments in the financial industry could adversely affect our operations by restricting our business operations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market that are applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. As a result, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant compliance costs. 13 Table of Contents Even though our common stock is currently listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, the trading volume of our common stock has been low and the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could depress the price of our common stock. While our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, the trading volume of our common stock is relatively low and we cannot be certain when a more active and liquid trading market for our common stock will develop or whether such a market could be sustained. Because of this, our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices or times that they desire. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock, or availability of shares of our common stock for sale, will have on the market price of our common stock. We, therefore, can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the potential for large amounts of sales, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. Our issuance of securities to Treasury may limit our ability to return capital to our shareholders, may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock and may result in other restrictions to our operations. In connection with our sale of $30 million of our Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, or Series A Preferred Stock, to Treasury on December 19, 2008, we also issued to Treasury a warrant to purchase 461,538 shares of our common stock. The terms of the transaction with Treasury will result in limitations on our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our shares. Until December 19, 2011 or until Treasury no longer holds any shares of the Series A Preferred Stock, we will not be able to pay dividends or repurchase any of our shares without the approval of Treasury, with limited exceptions. In addition, we will not be able to pay any dividends at all on our common stock unless we are current on our dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. These restrictions, as well as the dilutive impact of the warrant, may have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock and may be dilutive of our earnings per share. In addition, we are required to pay cumulative dividends at a rate of 5% per annum for the first five years, and thereafter at a rate of 9% per annum. Depending on our financial condition at the time, these dividends could have a negative effect on our liquidity. The shares of Series A Preferred Stock will receive preferential treatment in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock may, under certain circumstances, have the right to elect two directors to our board of directors. In the event that we fail to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock for an aggregate of six quarterly dividend periods or more (whether or not consecutive), the authorized number of directors then constituting our board of directors will be increased by two. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, together with the holders of any outstanding parity stock with like voting rights voting as a single class, will then be entitled to elect the two additional members of our board of directors at the next annual meeting (or at a special meeting called for the purpose of electing such directors prior to the next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods have been paid in full. Holders of our subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders. In 2005 and 2008, we supported our continued growth through the issuance of trust preferred securities from two affiliated special purpose trusts and accompanying subordinated debentures. At September 30, 2009, we had outstanding trust preferred securities and accompanying subordinated debentures totaling $23 million. Our board of directors may decide to issue additional tranches of trust preferred securities in the future if markets for these securities improve. We conditionally guarantee payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities. Further, the accompanying subordinated debentures we issued to the trust are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on our subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years (from the date of issuance) during which time we may not pay dividends on our common stock. We may issue additional common stock or other equity securities in the future which could dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. In order to maintain our capital at desired levels or required regulatory levels, or to fund future growth, our board of directors may decide from time to time to issue additional shares of common stock, or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or representing rights to acquire shares of our common stock. The sale of these securities may significantly dilute our shareholders’ ownership interest as a shareholder and the market price of our common stock. New investors in other equity securities issued by us in the future may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current shareholders which may adversely impact our current shareholders. 14 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 