ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related To Our Business and Our Industry Our growth cannot be assured. Even if we do experience growth, we cannot assure you that we will grow profitably. Although we have experienced significant growth in our net sales since 2002, historical growth rates may not be sustainable and are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. Our efforts to generate future growth in net sales might not result in increased net sales, higher margins or continued profitability. To the extent that net sales do not grow at anticipated rates, that increases in operating expenses precede or are not subsequently followed by commensurate increases in net sales, or that we are unable to adjust operating expense levels accordingly, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We have experienced losses in the past and may incur losses in the future. We experienced net losses for our 2004 year and for each of the years from 1995 to 2001. Furthermore, our predecessor company declared bankruptcy in July 1997 and emerged from bankruptcy in July 1999. We expect that our expenses will increase in the near term in order to continue expanding our business. We may incur losses in future periods. If we are not able to maintain profitability, our stock price is likely to decline. If we experience fluctuations in our results of operations or rate of growth and fail to meet net sales and earnings expectations, our stock price may fall rapidly and without advance notice. We base our current and future expense levels and our investment plans on estimates of our future net sales, our future estimated gross margin and our future rate of growth. Our actual results may vary significantly from these estimates. We expect that our expenses will generally increase in the future, but may fluctuate from period to period. We may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough if our net sales fall short of our expectations or our gross margins erode. Our results of operations depend on both the continued growth of demand for the products we offer and, to a lesser extent, general economic and business conditions. Any softening of demand for the products we offer will harm our operating results. A new product introduction by us may result in higher growth in our net sales in the quarter in which the product is introduced as compared to subsequent quarters when the customer is re-stocking the item rather than stocking it for the first time. Our results of operations may fluctuate on a quarterly basis, which could result in decreases in our stock price. Growth in net sales may not be sustainable and may decrease in the future. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. We depend on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, and our financial success is linked to the success of our customers, our customers' commitment to our products and our ability to satisfy and retain our customers. Some of our customers have experienced financial difficulties during the past several years. We depend on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our sales. Net sales from our ten largest customers totaled 68.9%, 64.5% and 63.3% of our total net sales during 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We expect that these customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales in the future. Two customers each accounted for more than 10% of our net sales in 2006 and 2005, one customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales for the period May 11, 2004 through January 1, 2005 and two customers each accounted for more than 10% of our net sales for the period December 28, 2003 through May 10, 2004. 13 We sell the majority of our products to department stores and national chain stores, and mass merchants which in turn sell our products to consumers. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our customers, as sales to retailers are generally made on an order-by-order basis. If we cannot fill customers' orders on time, orders may be cancelled and relationships with customers may suffer, which could have an adverse effect on us. Furthermore, if any of our customers experiences a significant downturn in its business, or fails to remain committed to our products or brands, the customer may reduce or discontinue purchases from us. The loss of a customer or a reduction in the amount of our products purchased by one or more of our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. During the past several years, various retailers, including some of our customers, have experienced significant changes and difficulties, including restructurings, bankruptcies and liquidations. These and other financial problems experienced by some of our customers, as well as general weakness in the retail environment, increase the risk of extending credit to these customers. A significant adverse change in a customer relationship or in a customer's financial position could cause us to limit or discontinue business with that customer, require us to assume more credit risk relating to that customer's receivables or limit our ability to collect amounts related to previous purchases by that customer, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive market, and the size and resources of some of our competitors may allow them to compete more effectively than we can, resulting in a loss of market share and, as a result, a decrease in net sales and profitability. The intimate apparel industry is highly competitive. Competition is generally based upon product quality, brand name recognition, price, selection, service and purchasing convenience. Both branded and private brand manufacturers compete in the intimate apparel industry. Our primary competitors include Aerie by American Eagle, Cupid Foundations Inc., Gap Inc., Hanesbrands, Inc., Jockey International, Inc., the Lane Bryant division of Charming Shoppes, Inc., the Soma division of Chico's, Inc., Triumph International, VF Corporation, the Victoria's Secret division of Limited Brands, Inc., Wacoal Corp., and The Warnaco Group, Inc. Because of the highly fragmented nature of the balance of the industry, both domestically and internationally, we also compete with many small manufacturers and retailers. Additionally, department stores, specialty retailers and other retailers, including our customers, have significant private brand product offerings that compete with us, and these retailers may choose to source these private brand product offerings directly from third-party manufacturers. Specialty retailers, such as Victoria's Secret, have grown at a faster rate in recent years than the industry in general and more than department stores and national chain stores, to which we sell the majority of our products, in particular. Furthermore, many specialty retailers primarily sell private brand products, and we cannot predict the future growth, if any, for our products with specialty retailers. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources, broader product lines outside of intimate apparel and a larger customer base than we have and may be less financially leveraged than we are. As a result, these competitors may be able to: •adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly; •introduce new and more innovative products more quickly; •better adapt to downturns in the economy or other decreases in sales; •better withstand pressure to accept customer returns of their products or reductions in inventory levels carried by our customers; •take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities more readily; •devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products; 14 •adopt more aggressive pricing policies and provide greater contributions to retailer price markdowns and cooperative advertising arrangements than we can; and •control sourcing production, thereby creating delays for our products. The elimination of quotas and other trade barriers could increase competition further, as barriers to entry into the industry are reduced. We might not be able to compete successfully with these competitors in the future. If we fail to compete successfully, our market share and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Retail trends could result in increased downward pressure on our prices, reduced floor space for our products and other changes that could be harmful to our business. There has been a growing trend toward retailer consolidation and, as a result, we increasingly sell our products to a reduced number of customers. As a result of this consolidation, we have observed an increased centralization of buying decisions and greater negotiating power by such retailers. Policy changes by our customers, such as reductions in inventory levels, limitations on access to display space, development of private brands and other changes by customers, could result in lower net sales and lower gross margins for us. These consolidations in the retail industry, as well as further consolidations that may occur in the future, could result in price and other competition that could damage our business. Additionally, as our customers grow larger, they may increasingly require us to provide them with our products on an exclusive basis, which would cause an increase in the number of SKUs we must carry and, consequently, our inventory levels and working capital requirements could increase. The potential impact of these types of policy changes by our customers has been amplified by the recent consolidation of retailers, as each retailer now represents a greater portion of our net sales. The intimate apparel industry is subject to pricing pressures that may cause us to lower the prices we charge for our products. Average prices in the intimate apparel industry have generally declined in the past several years, primarily as a result of the growth of the mass merchant channel of distribution, increased competition, consolidation in the retail industry and a promotional retail environment. To remain competitive, we must adjust our prices from time to time in response to these industry-wide pricing pressures. Many of our competitors source their product requirements, as we do, from lesser-developed countries to achieve lower operating costs. Our competitors may possibly source from regions with lower costs than those of our sourcing partners and those competitors may apply such additional cost savings to further reduce prices. Moreover, increased customer demands for markdown allowances, incentives and other forms of economic support reduce our gross margins and affect our profitability. Our financial performance may be negatively affected by these pricing pressures if we are forced to reduce our prices without being able to correspondingly reduce our costs for finished goods or if our costs for finished goods increase and we cannot increase our prices. We may not be able to keep pace with constantly changing fashion trends, and if we misjudge consumer preferences, the image of one or more of our brands may suffer and the demand for our products may decrease. Our success depends, in part, on management's ability to anticipate and respond effectively to rapidly changing fashion trends and consumer tastes and to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings. If we are unable to anticipate, identify or react to changing styles or trends and misjudge the market for our products or any new product lines, our sales may be lower and we may be faced with a significant amount of unsold finished goods inventory. In response, we may be forced to increase our marketing promotions, to provide markdown allowances to our customers, or to liquidate excess merchandise, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and profitability. Our brand image may also suffer if 15 customers believe that we are no longer able to offer innovative products, respond to the latest fashion trends or maintain the quality of our products. Even if we are able to anticipate and respond effectively to changing fashion trends and consumer preferences, our competitors may quickly duplicate or imitate one or more aspects of our products, promotions, advertising, brand image and business processes, whether or not they are protected under applicable intellectual property law, which may materially reduce our sales and profitability. Our customers may decide to discontinue carrying one or more of our brands or product lines in their stores if the brand or product line does not generate sufficient retail sales. Retailers have in the past sought, and may in the future seek, to consolidate their product offerings and reduce the number of overlapping products they carry in an effort to reduce their inventory and other costs. In doing so, retailers may decide not to purchase one or more of our brands or product lines if that brand or product line does not generate sufficient retail sales and profits for the retailer. The decision by any one of our major customers to stop selling one or more of our brands or product lines may result in other retailers following suit. Even if other retailers do not stop selling the brand or product line, the loss of economies of scale may make it less profitable for us to continue selling the brand or product line. We may ultimately be required to discontinue selling that brand or product line, which may have a material adverse effect on our net sales and profitability. They may also decide that private brands should be a larger percentage of their total business and that could also impact our profitability. Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our financial condition. Our substantial indebtedness could have significant negative consequences. For example, it could: •increase our sensitivity to interest rate fluctuations; •limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate requirements, or to carry out other aspects of our business plan; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to pay principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of that cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes, or to carry out other aspects of our business plan; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; •cause our suppliers to institute more onerous payment terms generally or require us to purchase letters of credit for this purpose; •limit our ability to enter into new store leases or renew existing store leases; •make us more sensitive to any future reduction in our long-term credit rating, which could result in reduced access to the capital markets and higher interest costs on future financings; •lead us to have less favorable credit terms which would increase the amount of working capital necessary to conduct our business; and •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. In addition, our credit facility contains financial and other restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests such as selling assets, strategic acquisitions, paying dividends, stock repurchases and borrowing additional funds. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt which could leave us unable to meet some or all of our obligations. See notes to the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 16 External events may cause disruptions to our supply chain, result in increased cost of sales or lead to an inability to deliver our products to our customers. Currently, we source all of our production through a network of various offshore vendors predominately in the Asia-Pacific region, including China. There are myriad potential events that could disrupt our foreign supply chain, including the following: •political instability, acts of war or terrorism, or other international events resulting in the disruption of trade with countries where our sourcing partners' manufacturing facilities are located; •disruptions in shipping and freight forwarding services, including the result of dockworker or port strikes; •increases in oil prices, which would increase the cost of shipping; •interruptions in the availability of basic services and infrastructure, including power shortages; •extraordinary weather conditions (such as hurricanes) or natural disasters (such as earthquakes or tsunamis); •the occurrence of an epidemic, the spread of which may impede our ability to obtain products on a timely basis; •in the event of safeguard embargoes, many of the Chinese factories may lose workers which would likely affect their ability to service the business when the embargoes are lifted; or •as our suppliers open new plants in new countries, costs of labor may be higher and worker productivity may be lower than at existing plants. These and other events could interrupt production in offshore facilities, increase our cost of sales, disrupt merchandise deliveries, delay receipt of the products into the United States or prevent us from sourcing our products at all. Depending on timing, these events could also result in lost sales, cancellation charges, excessive markdowns or increased air freight charges to compensate for late deliveries. Our future performance may be subject to the occurrence of such events, which are beyond our control, and which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The loss of one or more of our suppliers of finished goods or raw materials may interrupt our supplies. We purchase intimate apparel designed by us from a limited number of third-party manufacturers. In addition, approximately 70% of our total sourcing is concentrated in two foreign countries, China and Indonesia. We do not have any material or long-term contracts with any of our suppliers. Furthermore, our finished goods suppliers also purchase the fabrics and accessories used in our products from a limited number of suppliers. The loss of one or more of these vendors could interrupt our supply chain and impact our ability to deliver products to our customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our net sales and profitability. Increases in the price of raw materials used to manufacture our products could materially increase our costs and decrease our profitability. The principal fabrics used in our business are made from cotton, synthetic fabrics and cotton-synthetic blends. The prices for these fabrics are dependent on the market price for the raw materials used to produce them, primarily cotton and chemical components of synthetic fabrics, and there can be no assurance that prices for these and other raw materials will not increase in the near future. These raw materials are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, power outages, government regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. Fluctuations in crude oil or petroleum prices may also influence the prices of related items such as chemicals, dyestuffs, man-made fiber and foam. Any raw material price increase would increase our cost of sales and decrease our profitability unless we are able to pass higher prices on 17 to our customers. In addition, if one or more of our competitors is able to reduce its production costs by taking advantage of any reductions in raw material prices or favorable sourcing agreements, we may face pricing pressures from those competitors and may be forced to reduce our prices or face a decline in net sales, either of which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changing international trade regulation and future quantitative limits, duties or tariffs may increase our costs or limit the amount of products that we can import from suppliers in a particular country. Our operations are, or may become, subject to various existing and proposed international trade agreements and regulations such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, the Central American Free Trade Agreement and the Caribbean Basin Initiative, and the activities and regulations of the World Trade Organization, or WTO. These trade agreements can impose requirements that negatively affect our business, such as limiting the countries from which we can source our products, restricting availability of raw material sourcing by requiring fabric from a particular country and setting quantitative limits on products that may be imported from a particular country. We are exposed to these risks as we import goods from third-party suppliers in Asia and Central America. Our suppliers may have to pay additional charges for allocation of quota for goods produced in China which could impact the supply of product and cost of product. The countries in which our products are manufactured, or into which they are imported, may from time to time impose additional new regulations, or modify existing regulations, including: •additional quantitative limits, duties, taxes, tariffs and other charges on imports, including retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions, which may or may not be based on WTO rules, and which would increase the cost of products purchased from suppliers in such countries; •quantitative limits that may limit the quantity of goods which may be imported into the United States or other jurisdictions from a particular country, including the imposition of "safeguard" limitations by the U.S. government or governments in other jurisdictions, such as the European Union and its member countries, limiting our ability to import goods from China; •changes in classification of products that could result in higher duty rates than we have historically paid; •modification of the trading status of certain countries; •requirements as to where raw materials must be purchased; •creation of export licensing requirements, imposition of restriction on export quantities or specification of minimum export pricing; or •creation of other restrictions on imports. Adverse changes in these costs and restrictions could interrupt production in offshore facilities or delay receipt of our products in the United States and international markets, which would harm our business. Safeguard actions have been initiated in the past with respect to panties and bras by the United States. The United States entered into a three-year bilateral agreement with China setting quantitative limits on imports on panties, bras and certain shapewear products that could result in embargoes in 2007 and 2008. Similarly, the European Union (EU) has entered into a trade agreement with China that has resulted in annual quantitative limitations on bras and other categories that did result in an embargo on bras in 2005 and could result in an embargo on bras and other categories imported from China in 2007 and 2008. Furthermore, future trade agreements could provide our competitors with an advantage over us, or increase our costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 18 Decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar could materially increase our cost of sales. We have shifted all of our production to third-party suppliers, primarily in countries in the Asia-Pacific region. While we pay these third-party suppliers in U.S. dollars, their costs are typically based upon the local currency of the country in which they operate. Any decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies could result in a corresponding increase in our future cost of sales and decrease in our profitability, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We expect to continue to expand our sales operations outside of the United States and we may be unsuccessful in these efforts. We expect to continue to expand our operations outside of the United States. There are certain risks inherent in doing business in international markets, which include: •difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; •understanding consumer tastes and fashion trends in foreign jurisdictions; •the inability to manage and coordinate the various regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions that are constantly evolving and subject to unexpected change; •reduced or no protection for intellectual property rights; •fluctuations in exchange rates; •less developed technological infrastructures; •inability to change management in these other countries due to applicable local law, severance obligations and social norms; •difficulty in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals for planned expansion, if any, and the possibility that any approvals that are obtained may impose restrictions on the operation of our business; •reductions in business activity in those markets due to holidays and other seasonal slowdowns in the localized retail industry; •potentially adverse tax consequences; and •difficulty in servicing our customers from our Ireland distribution center. Our inability to manage these risks effectively could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to expand our international operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any problems at our distribution centers could materially affect our ability to distribute our products. Our distribution centers in Fayetteville, North Carolina and Shannon, Ireland serve our domestic and foreign customers. We do not have a backup facility or any alternate distribution arrangements in place. In the event that we experience problems at our distribution centers that impede the timeliness or fulfillment quality of the products being distributed, or that either of our distribution centers is partially or completely destroyed, becomes inaccessible, or is otherwise not fully usable, it would have a material adverse effect on our ability to distribute our products, which in turn would have a material adverse effect on our net sales, profitability, financial condition and operating performance. We may suffer negative publicity or be sued if the manufacturers of our merchandise violate labor laws or engage in practices that are viewed as unethical. We rely on our sourcing personnel, utilizing established procedures, to select manufacturers with legal and ethical labor practices, but we cannot control the business and labor practices of our manufacturers. If one of these manufacturers violates, or is accused of violating, labor laws or other 19 applicable regulations, or if such a manufacturer engages in labor or other practices that would be viewed as unethical if such practices occurred in the United States, we could in turn suffer negative publicity or be sued. In addition, if such negative publicity affected one of our customers, it could result in a loss of business for us. If we are unable to renew or replace our store leases or enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms, or if we violate any of the terms of our current leases, our growth and profitability could be harmed. We lease all of our outlet store locations. The majority of our store leases contain provisions for base rent plus an additional amount based on a percentage of sales in excess of an agreed upon minimum annual sales level. A number of our leases include a termination provision which applies if we do not meet certain sales levels during a specified period, typically in the third to fourth year of the lease. In addition, our leases all expire within the next ten years with a shorter average remaining life and generally do not contain options to renew. Furthermore, some of these leases contain various restrictions relating to the change of control of our company. Our leases also subject us to risks relating to compliance with changing outlet center rules and the exercise of discretion by our landlords on various matters within the outlet centers. If we are unable to renew or replace our store leases or enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms, or if we violate any of the terms of our current leases, our growth and profitability could be harmed. Our company-operated outlet stores are heavily dependent on the ability and desire of consumers to travel and shop. Our company-operated outlet stores are located principally in outlet centers, which are typically located at or near vacation destinations or away from large population centers where department stores and other traditional retailers are concentrated. As a result, developments that would lead to decreased travel, such as fuel shortages, increased fuel prices, travel restrictions, travel concerns, bad weather and other circumstances, including as a result of war, terrorist attacks or the perceived threat of war or terrorist attacks, could have a material adverse effect on us, as was the case after the September 11th terrorist attacks. Other factors which could affect the success of our stores include: •the location of the outlet center or the location of a particular store within an outlet center; •the other tenants occupying space at the outlet center; •increased competition in areas where outlet centers are located; •the opening of outlet centers closer to population centers, which could materially decrease the traffic to existing outlet centers that are located further away from established population centers; •a downturn in the economy generally or in a particular area where an outlet center is located; and •the amount of advertising and promotional dollars spent by the landlord of the outlet center to attract consumers to the outlet center. We experience fluctuations in our comparable outlet store sales and margins. Our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to continue to further improve sales, as well as both gross margins and operating margins, at our company-operated outlet stores. A variety of factors affect comparable store sales, including competition, current economic conditions, the timing of release of new merchandise and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs and weather conditions. These factors may cause our comparable store sales results to differ materially from prior periods and from expectations. 20 Our ability to further improve our comparable store sales results and margins depends in large part on improving our forecasting of demand and fashion trends, selecting effective marketing techniques, providing an appropriate mix of merchandise for our broad and diverse consumer base, managing inventory effectively, using effective pricing strategies, and optimizing store performance by controlling operating costs and closing underperforming stores. Our inability to execute these strategies may cause our comparable store sales results and operating results to differ materially from prior periods and from expectations. We are implementing changes to our Information Technology systems that may disrupt operations. We continue to evaluate and are currently implementing, in a phased approach, modifications and upgrades to our information technology systems for sourcing and distribution operations, financial reporting, planning and forecasting. Modifications involve replacing legacy systems with successor systems, making changes to legacy systems or acquiring new systems with new functionality. We might not successfully launch these new systems as planned or without disruptions to our operations. Information technology system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We could have cost overruns on the technology that would impact our results of operations. We are subject to potential challenges relating to overtime pay and other regulations, and union contracts that affect our relationship with our employees, which could adversely affect our business. Federal and state laws governing our relationships with our employees affect our operating costs. These laws include wage and hour laws and regulations, fair labor standards, minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, citizenship requirements and payroll taxes. A determination that we do not comply with these laws could harm our profitability or business reputation. Additional government-imposed increases in minimum wages, overtime pay, paid leaves of absence or mandated health benefits could also materially adversely affect us. We are a party to contracts with two separate unions. Our contracts with Local 153 of OPEIU and UNITE-HERE both expire on September 30, 2009. Our failure or inability to renew either of these contracts could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business and on our results of operations. We are subject to various laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our business, including those promulgated under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Consumer Product Safety Act, the Flammable Fabrics Act, the Textile Fiber Product Identification Act, the rules and regulations of the Consumer Products Safety Commission and various labor, workplace and related laws, as well as environmental laws and regulations. Our international business is subject to similar regulations in the foreign countries in which we operate. We may be required to make significant expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations, including labeling laws and privacy laws, compliance with which may require significant additional expense. Complying with existing or future laws or regulations may materially limit our business and increase our costs. Failure to comply with such laws may expose us to potential liability and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We cannot predict our future capital needs or our ability to obtain additional financing if we need it. Our business is dependent upon the availability of adequate funding. Historically, we have satisfied these needs primarily through debt financing and, more recently, internally-generated funds and our initial public offering. We believe there are a significant number of capital intensive opportunities for us to maximize our growth and strategic position, including, among others, 21 acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances or other investments. As a result, we may need to raise additional funds to: •support more rapid growth in our business; •develop new or enhanced products; •respond to competitive pressures; •acquire complementary companies or technologies; •expand our distribution centers to support the growth of our business or to lease or build additional space; •fund the working capital requirements of carrying additional inventory; •enter into strategic alliances or make acquisitions; •complete our $20.0 million stock repurchase program; •respond to unanticipated capital needs; and •develop new internal brands. We might not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If sufficient funds are not available or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance our products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. These limitations could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We might not successfully integrate future acquisitions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Although members of our current management team have previous experience in integrating acquisitions, they have not completed any acquisitions as a team. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire or invest in businesses, products or technologies that we believe are strategic. We might not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. Even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, product or technology, such acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including: •we may find that the acquired company or assets do not further our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the company or assets, or that the economic conditions underlying our acquisition decision change; •we may have difficulty integrating the products with our existing product lines; •we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, or retaining the key personnel of the acquired business; •our ongoing business and management's attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of expanding into new markets; and •we may acquire a company with a different customer base than ours, and those customers may elect to shift their business to other companies following the acquisition. Future acquisitions could have an adverse effect on our operating results, particularly in the quarters immediately following their completion while we integrate the operations of the acquired business. Once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of revenues, profitability or productivity comparable with those achieved by our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. Furthermore, the consideration paid in connection with an investment or acquisition will affect our financial results. If we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the 22 consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash and our available borrowing capacity to consummate any acquisition. To the extent we issue shares of capital stock or other rights to purchase capital stock, including options or other rights, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs (such as those relating to acquired in-process research and development costs) or restructuring charges. They may also result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our failure to register, renew or otherwise protect our trademarks and other intellectual property could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and our ability to use those names in certain geographical areas. We use trademarks on nearly all of our products, which is an important factor in creating a market for our products, in identifying us, and in distinguishing our products from those of others. We believe our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, trade secrets, patent applications and similar intellectual property are critical to our success. We rely on trademark, copyright and other intellectual property laws to protect our proprietary rights. We also depend on trade secret protection through confidentiality agreements with our employees, licensees, suppliers and others, and through license agreements with our licensees with whom we develop the fabrics, other components and machinery used to make our products. We may not have agreements containing adequate protective provisions in every case and the contractual provisions that are in place may not provide us with adequate protection in all circumstances. The unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our intellectual property could diminish the value of our brand, competitive advantages or goodwill and result in decreased net sales. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, intellectual property laws afford us only limited protection. A third party could copy our products, designs and/or brands, or otherwise obtain information from us without authorization. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property or to deter others from developing similar products. Further, monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property, including our trademarks and service marks, is difficult. Litigation has been and may continue to be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation of this type has resulted in and could in the future result in further substantial costs and diversion of resources, may result in counterclaims or other claims against us and could significantly harm our results of operations. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition, we have not obtained trademark protection for all of our brands in all of the countries where we sell our products. This could leave us helpless to stop potential infringers or possibly even unable to sell our products in certain territories. We may have disputes with, or be sued by, third parties for infringement or misappropriation of their proprietary rights, which could have a negative impact on our business. Other parties have asserted in the past, and may assert in the future, claims with respect to trademark, patent, copyright or other intellectual property rights that are important to our business. Other parties might seek to block the use of, or seek monetary damages or other remedies for the prior use of, our trademarks or other intellectual property or the sale of our products as a violation of their trademark, patent or other proprietary rights. Defending any claims, even claims without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly settlements, litigation or restrictions on our business and could damage our reputation. In addition, there may be prior registrations or use of intellectual property in the United States or foreign countries (including, but not limited to, similar or competing marks or other proprietary rights) of which we are not aware. In all such countries, it may be possible for any third-party owner of a 23 trademark registration in that country or other proprietary right to enjoin or limit our expansion into those countries or to seek damages for our use of such intellectual property in such countries. In the event a claim against us were successful and we could not obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property or redesign or rename our products or operations to avoid infringement, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. In addition, securing registrations does not fully insulate us against intellectual property claims, as another party may have rights superior to our registration or our registration may be vulnerable to attack on various other grounds. Any such claims of infringement or misappropriation, whether meritorious or not, could •be expensive and time consuming to defend; •prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our business; •cause us to cease producing and marketing certain of our products; •result in the loss of one or more key customers; •require us to re-label or re-design our products, if feasible; •result in significant monetary liability; •divert management's attention and resources; and •potentially require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary intellectual property. Third parties might assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to any of our products. Any such assertion might require us to enter into royalty arrangements or litigation that could be costly to us. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Sales of shares of common stock by us or our stockholders could limit our ability to utilize certain income tax benefits. At December 30, 2006, we had approximately $62.8 million of federal and state net operating loss carryforwards available for future utilization during the years 2007 through 2023. To the extent any sales of common stock by us or certain of our stockholders results in an "ownership change" within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code ("Section 382"), we may not be able to realize certain of these net operating loss carryforwards existing at the date of such ownership change or the timing of when we can use these net operating loss carryforwards may be modified. For more information regarding these potential income tax benefits and our net operating loss carryforwards, see notes to the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member of this team may prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel, including senior design, marketing, operational and finance executives. Any loss or interruption of the services of one or more of our executive officers or key personnel could result in our inability to manage our operations effectively and/or pursue our business strategy. Because competition for our employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our planned growth. Our ability to provide high quality products, as well as our ability to execute our business plan generally, depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. We have in the past experienced, and we expect to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. The location of our corporate offices outside of New York City has made it 24 increasingly difficult to recruit personnel in certain fields, such as finance, marketing and design. We might not be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. As we enter new markets, we may not be able to successfully adapt our products and marketing strategy for use in those markets. Our strategy includes leveraging our brands and products to enter new markets. We might not be successful in our efforts to adapt our products and marketing strategy for use in those markets. If these efforts are not successful, we may realize less than expected earnings, which in turn could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. Furthermore, these efforts may divert management attention or inefficiently utilize our resources. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and require significant management time and attention. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). The requirements of these rules and regulations have in the past increased, and may further increase in the future, our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and may also place undue strain on our systems and resources. The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we report on the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, and internal controls over financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight will be required. In addition, beginning with our 2006 fiscal year, we were required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes- Oxley Act. As a result, management's attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified independent members of our Board of Directors and qualified members of our management team. The worldwide apparel industry is heavily influenced by general economic conditions. The apparel industry is highly cyclical and heavily dependent upon the overall level of consumer spending. Purchases of apparel and related goods tend to be highly correlated with changes in the disposable income of consumers. Consumer spending is dependent on a number of factors, including actual and perceived economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income (such as unemployment, wages and salaries), business conditions, interest rates, availability of credit and tax rates in the general economy and in the international, regional and local markets where our products are sold. Our wholesale customers may anticipate and respond to adverse changes in economic conditions and uncertainty by reducing inventories and canceling orders. Furthermore, in such circumstances, our customers may encounter difficulties in other apparel categories or their non-apparel businesses that may cause them to change their strategy with respect to intimate apparel. As a result, any deterioration in general economic conditions, reductions in the level of consumer spending or increases in interest rates in any of the regions in which we compete could adversely affect the sales of our products. A return to recessionary or inflationary conditions, whether in the United States or globally, additional terrorist attacks or similar events could have further adverse effects on consumer confidence and spending and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 25 Other Risks The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. The price of our common stock may be higher or lower than the price you pay to purchase your shares, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. The fluctuations could cause you to lose all or part of your investment in our shares of common stock. Factors that could cause fluctuation in the trading price of our common stock may include, but are not limited to, the following: •price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; •significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of apparel companies generally or intimate apparel companies in particular or other consumer product companies; •actual or anticipated variations in our earnings or operating results; •actual or anticipated changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock; •market conditions or trends in our industry and the economy as a whole; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; •announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; •capital commitments; •loss of a major customer or the loss of a particular product line with a major customer; •additions or departures of key personnel; and •sales of our common stock, including sales of large blocks of our common stock or sales by our directors and officers. In addition, if the market for apparel company stocks or the stock market in general experiences loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, results of operations or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry or related industries even if these events do not directly affect us. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price, we may therefore be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources from our business. The concentrated ownership of our capital stock by insiders will likely limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of March 7, 2007, our executive officers, directors, current 5% or greater stockholders and affiliated entities (based upon the most recent filings with the SEC with respect to each such stockholder) together beneficially own approximately 47% of our common stock outstanding. Among the 5% or greater stockholders as of the same date, Ares Corporate Opportunities Fund, L.P. ("Ares"), who is our largest stockholder, beneficially owned approximately 16% of our common stock outstanding. As a result, these stockholders, should they act together, may be able to influence or control matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers and acquisitions. These stockholders 26 may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. Corporate action might be taken even if other stockholders oppose them. This concentration of ownership might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company that other stockholders may view as beneficial, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. The future sale of shares of our common stock may negatively affect our stock price. If our existing stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding options in the public market, or if our stockholders are perceived by the market as intending to sell substantial amounts of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could fall. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Our stockholders could sell large blocks of securities, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock by our existing stockholders or the perception that those sales could occur may adversely affect the market price for our common stock. We do not expect to pay any dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price could decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws or Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Delaware corporate law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions: •authorize the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock that our board could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt; •provide that the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and •establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 27 