ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Bank is subject to periodic joint examinations by the FDIC and TDFI and the Corporation is subject to periodic inspections by the Federal Reserve Bank. The Bank's regulators have proposed certain enforcement actions and are seeking the restatement of certain regulatory financial statements, which could result in the restatement of the Corporation's financial statements for the same periods. These enforcement actions and requested restatements could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition, results of operations and the value of our common stock. A joint examination of the Bank by the FDIC and TDFI occurred from August 2, 2010 to September 3, 2010 and the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta has recently commenced a regular inspection of the Bank. As a result, the of the Bank examination, the Bank was been deemed to be in troubled condition on March 17, 2011. Accordingly, the Bank and Corporation are now subject to certain restrictions and limitations, which include seeking prior regulatory written approval for the appointment of a new director or senior executive officer, or any change in a current senior executive officer's responsibilities. Moreover, the Bank and the Corporation are subject to restrictions under the FDIC's Golden Parachute and Indemnification Regulation, which generally preclude entering into and paying certain severance payments to directors and senior executive officers, without prior FDIC approval in the case of the Bank and Federal Reserve Board, and FDIC approval in the case of the Corporation. In addition, the Bank is unable to bid on any failed banks from the FDIC. Based upon the Bank examination, we have been advised that the FDIC and TDFI will be seeking formal enforcement actions. Management is currently in discussions with the FDIC and TDFI and any consent enforcement agreements would be subject to negotiation before issuance. Based on the joint examination and these discussions to date, any enforcement action to which the Bank may become subject could include, but would not be limited to, a varying degree of requirements, including, among other things, a requirement that the Bank increase its capital ratios, improve asset quality, increase earnings, improve liquidity, improve sensitivity to market risk, alter our capital adequacy category, increase the level of our loan and lease loss allowance, dispose certain assets and liabilities within a prescribed period of time or both, develop a strategic plan governing the Bank's future operations, address potential regulatory violations as well as management's performance in addressing the foregoing perceived deficiencies. Moreover, the FDIC and TDFI have advised the Bank because of inadequacies in its allowance for loan and lease losses, and loan impairment methodologies, a restatement of the Bank's allowance for loan and lease losses in its periodic reports to the regulators for the quarters ended December 31, 2009, March 31, 2010 and June 30, 2010 should be restated. Although the FDIC and TDFI focused on these three reporting periods in the examination, we anticipate that any restatement could also include financial statements for the period ending September 30, 2010. Restatement of the Bank's regulatory periodic reports likely will result in the restatement of the Corporation's financial statements for the same periods and included in this annual report. We strongly disagree with many of the findings in the report of examination, especially the factors giving rise to the need to restate our prior financial statements, primarily due to differences in our loan and lease loss impairment analysis. However, the changes that may be made in the restatement may be material in the quarter made and may be material to the full year period in which the quarterly results are included. FDIC and TDFI have proposed an increase in our allowance for loan and lease losses of up to approximately $16 million, an amount not recognized in the financial statements to this annual report. We do not concur with this amount and our regulators have not provided us with their methodology. Accordingly, if ultimately required, the increase to our allowance for loan and lease losses may differ from the amount our regulators are requiring. In accordance with established procedures of the FDIC and TDFI we plan to vigorously appeal what we believe to be the various inaccuracies contained in the report of examination, including the required impairment charges. While we have 60-days to file an appeal after the receipt of a material supervisory determination, we cannot predict the timing of a final regulatory determination or whether we will prevail. Moreover, based on the ongoing inspection of the Corporation by the Federal Reserve Bank, it is possible that the Federal Reserve Bank would seek an enforcement action involving the Corporation with respect to similar issues. The terms of any enforcement actions, or 19 Table of Contents the amount of any restatement could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition, results of operations and the value of our common stock. In the future we may be subject to regulatory actions that restrict our ability to satisfy our obligations under our Series A Preferred Stock and outstanding trust preferred securities, which could result in defaults that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition, or results of operations. In August 2010, pursuant to a request from the Federal Reserve Bank as a result of its 2009 inspection of us, our board of directors adopted resolutions whereby we agreed to obtain the written approval of the Federal Reserve Bank prior to: •incurring additional indebtedness at the parent level, including indebtedness associated with trust preferred securities; •taking any action that would cause a change in debt instruments relating to indebtedness incurred at the parent level; •declaring or paying dividends to common or preferred shareholders; •reducing our capital position by purchasing or redeeming treasury stock; and •making any distributions of interest, principal or other sums on subordinated debentures or trust preferred securities. As of February 9, 2011 and March 1, 2011, we were approved by the Federal Reserve Bank to make dividend payments on our Series A Preferred Stock that were due on February 15, 2011 and distributions for our outstanding trust preferred securities that were due on March 15, 2011 and March 31, 2011. However, the Federal Reserve Bank advised the Corporation that approval of future payments will be dependent upon noticeable improvement in the Corporation's consolidated financial condition and performance as determined by the Bank's primary regulators and the Federal Reserve Bank. Based upon the Bank's recent examination findings, we can provide no assurance, however, that the Federal Reserve Bank will approve future dividend and distribution payments on these securities. If we are prohibited by the Federal Reserve Bank from making future dividend and distribution payments, we may experience a default under our Series A Preferred Stock or outstanding trust preferred securities, which could give the holders of such stock and securities the right to enforce remedies available to them under the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock or trust preferred securities, including, for the trust preferred securities, the right to institute a legal proceeding against the Company to enforce the full and unconditional guarantee of the Company for payment of distributions due to the holders of such securities on specified dates. Any such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition or results of operations. As noted above, if the Corporation fails to declare and pay full dividends (or declare and set aside a sum sufficient for payment thereof) on the Series A Preferred Stock, it will be unable to declare or pay dividends or make distributions on, or repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for consideration, shares of its common stock or other stock ranking junior to, or in parity with, the Series A Preferred Stock. Moreover, if we are unable to pay dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock for six quarters (whether or not consecutive), the Treasury is authorized to appoint up to two directors to our board of directors. Our concentration of commercial and industrial loans expose us to credit risks. At December 31, 2010, our portfolio of commercial and industrial loans totaled $648.2 million, or 52.7% of total loans. This type of loans generally exposes us to a greater risk of nonpayment and loss than other non-commercial loans because repayment of such loans often depends on the successful operations and income stream of the borrowers. Additionally, such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to other non-commercial loans and many of our borrowers have more than one such loan outstanding. Consequently, an adverse development with respect 20 Table of Contents to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to other non-commercial loans. Further, we could sustain losses if we incorrectly assess the creditworthiness of such borrowers or fail to detect or respond to deterioration in asset quality in a timely manner. Problems with asset quality could cause our interest income and net interest margin to decrease and our provision for loan losses to increase, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Commercial and industrial loans are generally secured by a variety of forms of collateral related to the underlying business, such as equipment, accounts receivable and inventory. Should a loan require us to foreclose on the underlying collateral, the foreclosure expense may be significant if the collateral is of a unique nature. The collateral may be difficult to liquidate, and weak market conditions may depress the value of such collateral, increasing the risk to us of recovering the principal amount of the loan. Accordingly, our financial condition may be adversely affected by defaults in this portfolio. We have a concentration of credit exposure to borrowers in the transportation industry. At December 31, 2010, we had total credit exposure to borrowers in the transportation industry of $127.9 million, or 10.4% of our total loans. Our borrowers in this industry are primarily small businesses and owner-operators. This industry is experiencing adversity in the current economic environment and, as a result, some borrowers in this industry have been unable to perform their obligations under their loan agreements with us, which has negatively impacted our results of operations. When any of these borrowers default on the corresponding loans, we typically repossess the transportation-related collateral, primarily over-the-road tractors, and endeavor to sell the asset at retail value through selected dealers. During fiscal year 2010, we repossessed approximately 865 trucks in connection with defaulted loans in this industry and resold approximately 375 trucks we had repossessed. If the current recessionary environment continues, additional borrowers in this industry may be unable to meet their obligations under existing loan agreements, which could cause our earnings to be negatively impacted. Further, we may not be able to sell repossessed assets in this industry at favorable prices, which could have an adverse effect on our net income. Any of our large credit exposures in this industry that deteriorate unexpectedly could cause us to have to make significant additional loan loss provisions, negatively impacting our earnings. Our current sources of funds might not be sufficient to meet our future liquidity needs. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. The primary sources of our funds are loan repayments and customer deposits. Scheduled loan repayments are subject to the ability of borrowers to repay the loans. The ability of borrowers to repay loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in general economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups, reductions in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, rising fuel prices, inclement weather, natural disasters and international instability. Customer deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, returns available to customers on alternative investments and general economic conditions. We also rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. These sources include brokered deposits, internet deposits, Federal Home Loan Bank advances and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks. There can be no assurance that these sources will be sufficient to meet future liquidity demands. We may be required to slow or discontinue loan growth, capital expenditures or other investments or liquidate assets should these sources not be adequate. Our liquidity, at the parent level, would be adversely affected by regulatory restrictions on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to us. 21 Table of Contents Our use of internet and brokered deposits could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. Over the last eight consecutive quarters, our loan demand has exceeded the rate at which we have been able to increase our deposits and, as a result, internet and brokered deposits have been a source of funds with which to make loans and provide liquidity. We post rates to an internet-based program that retail and institutional investors nationwide subscribe to in order to invest funds. As of December 31, 2010, internet and brokered deposits amounted to $395.8 million and $103.0 million, respectively, totaling $498.8 million, or 38.4% of total deposits. Generally, brokered deposits may not be as stable as other types of deposits and, in the future, those depositors may not renew their time deposits when they mature, or we may have to pay a higher rate of interest to keep those deposits or to replace them with other deposits or with funds from other sources. Additionally, if the Bank ceases to be deemed to be well capitalized for bank regulatory purposes or if an enforcement action imposes capital requirements, we may not be able to accept, renew or rollover brokered deposits without a waiver from the FDIC, or may be restricted completely from accepting, renewing or rolling over brokered deposits if the Bank becomes undercapitalized. Moreover, if the Bank is no longer deemed to be well-capitalized, interest rates the Bank is authorized to pay on all of its deposit products are limited to 75 basis points above the prevailing national average rates (local rate may be used, if approved by the FDIC). An inability to maintain or replace these brokered deposits as they mature or pay market rates in lieu of national interest rates could adversely affect our liquidity. Further, paying higher interest rates to maintain or replace these deposits could adversely affect our net interest margin and our results of operations. The availability of noncore funding sources is subject to broad economic conditions and, therefore, the cost of funds may fluctuate significantly, impacting our net interest income, our immediate liquidity and our access to additional liquidity. Capital constraints may affect our pace of growth and our ability to raise additional capital when needed is dependent on conditions outside our control. Notwithstanding our recent capital raise in 2010, our pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain specific levels of capital to support our operations, so we may at some point need to raise additional capital to support any continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and other factors, including investor perceptions regarding the banking industry and market conditions and government activities. These factors are outside our control. Accordingly, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, we might not be able to meet capital and other regulatory requirements. Further, our ability to continue our growth could be materially impaired. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. The credit quality of our borrowers has deteriorated as a result of the economic downturn in our markets. If the credit quality of our customer base or the risk profile of a market, industry or group of our customers declines further, consumer debt service behavior changes in a manner adverse to us, weaknesses in the real estate markets and other economics persist or worsen or our allowance for loan losses is not adequate, our business, financial condition, including our liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio, provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and takes a charge against earnings with respect to specific loans when their ultimate collectability is considered questionable. If management's assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require us to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, our earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. Nonperforming assets adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not realize interest income on nonaccrual loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting our income and increasing our loan administration costs. When we take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related loan to the then fair market value of the collateral, which may result in a loss. Nonaccrual loans and other real estate owned also increase our risk profile, which could result in an increase in the capital that our regulators believe is appropriate in light of such risks. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from management, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. We rely on the services of key personnel. We depend substantially on the strategies and management services of certain of our officers—Michael R. Sapp, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President; Frank Perez, Chief Financial Officer; and H. Lamar Cox, Chief Operating Officer. The loss of the services of any of these officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are also dependent on certain other key officers who have important customer relationships or are instrumental to our operations. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Management believes that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management, as well as sales and marketing personnel. We compete with a large number of other financial institutions in the Nashville MSA for such personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could adversely affect our financial condition. Market developments have significantly depleted the DIF and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC Board recently approved a final rule that implements a new deposit insurance assessment system for insured depository institutions. Among other things, the new assessment structure modifies an institution's current deposit insurance assessment base from adjusted domestic deposits to an institution's average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The new assessment base would be larger than the current base, however the new assessment structure includes revisions to the total base assessment rate schedule by lowering assessments rates, after adjustments, to a range between 2.5 and 45 basis points depending on an institution's risk category, subject to progressively lower rates as the DIF reserve ratio reaches certain milestones. Importantly, the final rule retains flexibility for the FDIC Board to adopt actual rates that are higher or lower than total base assessment rates without requiring further notice-and-comment rulemaking, subject to limitations providing that: (1) the FDIC Board cannot increase or decrease rates from one quarter to the next by more than 2 basis points; and (2) cumulative increases and decreases cannot be more than 2 basis points higher or lower than the total base assessment rates. The impact of the final rule, and/or additional FDIC special assessments or other regulatory changes affecting the financial services industry could negatively affect the Corporation's liquidity and financial results in future periods. 23 Table of Contents Our business is subject to the financial health of certain local economies. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and new businesses in the Nashville MSA and the other markets in which we have significant loan production efforts. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing local or national economic conditions are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. Adverse economic conditions in our market areas could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our market areas if they do occur. National market funding outside of the Nashville MSA has unique risks related to the potential disposition of collateral upon foreclosure. At December 31, 2010, approximately 21.2% of our loan portfolio was composed of national market funding loans to businesses located outside of the Nashville MSA that were made through a small network of equipment vendors and financial service companies with which we have had historical relationships. This lending creates somewhat different risks from those typical for community banks. The geographic diversity of our loan portfolio as well as the collateral securing loans within that portfolio may result in longer time periods to locate collateral and higher costs to dispose of collateral in the event that the collateral is used to satisfy the loan obligation. Our business strategy includes the continuation of growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if our business strategies are not effectively executed. We intend to continue pursuing a growth strategy for our business through organic growth of the loan portfolio. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties that can be encountered by financial service companies in rapid growth stages, which include the risks associated with the following: •maintaining loan quality; •maintaining adequate management personnel and information systems to oversee such growth; •maintaining adequate control and compliance functions; and •securing capital and liquidity needed to support our anticipated growth. There can be no assurance that we will maintain or achieve deposit levels, loan balances or other operating results necessary to avoid losses or produce profits. Our growth will cause growth in overhead expenses as we add staff. As a result, historical results may not be indicative of future results. Failure to successfully address these issues identified above could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations. Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our profitability by reducing our ability to attract and retain deposits and originate loans. The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition in our markets from many other financial institutions. We compete with other commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other mutual funds, as well as other community banks and super-regional and national financial institutions that operate in the Nashville MSA and elsewhere. We not only compete with these companies in the Nashville MSA, but also in the regional and national markets in which we engage in our indirect funding programs. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability 24 Table of Contents depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete with an array of financial institutions in the Nashville MSA, and regionally and nationally with respect to our indirect funding programs. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in interest rates may affect our level of interest income, the primary component of our gross revenue, as well as the level of our interest expense. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Accordingly, changes in interest rates could decrease our net interest income. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. We may experience significant fluctuations in non-interest income from period to period. Historically, a substantial portion of our non-interest income has been derived from the sale of loans. We sell loans from time to time, particularly loans generated for our national market funding portfolio. The timing and extent of these loan sales may not be predictable, and could cause material variation in our non-interest income on a period-to-period basis. Our results of operation may be affected by seasonal factors. Certain of our commercial customers operate in industries that are seasonal in nature, most notably the transportation industry. Operating results in the transportation industry have been historically weakest during the first quarter because of reduced shipping demand after the holiday season and inclement weather, which reduces demand and impedes the ability to transport freight. As a result, both the demand for new loans by customers in seasonal industries, including the transportation industry, and the ability of existing customers in these industries to service loans may be reduced during the first quarter, which may in turn have an adverse effect on our interest income, loan losses and results of operation during that quarter. In addition, our ability to realize gain on repossessed collateral, including transportation-sensitive assets, may be subject to the seasonality of demand for consumer goods and transportation services, which is typically lowest during the first quarter. Accordingly, we may obtain less favorable prices for such repossessed collateral that we sell during the first quarter or we may extend the holding period of such collateral to enhance the recovery value, which may in turn have an adverse effect on our non-interest income and results of operation during that quarter. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected and may continue to affect our industry. We are exposed to downturns in the U.S. economy, and particularly the local markets in which we operate. Declines in the housing markets over the past several years, including falling home prices and sales volumes, and increasing foreclosures, have negatively affected the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. This market turmoil and the tightening of credit have led to increased levels of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and reductions in business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business, financial 25 Table of Contents condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and other financial institutions. In particular: •We expect to face increased regulation of our industry, particularly as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act enacted in July 2010, which requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and regulations, and to prepare various studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting such rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for months or years. Compliance with such regulations may increase our non-interest expenses and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities; •Market developments, government programs and the winding down of various government programs may continue to adversely affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in borrower behaviors and payment rates, resulting in further increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could adversely affect our loan charge-offs and our provisions for credit losses; •Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers or to estimate the values of our assets and collateral for loans will be reduced if the models and approaches we use become less predictive of future behaviors, valuations, assumptions or estimates. We estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure, the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses and the values of certain assets by using estimates based on difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including estimates as to the effects of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans or the value of assets; and •Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions on favorable terms or at all, or to raise capital, could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including, among other things, deterioration in investor expectations and changes in the FDIC's resolution authority or practices. Failures of other depository institutions in our markets and increasing consolidation of financial services companies as a result of current market conditions could increase our deposits and assets, necessitating additional capital, and may have unexpected adverse effects upon our ability to compete effectively. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies including the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC and the TDFI. Ensuring regulatory compliance is costly and serves to restrict certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, and interest rates paid on deposits. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Most recently, the Dodd-Frank Act enacted in July 2010 calls for sweeping reforms to the financial services industry. A number of provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act remain to be implemented through the rulemaking process at various regulatory agencies. We are unable to predict what the final form of these rules will be when implemented by the respective agencies, but management believes that certain aspects of the new legislation, including without limitations, the additional cost of higher deposit insurance and the costs of compliance with disclosure and reporting requirements and examinations by the new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. It is possible that there will be continued changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in the future. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services 26 Table of Contents and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. We cannot predict the extent to which the government and governmental organizations may change any of these laws or controls. We also cannot predict how such changes would adversely affect our business and prospects. Our issuance of securities to Treasury may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock and may result in other restrictions to our operations. Pursuant to the CPP under TARP, we issued and sold to Treasury, for an aggregate purchase price of $30 million in cash, (i) 30,000 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock, having a liquidation preference of $1,000, and (ii) a ten-year warrant to purchase up to 461,538 shares of common stock, at an exercise price of $9.75 per share, subject to certain anti-dilution and other adjustments. The dilutive impact of the warrant may have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock and may be dilutive of our earnings per share. In addition, we are required to pay cumulative dividends at a rate of 5% per annum for the first five years, and thereafter at a rate of 9% per annum on the Series A Preferred Stock. Depending on our financial condition at the time, these dividends could have a negative effect on our liquidity. The shares of Series A Preferred Stock will receive preferential treatment in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. The rules and policies applicable to recipients of capital under the TARP CPP continue to evolve, and their scope, timing and effect cannot be accurately predicted. Any redemption of the securities sold to Treasury to avoid these restrictions would require prior approval by the Federal Reserve Board and Treasury. The TARP CPP and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or the ARRA, impose, and other proposed rules may impose additional, executive compensation and corporate governance requirements that may adversely affect us and our business, including our ability to recruit and retain qualified employees. The agreements that we entered into in connection with our participation in the TARP CPP required us to adopt Treasury's standards for executive compensation and corporate governance while Treasury holds the equity issued pursuant to the TARP CPP. These standards generally apply to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers. The standards include: •ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the financial institution; •requiring the clawback of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; •prohibiting the making of golden parachute payments to senior executives; and •prohibiting the deduction for tax purposes of executive compensation in excess of $500,000 for each senior executive. In particular, the change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation may increase the overall cost of our compensation programs in future periods. The ARRA imposed further limitations on compensation during the period in which Treasury holds the equity issued pursuant to the TARP CPP, including: •a prohibition on making any golden parachute payment to a senior executive officer or any of our next five most highly compensated employees; •a prohibition on any compensation plan that would encourage manipulation of the reported earnings to enhance the compensation of any of our employees; and 27 Table of Contents •a prohibition of the five highest paid executives from receiving or accruing any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation, except for long-term restricted stock with a value not greater than one-third of the total amount of annual compensation of the employee receiving the stock. The compensation and corporate governance standards and requirements of Section 111 of EESA, as amended by the ARRA, are set forth in the implementing regulations of the Treasury and SEC, which further expand the limitations and restrictions imposed on executive compensation and corporate governance by the TARP CPP and the ARRA. These rules also prohibit any tax gross-up payments to senior executive officers and the next 20 highest paid executives; require a "say on pay" vote at annual shareholders' meetings; and restrict stock or stock units granted to executives that may vest or become transferable. Moreover, the Board of Directors of the FDIC recently approved a joint proposed rulemaking to implement Section 956 of the Dodd-Frank Act, which prohibits incentive-based compensation arrangements that encourage inappropriate risk taking by covered financial institutions and are deemed to be excessive, or that may lead to material losses for the financial institution. The proposed rule covers banks with total consolidated assets of $1 billion or more, and contains heightened standards for institutions with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets. These provisions and any future rules issued by Treasury, the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC or any other regulatory agencies could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain management sufficiently capable and motivated to manage and operate our business through difficult economic and market conditions. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees to manage and operate our business, we may not be able to successfully execute our business strategy. Lending goals of the TARP CPP may not be attainable. The Corporation participates in the TARP CPP. Congress and the bank regulators have encouraged recipients of capital under the TARP CPP to use such capital to make loans and it may not be possible to safely, soundly and profitably make sufficient loans to creditworthy persons in the current economy to satisfy such goals. Recipients of TARP CPP capital are subject to Congressional and regulatory demands for additional lending and requirements that they demonstrate and report such lending. Specific lending requirements are unclear and uncertain, and the Bank could be forced to make loans that involve risks or terms that we would not otherwise find acceptable or in our shareholders' best interest. Such loans could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition, and may be in conflict with bank regulations and requirements as to liquidity and capital. The profitability of funding such loans using deposits may be adversely affected by increased FDIC insurance premiums. Changes to the TARP CPP program and future rules applicable to TARP CPP recipients could adversely affect our operations, financial condition and results of operations. The rules and policies applicable to recipients of capital under the TARP CPP continue to evolve and their scope, timing and effect cannot be predicted. Any redemption of the securities sold to Treasury to avoid these restrictions would require prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board and Treasury. Therefore, it is uncertain if we will be able to redeem such securities even if we have sufficient financial resources to do so. In addition, the government is contemplating potential new programs under the TARP CPP and other governmental initiatives, including programs to promote small business lending, among others. It is uncertain whether we will qualify for those new programs and whether those new programs may impose additional restrictions on our operation and affect our financial condition in the future. 28 Table of Contents The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems, losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. We could experience increases in deposits and assets as a result of other banks' difficulties or failure, which would increase the capital we need to support such growth. Changes to accounting and tax rules applicable to us could adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. Our ability to utilize certain net operating losses ("NOLs") may be limited under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and certain state and federal law provisions. As of December 31, 2010, we had NOLs of $52.0 million for U.S. federal income tax purposes and $13.6 million for state income tax purposes. State NOLs exist in the jurisdictions of Tennessee, Alabama, Georgia and Minnesota. These NOLs will expire at various dates beginning in 2017 if not previously utilized. Utilization of U.S. federal and certain state NOLs may be subject to a substantial annual limitation if the ownership change thresholds under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code are triggered by changes in the ownership of our capital stock. Such an annual limitation could result in the expiration of our NOLs before utilization. In the event we merge into another company, certain of the state NOLs remaining at such time may be lost. As a TARP CPP participant, we are not permitted to make the special election for one taxable year ending after December 31, 2007 and beginning before January 1, 2010 to carry-back losses for five years for federal income tax purposes as otherwise permitted generally under the Worker, Homeownership, and Business Assistance Act of 2009. Even though our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, the trading volume of our common stock has been low and the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could depress the price of our common stock. While our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, the trading volume of our common stock is relatively low and we cannot be certain if or when a more active and liquid trading market for our common stock will develop or whether such a market could be sustained. Because of this, our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices or times that they desire. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock, or availability of shares of our common stock for sale, will have on the market price of our common stock. We therefore can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the potential for large amounts of sales, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. 29 Table of Contents Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock may, under certain circumstances, have the right to elect two directors to our board of directors. In the event that we fail to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock for an aggregate of six quarterly dividend periods or more (whether or not consecutive), the authorized number of directors then constituting our board of directors will be increased by two. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, together with the holders of any outstanding parity stock with like voting rights voting as a single class, will then be entitled to elect the two additional members of our board of directors at the next annual meeting (or at a special meeting called for the purpose of electing such directors prior to the next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods have been paid in full. Holders of our subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders. In 2005 and 2008, we issued trust preferred securities from two affiliated special purpose trusts and accompanying subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2010, we had outstanding trust preferred securities and accompanying subordinated debentures totaling $23.2 million. Subject to the receipt of any required regulatory approval, our board of directors may decide to issue additional tranches of trust preferred securities in the future if markets for these securities are favorable. We conditionally guarantee payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities. Further, the accompanying subordinated debentures we issued to the trust are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on our subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for a period not to exceed 20 consecutive quarters, during which time we may not pay dividends on our common stock. We may issue additional common stock or other equity securities in the future which could dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. We are currently authorized to issue 20,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 12,194,884 shares were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2010, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which 30,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2010. To maintain our capital at desired levels or required regulatory levels, or to fund future growth, our board of directors may decide from time to time, without any action by or a vote of our shareholders, to issue additional shares of common stock, or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or representing rights to acquire shares of our common stock. In addition, the sale of securities issued under our 2007 Equity Plan may dilute our shareholders' ownership interest as a shareholder and the market price of our common stock. New investors in other equity securities issued by us in the future may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current shareholders which may adversely impact our current shareholders. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain earnings and increase capital in furtherance of our overall business objectives. In addition, the CPP under TARP imposes certain limitations on our ability to pay dividends. Until the earlier of December 19, 2011 or when Treasury no longer holds any shares of the Series A Preferred Stock, we will not be able to pay dividends without the approval of Treasury, with limited exceptions. We are restricted from paying any dividends on our common stock unless we are current on our dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. 30 Table of Contents Further, we derive our income solely from dividends on the shares of common stock of the Bank, and the Bank's ability to declare and pay dividends to us is limited by its obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other general restrictions on its dividends that are applicable to banks that are regulated by the FDIC and the TDFI. Accordingly, no assurances can be given that we will declare any dividend or, if declared, what the amount of such dividend would be or whether such dividends would continue in the future. Any future determination as to the payment of dividends on our common stock will be made by our board of directors in its discretion, subject to applicable regulatory and contractual limitations, and will depend upon our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and other relevant factors. Investors in shares of our common stock must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize a gain on their investment. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company and diminish the value of our common stock. Some of the provisions of our charter and bylaws could make it difficult for our shareholders to change the composition of our board of directors, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that our shareholders may consider favorable. These provisions include: •authorizing our board of directors to issue preferred shares without shareholder approval; •the presence of a classified board of directors; •any merger, consolidation, share exchange or similar transaction involving us will require a two-thirds vote of shareholders; and •certain amendments to our charter require approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of our common stock. These anti-takeover provisions could impede the ability of our common shareholders to benefit from a change of control and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and your ability to realize any potential change-in-control premium. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 