Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following factors, together with all other information included in this report, in evaluating our company and our business. Risks Related to Our Business We operate in the highly competitive branded consumer electronics industry. In certain markets, such as home audio and satellite radio, we compete directly or indirectly with a large number of competitors, including some of the world’s most recognized branded consumer electronics companies. Many of these companies have greater market recognition, larger customer bases, and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, and other resources than we possess, which afford them competitive advantages over us. Further, the mobile video market is intensely competitive and is characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change, and competition from major domestic and international companies. OEMs offer certain products with which we compete, such as mobile audio and mobile video, and could attempt to offer additional 15 Table of Contents competing products or our customers could determine to adopt a private label sales strategy, either of which could reduce our sales. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, both within and outside our control. These factors include the following: • our success in designing and developing new or enhanced products; • our ability to address the needs of our retailers and consumers; • the pricing, quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of installation and use, and diversity of our products; • the quality of our customer service; • product or technology introductions by our competitors; • ability of our contract manufacturers to deliver on time, on price, and with acceptable quality; and • restricted access to component parts such as microprocessors and LCD screens. The success of competing products or technologies could substantially reduce the demand for our products and cause our sales to decline. If we do not continue to improve our core products or develop new products that meet the constantly changing demands of our customers, our sales may decline. Our ability to succeed is based in large part on meeting the demands of the branded consumer electronics market. We must regularly improve our core products and introduce new products and technologies that gain market acceptance, such as our introduction of two-way security and convenience devices, mobile video, mobile navigation, and satellite radio products in recent years. Our future operating results will depend to a significant extent on our ability to provide products that compare favorably on the basis of time to introduction, cost, and performance with the products of our competitors. We may experience difficulties that delay or prevent the development, introduction, or market acceptance of new products and technologies. Some or all of our products may not achieve commercial success as a result of technological problems, competitive cost issues, and other factors. Our delivery schedules for new products may be delayed due to manufacturing or other difficulties. In addition, our retailers may determine not to introduce or may cease to sell our new products for a variety of reasons, including the following: • unfavorable comparisons with products introduced by others; • superior technologies developed by our competitors; • price considerations; and • lack of anticipated or actual market demand for our products. We may be unable to recover any expenditures we make relating to one or more new products or technologies that ultimately prove to be unsuccessful for any reason. In addition, any investments or acquisitions made to enhance our technologies may prove to be unsuccessful. We depend upon certain key customers for a large portion of our sales, and the loss of any of those customers could harm our business. For the year ended December 31, 2007, sales to our top five customers, including our international distributors, accounted for approximately 45% of our net product sales of which Best Buy (including its subsidiary Magnolia Audio Video) accounted for approximately 21% of our net product sales. In addition, Circuit City accounted for approximately 10% our net product sales for the year ended December 31, 2007. Reliance on key customers may make fluctuations in revenue and earnings more severe and make business planning more difficult. 16 Table of Contents Our customers do not provide us with firm, long-term volume purchase commitments. As a result, customers can cancel purchase commitments or reduce or delay orders on relatively short notice. Any material delay, cancellation, or reduction of orders from any of our key customers could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The adverse effect would be more pronounced if our other customers did not increase their orders or if we were unsuccessful in generating new customers. Adverse developments affecting SIRIUS Satellite Radio could cause our sales to decline and harm our business. In August 2004, we began selling, marketing, and distributing products for SIRIUS Satellite Radio, a subscription-based satellite radio company that provides content to compatible receivers, including the SIRIUS-branded receivers we distribute. The agreement also permits SIRIUS to distribute SIRIUS products directly to consumers. The sale of SIRIUS products currently accounts for a significant (approximately 29% for the year ended December 31, 2007) portion of our net product sales, including sales of satellite radio products that we sell directly to SIRIUS. Our agreement with SIRIUS expires in August 2008 and, unless extended, our sales would decline significantly upon expiration of that agreement. In February 2007, SIRIUS and XM Radio announced a definitive agreement pursuant to which SIRIUS and XM Radio will combine their businesses. While SIRIUS and XM Radio shareholders have approved the transaction, it will require governmental approval. Although our business relationship with SIRIUS remains strong, the impact of the proposed business combination on our future relationship with SIRIUS is uncertain. In general, the satellite radio business is still a relatively new and unproven business, and SIRIUS Satellite Radio has incurred substantial losses since its inception. The satellite radio market in general, and SIRIUS in particular, may fail to develop and may never reach profitability, which could cause SIRIUS to discontinue its business. If SIRIUS is forced to discontinue its operations, our sales would decline and our business could be harmed. In addition, SIRIUS could change its hardware distribution strategy in the future, including entering into arrangements with one or more of our competitors in addition to or instead of us, or could determine to sell the hardware itself. To increase satellite radio subscriptions, satellite radio receivers are being heavily promoted by SIRIUS, XM Radio, and retailers at reduced retail prices. While our performance is based on negotiated wholesale prices and manufacturing costs, we must generate higher unit sales volume to maintain revenue and profits from these products in this promotional environment. A decline in discretionary spending would likely cause our sales to decline. The consumer products that we sell constitute discretionary purchases. As a result, a recession in the general economy or other conditions affecting disposable consumer income and retail sales would likely reduce our sales. Consumer spending is volatile and is affected by many factors, including interest rates, consumer confidence levels, tax rates, employment levels and prospects, and general economic conditions. We rely on contract manufacturers, and their failure to maintain satisfactory delivery schedules could increase our costs, disrupt our supply chain, and result in our inability to deliver our products, all of which would adversely affect our operating results. Essentially all of our products are manufactured and assembled by outsourcing partners, which are primarily located in China, Taiwan, and South Korea. Four of our suppliers account for a significant portion of our purchases. Two of these suppliers manufacture SIRIUS satellite radio receivers in Taiwan and China. Our largest security and convenience supplier and our largest home audio supplier also account for a significant portion of our purchases. We do not have long-term (more than one year) arrangements with any of our contract manufacturers that guarantee production capacity or prices. Certain of our contract manufacturers serve other customers, a number of which have greater production requirements than we do. As a result, our contract manufacturers could determine to prioritize production capacity for other customers or reduce or eliminate services for us on short notice. Qualifying new manufacturers is time-consuming and could result in unforeseen manufacturing and operational problems. The loss of our relationships with our contract manufacturers or their inability to conduct their manufacturing services for us 17 Table of Contents as anticipated in terms of cost, quality, and timeliness could adversely affect our ability to fill customer orders in accordance with required delivery, quality, and performance requirements. Additionally, rapid increases in orders from any of our larger customers could cause our requirements to exceed the capacity of our contract manufacturers. If any of these events were to occur, the resulting decline in revenue would harm our business. Shortages of components and materials may delay or reduce our sales and increase our costs. The inability of our contract manufacturers to obtain sufficient quantities of components and other materials, such as LCD panels and controller chips, necessary to make our products could result in delayed sales or lost orders. We may be faced with increased costs, supply interruptions, and difficulties in obtaining certain components. Materials and components for some of our major products may not be available in sufficient quantities to satisfy our needs because of shortages of these materials and components. Any supply interruption or shortages could harm our reputation with our customers and may result in lost sales opportunities. Because we outsource essentially all of our manufacturing to third parties, which are primarily located in China, Taiwan, and South Korea, we are subject to the economic risks associated with changes in the social, political, regulatory, and economic conditions inherent in these countries. Substantially all of our products are manufactured outside of the United States. Transportation delays or interruptions, such as those caused by labor strikes, natural disasters, terrorism, inspection delays, or import restrictions, could impede our ability to timely deliver our products to our customers. These interruptions could also increase our costs, if, for example, we were forced to ship our products from our suppliers via air rather than via ocean carrier. A disruption in our ability to import our products could increase our costs, cause our sales to decline, and harm our business. Changes in policies by the United States or foreign governments resulting in, among other things, increased duties, higher taxation, currency conversion limitations, restrictions on the transfer or repatriation of funds, limitations on imports or exports, or the expropriation of private enterprises also could have a material adverse effect on us or our suppliers. In addition, U.S. trade policies, such as the granting or revocation of “most favored nation” status and trade preferences for certain Asian nations, including China, Taiwan, and South Korea, could affect our business and sales of our products. In addition, because a large portion of our products are manufactured by companies located in both China and Taiwan, we are subject to additional risks due to the tense relationship between the Taiwanese and Chinese governments, which has been strained in recent years. Any significant deterioration of relations between Taiwan and China, or between the United States and China, could have far-reaching effects on companies that import major portions of their supplies or finished products from China, including us, and could impact the operations of our suppliers in Taiwan and China. This would adversely affect our ability to obtain a majority of our products on a timely basis, at reasonable costs, or at all. We do not have long-term arrangements with any of our contract manufacturers that guarantee production capacity or prices. As a result, increases in the cost of doing business in China, including increases due to changes in environmental and political regulations, increased competition for employees, increased costs of other raw materials, and any appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could increase our cost of sales and adversely affect our gross margins and results of operations. If we do not successfully maintain the quality of the installation of our automotive products by our retailer partners, our reputation could suffer and our sales could decline. The successful use of our automotive products depends substantially upon the proper installation of those products. This installation is generally performed by our retailer customers. Our efforts to improve the installation skills of our third party installers may not succeed. The failure by third parties to properly install our products could harm our reputation, which in turn could cause our sales to decline and could increase warranty claims and costs. 18 Table of Contents If we become subject to product returns or product liability claims resulting from defects in our products, we may face an increase in our costs, a loss of customers, or a delay in the market acceptance of our products. Our products are complex and may contain undetected defects or experience unforeseen failures when first introduced or as new versions are introduced. For example, we recently began selling remote start products intended for installation in manual transmission vehicles. Despite testing by us and our manufacturers, defects may be found in existing or new products. Any such defects could cause us to incur significant re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts, and cause significant customer relations and business reputation problems. Any such defects could force us to undertake a product recall program, which could cause us to incur significant expenses and could harm our reputation and that of our products. If we deliver products with defects, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products could be harmed. Defects could also lead to liability for defective products as a result of lawsuits against us or against our retailers. We agree to indemnify certain of our retailer customers in some circumstances against liability from defects in our products. Potential claims could include, among others, bodily injury due to an obstructed view by a mobile video screen, unintended vehicle ignition or motion from a remote start product, or the failure of our replacement headrests. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly to defend. If successful, such claims could require us to make significant damage payments in excess of our insurance limits. If we do not successfully address the risks associated with our international operations, our business could be harmed. Our sales and distribution operations in the Canadian, European, Asian, and Latin American markets create a number of logistical and communications challenges for us. Our international sales were approximately $56.1 million in 2007. We plan to increase our international sales in the future. Selling products internationally exposes us to various economic, political, and other risks, including the following: • management of a multinational organization; • the burdens and costs of compliance with local laws and regulatory requirements as well as changes in those laws and requirements; • transportation delays or interruptions and other consequences of less developed infrastructures; • overlap of tax issues; • tariffs and duties; • political or economic instability in certain parts of the world; and • protectionist trade legislation in either the United States or foreign countries. Our revenues and purchases are predominantly in U.S. Dollars. However, we collect a portion of our revenue in non-U.S. currencies, such as British Pounds Sterling and Canadian Dollars. In the future, and especially as we expand our sales in international markets, our customers may increasingly make payments in non-U.S. currencies. In addition, we account for a portion of our costs in our U.K. office and Canadian subsidiaries, such as payroll, rent, and indirect operating costs, in British Pounds Sterling or Canadian Dollars, respectively. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our sales, cost of sales, and operating margins. In addition, currency devaluation can result in a loss to us if we hold deposits of that currency. A majority of our products are made in China, which in 2005 revalued its currency, the Renminbi, upward against the U.S. Dollar. Appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar causes certain of our manufacturers’ costs to rise in U.S. Dollar terms. This could pressure our manufacturers to raise prices and thereby adversely affect our profitability. Hedging foreign currencies can be difficult, especially if the currency is not freely traded. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results. 19 Table of Contents Any acquisitions that we undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute shareholder value, and adversely affect our operating results. We may continue to review opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that would complement our current product lines, expand the breadth of our markets, enhance our technical capabilities, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. We have completed several acquisitions and are likely to buy businesses, assets, brands, or technologies in the future. If we make any future acquisitions, we could issue stock that would dilute the percentage ownership of our existing shareholders, incur substantial debt, or assume contingent liabilities. Our recent acquisitions, as well as potential future acquisitions, involve numerous risks, including the following: • challenges integrating the purchased operations, technologies, products, systems, or services with our own; • potential compliance issues with regard to acquired companies that do not have adequate internal controls; • misjudgment by us of revenue and profit potential of acquisition candidates; • unanticipated costs or hidden liabilities associated with the acquisition; • diversion of management’s attention from our existing businesses; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have little or no prior experience; and • potential loss of key employees and customers of purchased organizations. We may not be successful in overcoming these and other risks encountered in connection with such acquisitions, and our inability to do so could adversely affect our business. In addition, any strategic alliances or joint ventures we enter into may not achieve their strategic objectives, and parties to our strategic alliances or joint ventures may not perform as contemplated. Problems associated with the management or operation of, or the failure of, any strategic alliances or joint ventures could divert the attention of our management team and have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial position. Our ability to grow through acquisitions will also depend upon various factors, including the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at attractive purchase prices, our ability to compete effectively for available acquisition opportunities, and the availability of funds or common stock with a sufficient market price to complete acquisitions. As a part of our acquisition strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with various companies regarding their potential acquisition by us. In connection with these discussions, we and potential acquisition candidates often exchange confidential operational and financial information, conduct due diligence inquiries, and consider the structure, terms, and conditions of the potential acquisition. Potential acquisition discussions frequently take place over a long period of time and involve difficult business integration and other issues, including in some cases, management succession and related matters. As a result of these and other factors, a number of potential acquisitions that from time to time appear likely to occur do not result in binding legal agreements and are not consummated. Our goodwill and intangible assets have been impaired and may become impaired again in the future. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” we test our goodwill and other intangible assets at least annually to determine whether the carrying value of those assets exceeds their fair value. We completed our annual assessment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and, as a result, recorded non-cash impairment losses of $168.4 million related to goodwill and $26.5 million related to indefinite-lived intangible assets. The goodwill impairment charge was the result of the decline in our stock price as we used our market capitalization in our assessment of the fair value of our goodwill. The process of evaluating the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets is subjective and requires significant judgment. In estimating the fair value of the business and intangible assets for the purpose of our annual or periodic analyses, we make estimates and judgments about the future cash flows of our business. Although our cash flow forecasts are based on assumptions that are consistent with plans and estimates we are using to manage our underlying business, there is significant 20 Table of Contents judgment in determining the cash flows attributable to our business. If actual results are different from our forecasts, future tests may indicate additional impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets, which would adversely affect our results of operations. If, in the course of our annual or interim valuation testing procedures, we determine that a portion of the consolidated goodwill balance or other intangible assets are impaired, any non-cash charge would adversely affect our financial results. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our ability to compete effectively in our markets could be harmed. We believe that our success depends in part on protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, and trademark laws, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. We also seek to protect certain aspects of our technology under trade secret laws, which afford only limited protection. We face risks associated with our intellectual property, including the following: • intellectual property laws may not protect our intellectual property rights; • third parties may challenge, invalidate, or circumvent any patents issued to us; • unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise use information that we regard as proprietary despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights; • others may independently develop similar or superior technology, duplicate our technologies, or design around any patents issued to us; and • effective protection of intellectual property rights may be limited or unavailable in some foreign countries in which we operate. We may not be able to obtain effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright, and trade secret protection in every country in which we sell our products. We may find it necessary to take legal action in the future to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, and such action may be unsuccessful. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the United States or abroad may not be adequate, and our competitors may independently develop similar technologies. If our intellectual property protection is insufficient to protect our intellectual property rights, we could face increased competition in the markets for our products. We may be required to incur substantial expenses and divert management attention and resources in defending intellectual property litigation against us or prosecuting others for their unauthorized use of our intellectual property. The markets in which we compete can involve litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. We sometimes receive notices from third parties, including groups that have pooled their intellectual property, that claim our products infringe their rights. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties of the intellectual property rights such parties have obtained. We cannot be certain that our products and technologies do not and will not infringe issued patents or other proprietary rights of others. For example, during 2006 and 2007 we incurred substantial litigation and settlement costs in a patent infringement claim filed by Omega Patents, LLC. Any claim, with or without merit, could result in significant litigation costs and diversion of resources, including the attention of management, and could require us to enter into royalty and licensing agreements, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be unable to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and the terms of any offered licenses may not be acceptable to us. If forced to cease using such intellectual property, we may not be able to develop or obtain alternative technologies. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing, using, or selling certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, parties making such claims could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages as well as injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to make, use, or sell our products in the United States or abroad. Such a judgment would have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we are obligated under certain agreements to indemnify our customers or other parties if we infringe the proprietary rights 21 Table of Contents of third parties. Any required indemnity payments under these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business. Should any of our competitors file patent applications or obtain patents that claim inventions also claimed by us, we may choose to participate in an interference proceeding to determine the right to a patent for these inventions. Even if the outcome is favorable, this proceeding could result in substantial cost to us and disrupt our business. We sometimes need to file lawsuits to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our significant debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2007, our consolidated long-term indebtedness was $262.9 million and we had $4.0 million drawn on our revolving credit facility. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including additional borrowings under our revolving credit facility. Our substantial indebtedness and the fact that a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be used to make principal and interest payments on this indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, which would place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have less debt; • limiting, by the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, our ability to borrow additional funds; and • having a material adverse effect on our business if we fail to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements, because such failure could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in all or a substantial amount of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable. Our ability to incur significant future indebtedness, whether to finance potential acquisitions or for general corporate purposes, will depend on our ability to generate cash. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us under our senior secured credit facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we cannot make scheduled principal and interest payments on our debt obligations in the future, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, delay capital expenditures, or seek additional equity. In the fourth quarters of 2009, 2010, 2011, and 2012 we are required to make substantial balloon payments on our credit facility principal. In September 2013, our remaining principal payment due under our senior credit facility will be substantial. If we cannot satisfy these obligations from operating cash flow, we will be required to refinance all or a portion of our senior credit facility. If we are unable to refinance this or any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or to effect any other action relating to our indebtedness on satisfactory terms or at all, our business may be harmed. 22 Table of Contents Our senior secured credit facility contains restrictive terms and our failure to comply with these terms could put us in default, which would have an adverse effect on our business and operations. Our senior secured credit facility contains a number of significant covenants. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things, do the following: • incur additional indebtedness; • make capital expenditures and other investments; • merge, consolidate, or dispose of our assets or the capital stock or assets of any subsidiary; • pay dividends, make distributions, or redeem capital stock; • change our line of business; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; and • grant liens on our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries. Our senior secured credit facility also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial condition tests at the end of each fiscal quarter. Our ability to meet these financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit facility. If the lenders accelerate amounts owing under the senior secured credit facility because of a default and we are unable to pay such amounts, the lenders have the right to foreclose on substantially all of our assets. Our debt obligations have variable rates, which makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $266.9 million of outstanding debt, including $4.0 million drawn on our revolving credit facility, which was subject to variable interest rates. Accordingly, we may experience material increases in our interest expense as a result of increases in interest rates. In January 2007, we entered into an interest rate swap, which effectively fixes the interest rate on $153.0 million of our debt until January 2010. Our annual interest expense on our remaining variable rate debt would increase by $1.1 million for each 1% increase in interest rates, assuming no revolving credit borrowings and considering the fixed rate on $153.0 million due to the interest rate swap. Disruption in our main distribution centers may prevent us from meeting customer demand and our sales and profitability may suffer as a result. We manage our product distribution through several distribution centers in the in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, and Hong Kong. A serious disruption, such as an earthquake, flood, or fire, at any of our main distribution centers could damage our inventory and could materially impair our ability to distribute our products to customers in a timely manner or at a reasonable cost. We could incur significantly higher costs and experience longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our customers during the time that it takes for us to reopen or replace a distribution center. As a result, any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may seek to raise additional capital in the future to finance our operations, and our inability to raise such capital could restrict our growth and harm our operating results. From time to time we may seek additional equity or debt financing to provide for the capital expenditures required to maintain or expand our facilities and equipment, to meet the changing needs of the consumer electronics market, to finance working capital requirements, or to make acquisitions. For instance, in 2006 we increased the size of our senior secured credit facility to fund the acquisition of Polk and our increased working capital needs associated with our increased sales levels. We cannot predict the timing or amount of any additional capital requirements at this time. If our senior secured credit facility is inadequate to provide for these requirements and additional equity or debt financing is not available on satisfactory terms, we may be unable to maintain or expand our business or to develop new business at the rate desired and our operating results may suffer. 23 Table of Contents Our executive officers and key personnel are critical to our business, and these officers and personnel may not remain with us in the future. We depend substantially on the efforts and abilities of our senior management and sales personnel, especially our chief executive officer, James E. Minarik. Our success will depend on our ability to retain our current management and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management personnel is intense and we may not be able to retain our personnel or attract additional qualified personnel. The loss of a member of senior management requires the remaining executive officers to divert immediate and substantial attention to fulfilling his or her duties and to seeking a replacement. The inability to fill vacancies in our senior executive positions on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy, which would negatively impact our results of operations. We are subject to various governmental regulations that could adversely affect our business. Like many businesses, our operations are subject to certain international, federal, state, and local regulatory requirements relating to environmental, product disposal, materials content, and health and safety matters. We could become subject to liabilities as a result of a failure to comply with applicable laws and incur substantial costs to comply with existing, new, modified, or more stringent requirements. In addition, our past, current, or future operations may give rise to claims of exposure to hazardous substances by employees or the public or to other claims or liabilities relating to environmental, product disposal, or health and safety concerns. For instance, we maintain a paint booth at our Snake Pit training facility, and the training conducted there generates various airborne particulates. Our wireless products, including our satellite radio and security and wireless headphone devices, must comply with all applicable regulations of the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC. Any failure or delay in obtaining required FCC licenses could prevent or delay new product introductions. Failure to comply with applicable FCC regulations could result in significant fines or product recalls. For example, during the second quarter of 2006, we received a letter from the FCC stating that its Office of Engineering and Technology Laboratory had tested certain satellite radios that we distribute, and had determined that the transmitters were not in compliance with either the applicable operating frequency range or the applicable emission limits. As a result, we were forced to stop shipments until the third quarter of 2006, when we received notification that the FCC approved the modifications made to the products and had determined that the radios were in compliance with applicable operating frequency range and emission limits. The use of our products is also governed by a variety of state and local ordinances that could affect the demand for our products. For instance, the passage of new noise ordinances, or stricter enforcement of current noise ordinances, could reduce the demand for our mobile audio products. Additionally, many states currently have in place laws prohibiting or restricting the running of a motor vehicle without an operator, the enforcement of which could adversely affect the demand for our hybrid and convenience products that contain remote start capabilities. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price for our common stock may continue to be volatile. Since our initial public offering in December 2005, our common stock has experienced significant price fluctuations. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall, including the following: • the gain or loss of significant customers or orders; • introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; • variations in our quarterly results; • announcements of technological innovations by us or by our competitors; • acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors; 24 Table of Contents • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • the level and quality of research analyst coverage for our common stock; • changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any research analysts that follow our stock; and • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers, and the economy as a whole. In addition, public announcements by our competitors concerning, among other things, their performance, strategy, accounting practices, or legal problems could cause the market price of our common stock to decline regardless of our actual operating performance. Our operating results may experience significant periodic and seasonal fluctuations, which could cause our results to fall short of expectations and cause our stock price to decline. The consumer electronics industry has experienced significant economic downturns at various times, characterized by diminished product demand, accelerated erosion of average selling prices, intense competition, and production overcapacity. In addition, the consumer electronics industry is cyclical in nature. We may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results, at least in part because of general industry conditions or events occurring in the general economy. In addition to the variability resulting from the cyclical nature of the consumer electronics industry, other factors may contribute to significant periodic and seasonal quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations. These factors include the following: • the timing and volume of orders relative to the capacity of our contract manufacturers; • product introductions or enhancements and market acceptance of product introductions and enhancements by us and our competitors; • evolution in the life cycles of our products; • timing of expenditures in anticipation of future orders; • product mix; and • pricing and availability of competitive products. For instance, our 2005 and 2006 revenue increases were attributable in large part to the growth of the satellite radio and home audio markets. With the downturn in the satellite radio business, we have experienced decreased revenue and adverse performance trends. If we cannot add other products to generate revenue growth our business could be adversely affected. Historically, our sales have usually been weaker in the first two quarters of each fiscal year and have, from time to time, been lower than the preceding quarter. Our products are highly consumer-oriented, and consumer buying is traditionally lower in these quarters. Sales of our products are usually highest in our fourth fiscal quarter due to increased consumer spending on electronic devices during the holiday season. Additionally, our remote start products are seasonally affected by colder winter months. The size, timing, and integration of any future acquisitions may also cause substantial fluctuations in operating results from quarter to quarter. Consequently, operating results for any quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for any subsequent quarter or for a full fiscal year. These fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Accordingly, you should not rely on the results of any past periods as an indication of our future performance. It is possible that in some future periods, our operating results may be below expectations of public market analysts or investors. If this occurs, our stock price may decline. 25 Table of Contents Our current principal shareholders have significant influence over us, and they could delay, deter, or prevent a change of control or other business combination or otherwise cause us to take action with which you might not agree. Investment funds affiliated with Trivest Partners, L.P. together beneficially own approximately 37% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, two of our directors are affiliated with Trivest Partners, L.P. As a result, Trivest Partners, L.P. has significant influence over our decision to enter into any corporate transaction and may have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of shareholders regardless of whether or not other shareholders believe that such transaction is in their own best interests. Such concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing a change of control or other business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our shareholders. The large number of shares eligible for public sale or subject to rights requiring us to register them for public sale could depress the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market and the perception that these sales could occur may depress the market price. As of December 31, 2007, we had 25,419,738 shares of common stock outstanding, all of which may be sold in the public market, subject to prior registration or qualification for an exemption from registration, including, in the case of shares held by affiliates, compliance with the volume restrictions of Rule 144. In addition, shareholders owning 12,116,680 shares are entitled to require us to register our securities owned by them for public sale. In May 2006, we filed a registration statement to register the 2,750,000 shares issuable under our incentive compensation plan. Sales of common stock pursuant to registration rights may make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. Provisions in our articles of incorporation, our bylaws, and Florida law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, discourage a takeover, and adversely affect existing shareholders. Our articles of incorporation, our bylaws, and the Florida Business Corporation Act contain provisions that may have the effect of making more difficult, delaying, or deterring attempts by others to obtain control of our company, even when these attempts may be in the best interests of shareholders. These include provisions limiting the shareholders’ powers to remove directors or take action by written consent instead of at a shareholders’ meeting. Our articles of incorporation also authorize our board of directors, without shareholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect or dilute the voting power of the holders of common stock. Florida law also imposes conditions on the voting of “control shares” and on certain business combination transactions with “interested shareholders.” These provisions and others that could be adopted in the future could deter unsolicited takeovers or delay or prevent changes in our control or management, including transactions in which shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. These provisions may also limit the ability of shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 