Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, the following are important factors which could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. Our operating results may fluctuate due to factors outside of management's control. Our future revenues and results of operations may significantly fluctuate due to a combination of factors, many of which are outside of management's control. The most notable of these factors include: •the impact of vendor consolidation on our business; •changes in or availability of vendor contracts or rebate programs; •vendor rebates based upon attaining certain growth goals; •changes in the way vendors introduce/deliver products to market; •exclusivity requirements with certain vendors that may prohibit us from distributing competing products manufactured by other vendors; •the impact of general economic trends on our business; •the recall of a significant product by one of our vendors; •extended shortage or backorder of a significant product by one of our vendors; •seasonality; •the timing and effectiveness of marketing programs or price changes offered by our vendors; •the timing of the introduction of new products and services by our vendors; •the ability to borrow on our revolving credit facility, extend the terms of our revolving credit facility or obtain alternative financing on favorable terms or at all; •the impact of tightening credit standards and/or access to credit on behalf of our customers and suppliers; •unforeseen litigation; •a disruption caused by adverse weather or other natural conditions; •inability to ship products to the customer as a result of technological or shipping disruptions; and •competition. These factors could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to reduce operating expenses quickly enough to offset any unexpected shortfall in revenues or gross profit. If we have a shortfall in revenues or gross profit without a corresponding reduction to expenses, operating results may suffer. Our operating results for any particular fiscal year or quarter may not be indicative of future operating results. You should not rely on year-to-year or quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results of operations as an indication of our future performance. 17 Table of Contents Consolidation among our vendors could be harmful to our business. On October 15, 2009, Pfizer completed its acquisition of Wyeth. Pfizer and Fort Dodge, a division of Wyeth, are our two largest vendors as measured by our revenues. In connection with this acquisition, Pfizer divested certain animal health products to Boehringer Ingelheim. Fort Dodge supplied products that accounted for approximately 11% of our revenues for fiscal year 2009. Of this amount, based on information received from the Federal Trade Commission, Pfizer and Boehringer Ingelheim, we estimate that approximately 43% of such revenues were attributable to products now owned by Pfizer and approximately 57% of such revenues were attributable to products now owned by Boehringer Ingelheim. We expect that we will continue to sell these products under the terms of the Fort Dodge contract through the end of calendar year 2009. We also expect that Pfizer will terminate the Fort Dodge contract during the fourth quarter of calendar year 2009 and we will negotiate new contracts with Pfizer and Boehringer Ingelheim for calendar year 2010. On November 3, 2009, Merck and Schering-Plough completed their merger under which Merck acquired all of the outstanding stock of Schering-Plough. Merial was a joint venture between Merck and Sanofi-Aventis, and Sanofi-Aventis acquired Merck's interest in Merial shortly before Merck and Schering-Plough completed their merger. Merck has announced that Sanofi-Aventis has an option to combine the Intervet/Schering-Plough Animal Health business with Merial to form an animal health joint venture that would be equally owned by the new Merck and Sanofi-Aventis. If the option is exercised by Sanofi-Aventis, the formation of the new animal health joint venture would be subject to approval by the relevant competition authorities. Merial and Intervet-Schering are also two of our largest vendors. We have contracts in place with both of these vendors that will remain in place through the end of calendar year 2009. We are currently negotiating new contracts with each of these companies for calendar year 2010. The surviving companies from these transactions will have high market shares with respect to certain animal health products, and they could use their increased leverage in the channel to negotiate terms with distributors that are materially worse to the distributor than the terms that we have been able to negotiate with Pfizer, Fort Dodge, Boehringer Ingelheim, Merial and Intervet-Schering individually while they were competing with each other. There also remains uncertainty related to any changes to the terms that may be included in the vendor contracts we negotiate for the upcoming year as a result of these transactions. There is also a possibility of product disruption as these companies integrate their operations which could adversely impact our financial results. Further consolidation among animal health products vendors could result in our vendors further increasing their market share, which could give vendors greater pricing power and make it easier for such vendors to sell their products directly to animal health customers, both of which could decrease our net sales and profitability. Our business, financial condition and results of operations depend upon maintaining our relationships with vendors. During the year ended September 30, 2009, we sold more than 30,000 products, of which over 15,000 were stocked in our distribution centers, sourced from over 500 vendors to over 20,000 veterinary practices. We currently do not manufacture the vast majority of our products and are dependent on these vendors for our supply of products. Our ten largest vendors supplied products that accounted for approximately 74%, 72% and 70% of our revenues for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Pfizer supplied products that accounted for approximately 24%, 23% and 21% of our revenues for our fiscal years ended September 30, 2009, 2008 18 Table of Contents and 2007, respectively. Of the Pfizer supplied products, production animal products under a livestock agreement accounted for approximately 14%, 17% and 17% of our revenues for our fiscal years ended September 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Fort Dodge supplied products that accounted for approximately 11%, 12% and 12% of our revenues for our fiscal years ended September 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Intervet-Schering, a subsidiary of Schering Plough, supplied products that accounted for approximately 11%, 9% and 8% of our revenues for our fiscal years ended September 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Merial, a subsidiary of Sanofi-Aventis, supplies the majority of their products under an agency relationship. Commission revenue generated from Merial products accounted for approximately 56%, 60% and 58% of total commission revenues for our fiscal years ended September 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our ability to sustain our gross profits has been, and will continue to be, dependent in part upon our ability to obtain favorable terms and access to new and existing products from our vendors. These terms may be subject to changes from time to time by vendors, such as changing from a "buy/sell" to an agency relationship, or from an agency to a "buy/sell" relationship which could adversely affect our revenues and operating income. The loss of one or more of our large vendors, a material reduction in their supply of products to us or material changes in the terms we obtain from them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Vendors may also choose to change the method in which products are taken to market. For example, a vendor may change our relationship from a complete distribution provider, including logistics and sales support, to only a logistics provider or only a sales support provider. Only doing one of these services would reduce our margin on any sale. A change in the method in which products are taken to market caused by any vendor could have a material adverse effect on our business. Some of our current and future vendors may decide to compete with us in the future by pursuing or increasing their efforts in direct marketing and sales of their products. These vendors could sell their products at lower prices and maintain a higher gross margin on their product sales than we can. In this event, veterinarians or animal owners may elect to purchase animal health products directly from these vendors. Increased competition from any vendor of animal health products could significantly reduce our market share and adversely impact our financial results. An adverse change in vendor rebates could negatively affect our business. The terms on which we purchase or sell products from many vendors of animal health products may entitle us to receive a rebate based on the attainment of certain growth goals. Vendors may adversely change the terms of or eliminate some or all of these rebate programs at any time without notice. Because the amount of rebates we earn is directly related to the attainment of pre-determined sales growth goals, and because the nature of the rebate programs and the amount of rebates available are determined by the vendors, there can be no assurance as to the amount of rebates that we will earn in any given year. Changes to or elimination of any rebate program initiated by our vendors may have a material effect on our gross profit and our operating results in any given quarter or year. Vendors may reduce or eliminate rebates offered under their programs, interpret the terms of their rebate programs in a way that is adverse to us or increase the growth goals or other conditions we must meet to earn rebates to levels that we cannot achieve. Additionally, factors outside of our control, such as customer preferences or vendor supply issues, can have a material impact on our ability to achieve the growth goals established by our vendors, which may reduce the amount of rebates we receive. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly, and these fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have varied significantly in the past, and may continue to do so in the future. While we accrue rebates from vendors as they are earned, our rebates have historically been highest during the quarter ended December 31, since most of our vendors' rebate programs were designed to include targets to be achieved during the calendar year. We do not expect this trend in vendor rebates to continue starting in the fourth calendar quarter of 2009 due to the change in the Pfizer livestock contract that was effective January 1, 2009. Historically, our revenues have been seasonal, with peak sales in the spring and fall months. The seasonal nature of our business is directly tied to the buying patterns of veterinarians for production animal health products used for certain medical procedures performed on production animals during the spring and fall months. These buying patterns can also be affected by vendors' and distributors' marketing programs or price increase announcements, which can cause veterinarians to purchase production animal health products earlier than those products are used. This kind of early purchasing may reduce our sales in the months these purchases would have otherwise been made. Additionally, the production animal market can be affected by volatility in commodity prices such as milk, corn, grain and feeder cattle, changes in weather patterns that allow cattle to graze for longer periods or a change in the general economy, which can shift the timing of when animals are treated and to what extent they are treated. This shift in treatment may have a significant impact on the timing of purchases. While companion animal products tend to have a different product use cycle than production animal health products, and approximately two-thirds of our revenues have been generated from sales to the companion animal market, we cannot assure you that our revenues and operating results will not continue to fluctuate on a quarter-to-quarter basis. We believe period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful as our future revenue and results of operations may vary substantially. It is also possible that in future quarters our results of operations will be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In either case, the price of our common stock could decline, possibly materially. Our market is highly competitive. Failure to compete successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market for veterinary distribution services is highly competitive, continually evolving and subject to technological change. We compete with numerous vendors and distributors based on customer relationships, service and delivery, product selection, price and e-commerce capabilities. Our primary competitors, excluding vendors, include the following: •Animal Health International, Inc. (formerly Walco International, Inc.); •Butler Animal Health Supply; •Henry Schein, Inc.; •Lextron Animal Health, Inc.; •Professional Veterinary Products, Ltd.; •Webster Veterinary Supply, a division of Patterson Companies, Inc.; and •other national, regional, local and specialty distributors. Some of our competitors may have more customers, stronger brand recognition or greater financial and other resources than we do. Most of our products are available from several sources, including 20 Table of Contents other distributors and vendors, and our customers typically have relationships with several distributors and vendors. Many of our competitors have comparable product lines, technical expertise or distribution strategies that directly compete with us. Our competitors could obtain exclusive rights to distribute certain products, eliminating our ability to distribute those products. The entry of new or additional distributors in the industry could also have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete. Additionally, some of our vendors may decide to compete with us by selling their products directly to our customers. If we do not compete successfully against these organizations, it could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Consolidation in the veterinary distribution business and veterinary practices may decrease our revenues and profitability. Consolidation in the veterinary distribution business could result in existing competitors increasing their market share, which could give them greater pricing power, decrease our revenues and profitability, and increase the competition for customers. Consolidation of the many small, privately-held veterinary practices would result in an increasing number of larger veterinary practices, which could have increased purchasing leverage and the ability to negotiate lower product costs. This could reduce our operating margins and negatively impact our revenues and profitability. Any of these developments could result in increased marketing expenses and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Exclusivity requirements and failures to continue relationships with vendors may cause us to lose access to certain products and erode our market share. We may not be able to establish or maintain relationships with key vendors in the animal health industry if we have established relationships with competitors of these key vendors. We have written agreements with approximately 40 of our vendors. Some of our agreements with vendors are for one-year periods. Upon expiration, we may not be able to renew our existing agreements on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, during the course of our negotiation of these agreements certain vendors may require us to distribute their products on an exclusive basis, which would cause us to forego distributing competing products that may also be profitable, including generic products that may gain increased market share. In this situation we are often forced to project future sales of competing products so that we can elect to distribute the product that we believe will be more profitable. Our projections may not be correct, and we may be contractually prohibited from distributing products that gain market share, including generic products, at the expense of the products that we distribute. In fact, we are currently in the process of reviewing a contract with one of our vendors for 2010 that contains such an exclusivity requirement. If we choose not to distribute this product and instead to distribute competing products, our revenues and agency commissions could change significantly. Competitors of ours could also obtain exclusive rights to market particular products, which we would be unable to market. If we lose the right to distribute products under such agreements, or are required to exclusively distribute certain products at the expense of others that may be more profitable, we may lose access to certain products and lose a competitive advantage. Potential competitors could sell products from vendors that we fail to continue with and erode our market share. 21 Table of Contents An economic downturn could materially adversely affect our business. Our business may be materially adversely affected by negative trends in the general economy that could reduce consumer discretionary spending on animal health products and reduce or eliminate sources of credit available to our customers. Levels of consumer spending have recently deteriorated significantly in the United States and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Some of the factors that could influence the levels of consumer spending include continuing increases in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, unemployment levels, healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. In addition, volatility in commodity prices such as milk, corn, grain and feeder cattle, changes in weather patterns causing cattle to graze for longer periods and changes in the general economy may adversely impact the amount spent by animal owners in the production animal market. Such volatility and/or tightening of credit available to our customers could further deteriorate the financial condition of our customers, and may ultimately lead our customers to reduce their working capital available to purchase our products. Our business ultimately depends on the ability and willingness of animal owners to pay for our products. This dependence could make us more vulnerable to any reduction in consumer confidence or disposable income than companies in other industries that are less reliant on consumer spending, such as the human health care industry, in which a large portion of payments are made by insurance programs. Additionally, any cost-cutting measures taken to offset the effects of an economic downturn could materially impact our ability to generate future revenue growth. For all of these reasons, an economic downturn could materially affect our business. Any inability of our customers to pay us for our products and services due to their deteriorating financial condition or otherwise may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We generally extend some level of credit to our customers without requiring collateral, which exposes us to credit risk. For example, milk price declines in the dairy market over the last two years have had a significant impact on dairy farmers. This has created cash-flow challenges for these farmers and, in turn, has impacted the time it takes for us to collect on outstanding accounts receivable from these customers. If customers' cash flow or operating and financial performance deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain other sources of credit, they may not be able to pay or may delay payment to us, or in some cases may return products to us. The financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail business with that customer or the customer to reduce its business with us and cancel orders. Any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for our products and/or services due to their deteriorating financial condition or otherwise may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We rely substantially on third-party vendors, and the loss of products or delays in product availability from one or more third-party vendors could substantially harm our business. We must contract for the supply of current and future products of appropriate quantity, quality and cost. These products must be available on a timely basis and be in compliance with any regulatory requirements. Failure to do so could substantially harm our business. We often purchase products from our vendors under agreements that typically have a term of one year and can be terminated on a periodic basis. There can be no assurance, however, that our vendors 22 Table of Contents will be able to meet their obligations under these agreements or that we will be able to compel them to do so. Risks of relying on vendors include: •If an existing agreement expires or a certain product line is discontinued or recalled, then we would not be able to continue to offer our customers the same breadth of products and our sales and operating results would likely suffer unless we are able to find an alternate supply of a similar product. •If market demand for our products increases suddenly, our current vendors might not be able to fulfill our commercial needs, which would require us to seek new manufacturing arrangements or find new sources of supply, and may result in substantial delays in meeting market demand. If we consistently generate more demand for a product than a given vendor is capable of handling, it could lead to large backorders and potentially lost sales to competitive products that are more readily available. •We may not be able to control or adequately monitor the quality of products we receive from our vendors. Poor quality products could damage our reputation with our customers. •Some of our third party vendors are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by regulatory authorities, including the FDA, the USDA, the EPA, the DEA and the PDMA, as well as other federal and state agencies for compliance with strictly enforced regulations. We do not have control over our vendors' compliance with these regulations and standards. Violations could potentially lead to interruptions in supply that could lead to lost sales to competitive products that are more readily available. •If a vendor is unable to obtain the necessary credit to manage their business, they may not be able to deliver their products to us. Potential problems with vendors such as those discussed above could substantially decrease sales of our products, lead to higher costs and damage our reputation with our customers. We rely upon third parties to ship products to our customers and interruptions in their operations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We use UPS as our primary delivery service for our air and ground shipments of products to our customers. If there were any significant service interruptions, there can be no assurance that we could engage alternative service providers to deliver these products in either a timely or cost-efficient manner, particularly in rural areas where many of our customers are located. Any labor disputes, slowdowns, transportation disruptions or other adverse conditions in the transportation industry experienced by UPS could impair or disrupt our ability to deliver our products to our customers on a timely basis, and could have a material adverse effect upon our customer relationships, business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, rising fuel costs may result in continued increases in shipping costs charged by UPS, or other delivery service providers, and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The loss of one or more significant customers could adversely affect our profitability. Our two largest customers, Banfield and Feeders' Advantage (a related party), accounted for approximately 11% and 5%, respectively, of our product sales for our fiscal year ended September 30, 2009, and 10% and 5%, respectively, of our product sales for our fiscal years ended September 30, 23 Table of Contents 2008 and 2007. Our ten largest customers, excluding Banfield and Feeders' Advantage, accounted for approximately 5%, 4% and 5% of our product sales for our fiscal years ended September 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if the business of these customers was lost. We cannot guarantee that we will maintain or improve our relationships with these customers or that we will continue to supply these customers at current levels. Banfield, Feeders' Advantage and other customers may seek to purchase some of the products that we currently sell directly from the vendors or from one or more of our competitors. Furthermore, our customers are not required to purchase any minimum amount of products from us. The loss of Banfield or Feeders' Advantage or deterioration in our relations with either of them could significantly affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, deterioration in the financial condition of one or more of our customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Difficulties with the integration of acquisitions or the improvement of the performance of acquired companies may impose substantial costs and delays and cause other unanticipated problems for us. Acquisitions involve a number of risks relating to our ability to integrate an acquired business into our existing operations. The process of integrating or improving the performance of the operations of an acquired business, particularly its personnel, could cause interruptions to our business. Some of the risks we face include: •the need to spend substantial operational, financial and management resources in integrating new businesses, technologies and products, and difficulties management may encounter in integrating or improving the performance of the operations, personnel or systems of the acquired business; •retention of key personnel, customers and vendors of the acquired business; •the occurrence of a material adverse effect on our existing business relationships with customers or vendors, or both, resulting from future acquisitions or business combinations could lead to a termination of or otherwise affect our relationships with such customers or vendors; •impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets; and •contingent and latent risks associated with the past operations of, and other unanticipated costs and problems arising in, an acquired business. If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of an acquired business into our operations, we could be required to undertake unanticipated changes. These changes could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, it may be difficult to manage rapid growth from our acquired companies in the future, and the future success of our acquisitions depends on our ability to implement and/or maintain: •sales and marketing programs; •customer service levels; •current and new product and service lines and vendor relationships; •technological support which equals or exceeds our competitors; •recruitment and training of new personnel; and 24 Table of Contents •operational and financial control systems. If we are not able to manage our rapid growth from our acquisitions, there is a risk our customer service quality could deteriorate which may in turn lead to decreased sales or profitability. Also, due to acquisitions the cost of our operations could increase faster than growth in our revenues, negatively impacting our profitability. Increases in over-the-counter sales of animal health products could adversely affect our business. We rely, and will continue to rely, on animal owners who purchase their animal health products directly from veterinarians, which we refer to as the ethical channel. There can be no assurance that animal owners will continue to use the ethical channel with the same frequency as they have in the past, and will not increasingly purchase animal health products from sources other than veterinarians, such as the Internet and other over-the-counter channels. Increased competition from any distributor of animal health products making use of an over-the-counter channel could significantly reduce our market share and adversely impact our financial results. If we fail to comply with or become subject to more onerous government regulations, our business could be adversely affected. The veterinary distribution industry is subject to changing political and regulatory influences. Both state and federal government agencies regulate the distribution of certain animal health products and we are subject to regulation, either directly or indirectly, by the FDA, the USDA, the EPA, the DEA and comparable state agencies. As a distributor of prescription pharmaceutical products, we are also subject to the PDMA, which provides for minimum standards, terms and conditions to be maintained for licensing as a distributor. The regulatory stance these agencies take could change. Our vendors are subject to regulation by the FDA, the USDA, the EPA, the DEA, and the PDMA, as well as other federal and state agencies, and material changes to the applicable regulations could affect our vendors' ability to manufacture certain products, which could adversely impact our product supply. In addition, some of our customers may rely, in part, on farm and agricultural subsidy programs. Changes in the regulatory positions that impact the availability of funding for such programs could have an adverse impact on our customers' financial positions, which could lead to decreased sales. We strive to maintain compliance with these and all other applicable laws and regulations. We retain a Manager of Regulatory Compliance and have engaged outside consultants as needed to assist us in meeting and complying with the various state licensure requirements to which we are subject. If we are unable to maintain or achieve compliance with these laws and regulations, however, we could be subject to substantial fines or other restrictions on our ability to provide competitive distribution services, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition. We cannot assure you that existing laws and regulations will not be revised or that new, more restrictive laws will not be adopted or become applicable to us or the products that we distribute or dispense. The federal pedigree regulations of the FDA under the PDMA require tracking human labeled prescription products through the entire distribution chain and are enforceable for distributors that do not have a written agreement with the manufacturer granting the wholesale distributor status as an "Authorized Distributor of Record." We cannot assure you that the vendors of products that may become subject to more stringent laws will not try to recover any or all increased costs of compliance from us by increasing the prices at which we purchase products from them, or, that we will be able to 25 Table of Contents recover any such increased prices from our customers. We also cannot assure you that our business and financial condition will not be materially and adversely affected by future changes in applicable laws and regulations. Loss of key management or sales representatives could harm our business. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the skills, experience and efforts of management, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. James F. Cleary, Jr. While we have not experienced problems in the past attracting and maintaining members of our management team, the loss of any or all of these individuals could adversely impact our business. We do not carry key-man life insurance on any member of management. In addition we do not have employment agreements with key members of our senior management team. We must continue to develop and retain a core group of individuals if we are to realize our goal of continued expansion and growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in the future. Also, due to the specialized nature of our products and services, generally only highly qualified and trained sales representatives have the necessary skills to market our products and provide our services. These individuals develop relationships with our customers that could be damaged if these employees are not retained. We face intense competition for the hiring of these professionals, and many professionals in the field that may otherwise be attractive candidates for us to hire may be bound by non-competition agreements with our competitors. Any failure on our part to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified professionals would damage our business. We do not generally enter into agreements that contain non-competition provisions with our employees, other than with members of our senior management team, former owners of acquired companies and certain other employees. Failure of, or security problems with, our information systems could damage our business. Our information systems are dependent on third party software, global communications providers, telephone systems and other aspects of technology and Internet infrastructure that are susceptible to failure. Though we have implemented security measures and some redundant systems, our customer satisfaction and our business could be harmed if we or our vendors experience any system delays, failures, loss of data, power outages, computer viruses, break-ins, unauthorized access by competitors or similar disruptions. We currently process all customer transactions and data at our facilities in Meridian, Idaho. Although we have safeguards for emergencies, including, without limitation, sophisticated back-up systems, the occurrence of a major catastrophic event or other system failure at any of our distribution facilities could interrupt data processing or result in the loss of stored data. This may result in the loss of customers or a reduction in demand for our services. Only some of our systems are fully redundant and although we do carry business interruption insurance, it may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur as a result of system failures. If a disruption occurs, our profitability and results of operations may suffer. The outbreak of an infectious disease within either the production animal or companion animal population could have a significant adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. An outbreak of disease affecting animals, such as foot-and-mouth disease, various forms of influenza or bovine spongiform encephalopathy, commonly referred to as "mad cow disease," could result in the widespread destruction of affected animals and consequently result in a reduction in demand for animal health products. In addition, outbreaks of these or other diseases or concerns of 26 Table of Contents such diseases could create adverse publicity that may have a material adverse effect on consumer demand for meat, dairy and poultry products, and, as a result, on our customers' demand for the products we distribute. The outbreak of a disease among the companion animal population which could cause a reduction in the demand for companion animals could also adversely affect our business. Although we have not been adversely impacted by the outbreak of a disease in the past, there can be no assurance that a future outbreak of an infectious disease will not have an adverse effect on our business. We may be subject to product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business. Our business involves a risk of product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business, for example arising from shipping mislabeled or outdated product, product recalls or disputes among competing vendors. We maintain general liability insurance with policy limits of $1.0 million per incident and $2.0 million in the aggregate, and in many cases we have indemnification rights against such claims from the manufacturers of the products we distribute. We do not maintain a separate product liability insurance policy because we do not currently manufacture the vast majority of the products that we sell. Our ability to recover under insurance or indemnification arrangements is subject to the financial viability of the insurers and manufacturers. We cannot assure you that our insurance coverage or the manufacturers' indemnity will be available or sufficient in any future cases brought against us. We may not be able to raise needed capital in the future on favorable terms or at all. We expect that our existing sources of cash, together with any funds generated from operations, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated capital needs for at least the next twelve months. However, we may require additional capital to finance our growth strategies or other activities in the future. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the costs associated with our growth and expansion. Additional financing may not be available when needed and, if such financing is available, it may not be available on terms favorable to us. Our failure to raise capital when needed could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Any borrowings on the revolving credit facility will be at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk based on market rates. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on any future variable rate indebtedness that we may incur on our revolving credit facility would increase even if the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash available for servicing our indebtedness would decrease. Our variable rate debt as of September 30, 2009 was $0.1 million (comprised of $0 revolving credit facility and $0.1 million promissory note). Our interest expense for fiscal year 2009 was approximately $0.2 million and was approximately $0.3 million for fiscal year 2008. A 1% increase in the average interest rate would not have a material impact on our operations assuming our current level of debt. However, if we had to borrow additional funds to operate our business, the change in interest rates could affect our operations. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources." 27 Table of Contents Our lenders may have suffered losses related to the weakening economy and may not be able to fund our borrowings. Our lenders, including the lenders participating in our revolving credit facility, may have suffered losses related to their lending and other financial relationships, especially because of the general weakening of the national economy and increased financial instability of many borrowers. As a result, lenders may become insolvent or tighten their lending standards, which could make it more difficult for us to borrow under our revolving credit facility or to obtain other financing on favorable terms or at all. Our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if we were unable to draw funds under our revolving credit facility because of a lender default or to obtain other cost-effective financing. 28 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 