ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements included above in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we also provide the following cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties relevant to our business. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other factors that we may not be aware of, could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results and could cause assumptions that underlie our business plans, expectations and statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to be inaccurate. We depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in volume from, any of these customers would harm our financial results. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from sales to large insurance companies and collision repair facilities that have relationships with these insurance companies. During fiscal year 2011, we derived 11.8% of our revenues from our ten largest insurance company customers. The largest three of these customers accounted for 2.3%, 1.7%, and 1.4%, respectively, of our revenues during fiscal year 2011. A loss of one or more of these customers would result in a significant decrease in our revenues, including the business generated by collision repair facilities associated with those customers. Furthermore, many of our arrangements with European customers are terminable by them on short notice or at any time. In addition, disputes with customers may lead to delays in payments to us, terminations of agreements or litigation. Additional terminations or non-renewals of customer contracts or reductions in business from our large customers would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our industry is highly competitive, and our failure to compete effectively could result in a loss of customers and market share, which could harm our revenues and operating results. The markets for our automobile insurance claims processing software and services are highly competitive. In the U.S., our principal competitors are CCC Information Services Group Inc. and Mitchell International Inc. In Europe, our principal competitors are EurotaxGlass’s Group, DAT, GmbH and GT Motive Einsa Group. We also encounter regional or country-specific competition in the markets for automobile insurance claims processing software and services and our complementary products and services. For example Experian® is our principal competitor in the United Kingdom in the vehicle validation market, car.tv is our principal competitor in Germany in the online salvage vehicle disposition market and, as a result of our acquisition of Explore, ChoicePoint is our 11 Table of Contents principal competitor in the U.S. in the automobile re-underwriting solutions market. If one or more of our competitors develop software or services that are superior to ours or are more effective in marketing their software or services, our market share could decrease, thereby reducing our revenues. In addition, if one or more of our competitors retain existing or attract new customers for which we have developed new software or services, we may not realize expected revenues from these new offerings, thereby reducing our profitability. Some of our current or future competitors may have or develop closer customer relationships, develop stronger brands, have greater access to capital, lower cost structures and/or more attractive system design and operational capabilities than we have. Consolidation within our industry could result in the formation of competitors with substantially greater financial, management or marketing resources than we have, and such competitors could utilize their substantially greater resources and economies of scale in a manner that affects our ability to compete in the relevant market or markets. As a result of consolidation, our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new technologies and customer needs, devote greater resources to promoting or selling their products and services, initiate and withstand substantial price competition, expand into new markets, hire away our key employees, change or limit access to key information and systems, take advantage of acquisition or other strategic opportunities more readily and develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly than we can. In addition, our competitors may form strategic or exclusive relationships with each other and with other companies in attempts to compete more successfully against us. These relationships may increase our competitors’ ability, relative to ours, to address customer needs with their software and service offerings, which may enable them to rapidly increase their market share. Moreover, many insurance companies have historically entered into agreements with automobile insurance claims processing service providers like us and our competitors whereby the insurance company agrees to use that provider on an exclusive or preferred basis for particular products and services and agrees to require collision repair facilities, independent assessors and other vendors to use that provider. If our competitors are more successful than we are at negotiating these exclusive or preferential arrangements, we may lose market share even in markets where we retain other competitive advantages. In addition, our insurance company customers have varying degrees of in-house development capabilities, and one or more of them have expanded and may seek to further expand their capabilities in the areas in which we operate. Many of our customers are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do and could commit significant resources to product development. Our software and services have been, and may in the future be, replicated by our insurance company customers in-house, which could result in our loss of those customers and their associated repair facilities, independent assessors and other vendors, resulting in decreased revenues and net income. The time and expense associated with switching from our competitors’ software and services to ours may limit our growth. The costs for an insurance company to switch providers of claims processing software and services can be significant and the process can sometimes take 12 to 18 months to complete. As a result, potential customers may decide that it is not worth the time and expense to begin using our software and services, even if we offer competitive and economic advantages. If we are unable to convince these customers to switch to our software and services, our ability to increase market share will be limited and could harm our revenues and operating results. Our operating results may be subject to volatility as a result of exposure to foreign currency exchange risks. We derive most of our revenues, and incur most of our costs, including a portion of our debt service costs, in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, mainly the Euro. In our historical financial statements, we translate our local currency financial results into U.S. dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period for our consolidated statement of income and certain components of stockholders’ equity or the exchange 12 Table of Contents rate at the end of that period for the consolidated balance sheet. These translations resulted in a net foreign currency translation adjustment of $83.5 million and $(64.5) million for fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively. Ongoing global economic conditions have impacted currency exchange rates. Exchange rates between most of the major foreign currencies we use to transact our business and the U.S. dollar have fluctuated significantly over the last few years and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate. The majority of our revenues and costs are denominated in Euros, Pound Sterling, Swiss francs, Canadian dollars and other foreign currencies. The following table provides the average quarterly exchange rates for the Euro and Pound Sterling since the beginning of fiscal year 2010: Period Average Euro-to-U.S. DollarExchange Rate Average PoundSterling-to-U.S. DollarExchange Rate Quarter ended September 30, 2009 $ 1.43 $ 1.64 Quarter ended December 31, 2009 1.48 1.63 Quarter ended March 31, 2010 1.39 1.56 Quarter ended June 30, 2010 1.28 1.49 Quarter ended September 30, 2010 1.29 1.55 Quarter ended December 31, 2010 1.36 1.58 Quarter ended March 31, 2011 1.37 1.60 Quarter ended June 30, 2011 1.44 1.63 During fiscal year 2011, as compared to fiscal year 2010, the movement of the U.S. dollar against most major foreign currencies in which we transact our business was mixed. Relative to the Euro, the average U.S. dollar strengthened by 2.0%, which decreased our revenues and expenses for the 2011 fiscal year relating to the Euro markets in which we transact business. In contrast, the average U.S. dollar weakened versus the Pound Sterling by 0.6%, which increased our revenues and expenses for fiscal year 2011 relating to the United Kingdom. A hypothetical 5% increase or decrease in the U.S. dollar versus other currencies in which we transact our business would have resulted in an increase or decrease, as the case may be, to our revenues of $26.9 million during fiscal year 2011. We currently do not hedge our exposure to foreign currency risks. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2011, 2010, and 2009, we recognized net foreign currency transaction gains (losses) in our consolidated statements of operations of $(10.0) million, $(5.8) million, and $1.2 million, respectively. Further fluctuations in exchange rates against the U.S. dollar could decrease our revenues and associated profits and, therefore, harm our future operating results. Current uncertainty in global economic conditions makes it particularly difficult to predict product demand, utilization and other related matters and makes it more likely that our actual results could differ materially from expectations. Our operations and performance depend on worldwide economic conditions, which have deteriorated significantly in many countries where our products and services are sold, and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. These conditions make it difficult for our customers and potential customers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and could cause our customers and potential customers to slow, reduce or refrain from spending on our products. In addition, external factors that affect our business have been and may continue to be impacted by the global economic slowdown. Examples include: • Number of Insurance Claims Made: In fiscal year 2010, the number of insurance claims made increased slightly versus fiscal year 2009. In fiscal year 2009, the number of insurance claims for vehicle damage submitted by owners to their insurance carriers declined slightly in several of our markets, including some of our large western European markets. The number of insurance claims made 13 Table of Contents can be influenced by factors such as unemployment levels, the number of miles driven, rising gasoline prices, the number of uninsured drivers, rising insurance premiums and insured opting for lower coverage or higher deductible levels, among other things. Fewer claims made can reduce the transaction-based fees that we generate. • Sales of New and Used Vehicles: According to industry sources, new vehicle sales in Advanced Markets fell in 2008, 2009 and 2010. Sales in these markets are projected to grow at a 1% compound annual growth rate through 2020. At the same time, sales in Evolving and Emerging Markets continued to grow through the period from 2008 through 2010 and are projected to grow at a 5.8% compound annual growth rate through 2020. Fewer new light vehicle sales can result in fewer insured vehicles on the road and fewer automobile accidents, which can reduce the transaction-based fees that we generate. • Used Vehicle Retail and Wholesale Values: Declines in retail and wholesale used vehicle values can impact vehicle owner and insurance carrier decisions about which damaged vehicles should be repaired and which should be declared a total loss. The lower the retail and wholesale used vehicle values, the more likely it is that a greater percentage of automobiles are declared a total loss versus a partial loss. The fewer number of vehicles that owners and insurance carriers decide to repair can reduce the transaction-based fees that we generate for partial-loss estimates, but may have a beneficial impact on the transaction-based fees that we generate for total-loss estimates. • Automobile Usage—Number of Miles Driven: Several factors can influence miles driven, including gasoline prices and economic conditions. For the first five months of calendar year 2011, cumulative miles driven in the United States declined by 1% compared to the same period in the prior year. In calendar year 2010, the number of miles driven in the United States increased compared to calendar years 2009 and 2008. In calendar year 2009, the number of miles driven in the United States and several of our large western European markets declined due to higher gasoline prices and difficult economic conditions. Fewer miles driven can result in fewer automobile accidents, which can reduce the transaction-based fees that we generate. While we believe that results from operating in certain of our markets have shown signs of economic improvement since the end of fiscal year 2010, many of our markets around the world have recently experienced volatility. Accordingly, we cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, worldwide or in particular economic markets. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for or utilization of our products and on our financial condition and operating results. We may engage in acquisitions, joint ventures, dispositions or similar transactions that could disrupt our operations, cause us to incur substantial expenses, result in dilution to our stockholders and harm our business or results of operations. Our growth is dependent upon market growth and our ability to enhance our existing products and introduce new products on a timely basis. We have addressed and will continue to address the need to introduce new products both through internal development and through acquisitions of other companies and technologies that would complement or extend our business or enhance our technological capability. In fiscal year 2010, we acquired three businesses, including our acquisition of an 85% ownership interest in AUTOonline. In fiscal year 2011, we acquired two businesses, including Explore. The acquisition of Explore is our largest acquisition to date. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Explore acquisition will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to continue to expand Explore’s products and services and integrate them with our products and services. Our management will be required to devote significant attention and resources to these efforts, which may disrupt the business of either or both of the companies and, if executed ineffectively, could preclude realization of the full benefits we expect. Failure to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the operations of Explore. In addition, the efforts required to realize 14 Table of Contents the benefits of the acquisition may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, and the diversion of management’s attention, and may cause our stock price to decline. The risks associated with the Explore acquisition and our other past or future acquisitions include: • adverse effects on existing customer or supplier relationships, such as cancellation of orders or the loss of key customers or suppliers; • difficulties in integrating or retaining key employees of the acquired company; • difficulties in integrating the operations of the acquired company, such as information technology resources, and financial and operational data; • entering geographic or product markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • difficulties in assimilating product lines or integrating technologies of the acquired company into our products; • disruptions to our operations; • diversion of our management’s attention; • potential incompatibility of business cultures; • potential dilution to existing stockholders if we issue shares of common stock or other securities as consideration in an acquisition or if we issue any such securities to finance acquisitions; • limitations on the use of net operating losses or tax benefits; • negative market perception, which could negatively affect our stock price; • the assumption of debt and other liabilities, both known and unknown; and • additional expenses associated with the amortization of intangible assets or impairment charges related to purchased intangibles and goodwill, or write-offs, if any, recorded as a result of the acquisition. Many of these factors will be outside of our control, and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy. We participate in joint ventures in some countries, and we may participate in future joint ventures. Our partners in these ventures may have interests and goals that are inconsistent with or different from ours, which could result in the joint venture taking actions that negatively impact our growth in the local market and consequently harm our business or financial condition. If we are unable to find suitable partners or if suitable partners are unwilling to enter into joint ventures with us, our growth into new geographic markets may slow, which would harm our results of operations. Additionally, we may finance future acquisitions and/or joint ventures with cash from operations, additional indebtedness and/or the issuance of additional securities, any of which may impair the operation of our business or present additional risks, such as reduced liquidity or increased interest expense. For example, we financed the purchase price for the Explore acquisition with a private offering of $450.0 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes, which resulted in a decrease of our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affected the leverage measures in our senior secured credit facility. We may also seek to restructure our business in the future by disposing of certain of our assets, which may harm our future operating results, divert significant managerial attention from our operations and/or require us to accept non-cash consideration, the market value of which may fluctuate. Failure to implement our acquisition strategy, including successfully integrating acquired businesses, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our operating results may vary widely from period to period due to the sales cycle, seasonal fluctuations and other factors. Our contracts with insurance companies generally require time-consuming authorization procedures by the customer, which can result in additional delays between when we incur development costs and when we begin generating revenues from those software or service offerings. In addition, we incur significant operating expenses while we are researching and designing new software and related services, and we typically do not receive corresponding payments in those same periods. As a result, the number of new software and service offerings that we are able to implement, successfully or otherwise, can cause significant variations in our cash flow from operations, and we may experience a decrease in our net income as we incur the expenses necessary to develop and design new software and services. Accordingly, our quarterly and annual revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period. Our business is subject to seasonal and other fluctuations. In particular, we have historically experienced higher revenues during the second quarter and third quarter versus the first quarter and fourth quarter during each fiscal year. This seasonality is caused primarily by more days of inclement weather during the second quarter and third quarter in most of our markets, which contributes to a greater number of vehicle accidents and damage during these periods. In addition, our business is subject to fluctuations caused by other factors, including the occurrence of extraordinary weather events and the timing of certain public holidays. For example, the Easter holiday occurs during the third quarter in certain fiscal years and occurs during the fourth quarter in other fiscal years, resulting in a change in the number of business days during the quarter in which the holiday occurs. We anticipate that our revenues will continue to be subject to seasonality and therefore our financial results will vary from period to period. However, actual results from operations may or may not follow these normal seasonal patterns in a given year leading to performance that is not in alignment with expectations. We also may experience variations in our earnings due to other factors beyond our control, such as: • the introduction of new software or services by our competitors; • customer acceptance of new software or services; • the volume of usage of our offerings by existing customers; • variations of vehicle accident rates due to factors such as changes in fuel prices, number of miles driven or new vehicle purchases and their impact on vehicle usage; • competitive conditions, or changes in competitive conditions, in our industry generally; or • prolonged system failures during which time customers cannot submit or process transactions. We may also incur significant or unanticipated expenses when contracts expire, are terminated or are not renewed. Any of these events could harm our financial condition and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline. Our industry is subject to rapid technological changes, and if we fail to keep pace with these changes, our market share and revenues will decline. Our industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent introductions of, and enhancements to, existing software and services, all with an underlying pressure to reduce cost. Industry changes could render our offerings less attractive or obsolete, and we may be unable to make the necessary adjustments to our offerings at a competitive cost, or at all. We also incur substantial expenses in researching, developing, designing, purchasing, licensing and marketing new software and services. The development or adaptation of these new technologies may result in unanticipated expenditures and capital costs that would not be recovered in the event that our new software or services are unsuccessful. The research, development, production and marketing of new software and services are also subject to changing market 16 Table of Contents requirements, access to and rights to use third-party data, the satisfaction of applicable regulatory requirements and customers’ approval procedures and other factors, each of which could prevent us from successfully marketing any new software and services or responding to competing technologies. The success of new software in our industry also often depends on the ability to be first to market, and our failure to be first to market with any particular software project could limit our ability to recover the development expenses associated with that project. If we cannot develop or acquire new technologies, software and services or any of our existing software or services are rendered obsolete, our revenues and income could decline and we may lose market share to our competitors, which would impact our future operations and financial results. Changes in or violations by us or our customers of applicable government regulations could reduce demand for or limit our ability to provide our software and services in those jurisdictions. Our insurance company customers are subject to extensive government regulations, mainly at the state level in the U.S. and at the country level in our non-U.S. markets. Some of these regulations relate directly to our software and services, including regulations governing the use of total loss and estimating software. If our insurance company customers fail to comply with new or existing insurance regulations, including those applicable to our software and services, they could lose their certifications to provide insurance and/or reduce their usage of our software and services, either of which would reduce our revenues. Also, we are subject to direct regulation in some markets, and our failure to comply with these regulations could significantly reduce our revenues or subject us to government sanctions. In addition, future regulations could force us to implement costly changes to our software and/or databases or have the effect of prohibiting or rendering less valuable one or more of our offerings. Moreover, some states in the U.S. have changed and are contemplating changes to their regulations to permit insurance companies to use book valuations or public source valuations for total loss calculations, making our total loss software potentially less valuable to insurance companies in those states. Some states have adopted total loss regulations, that, among other things, require insurers use a methodology deemed acceptable to the respective government agency. We submit our methodology to such agencies, and if they do not approve our methodology, we will not be able to perform total loss valuations in their respective states. Other states are considering legislation that would limit the data that our software can provide to our insurance company customers. In the event that demand for or our ability to provide our software and services decreases in particular jurisdictions due to regulatory changes, our revenues and margins may decrease. There is momentum to create a U.S. federal government oversight mechanism for the insurance industry. There is also legislation under consideration by the U.S. legislature relating to the vehicle repair industry. Federal regulatory oversight of or legislation relating to the insurance industry in the U.S. could result in a broader impact on our business versus similar oversight or legislation at the U.S. state level. We require a significant amount of cash to service our indebtedness, which reduces the cash available to finance our organic growth, make strategic acquisitions and enter into alliances and joint ventures; our amended and restated senior credit facility contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in certain activities. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of June 30, 2011, our indebtedness, including current maturities, was $1.0 billion, of which $576.4 million matures in May 2014 and $450.0 million matures in June 2018, and we have the ability to borrow an additional $50.0 million under our amended and restated senior credit facility. During fiscal year 2011, our aggregate interest expense was $31.1 million and cash paid for interest was $30.9 million. As a result of our issuance of $450 million in senior unsecured notes to finance the purchase price of the Explore acquisition, we expect our interest expense and cash interest expense to significantly increase in future periods. 17 Table of Contents Our indebtedness could: • make us more vulnerable to unfavorable economic conditions and reduce our revenues; • make it more difficult to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; • require us to dedicate or reserve a large portion of our cash flow from operations for making payments on our indebtedness which would prevent us from using it for other purposes including software development; • make us susceptible to fluctuations in market interest rates that affect the cost of our borrowings to the extent that our variable rate debt is not covered by interest rate derivative agreements; and • make it more difficult to pursue strategic acquisitions, joint ventures, alliances and collaborations. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors. Some of these factors are beyond our control. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness and to meet our other obligations and commitments, we may be required to refinance our debt or to dispose of assets to obtain funds for such purpose. We cannot assure you that debt refinancings or asset dispositions could be completed on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, if at all, or would be permitted by the terms of our debt instruments. In connection with the acquisition of Explore in June 2011, we completed a private offering of $450.0 million aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes (the “Senior Notes”). The Senior Notes, in addition to our amended and restated senior credit facility, contains covenants that restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to make certain distributions with respect to our capital stock, prepay other debt, encumber our assets, incur additional indebtedness, make capital expenditures above specified levels, engage in business combinations, redeem shares in our operating subsidiaries held by noncontrolling owners or undertake various other corporate activities. These covenants may also require us also to maintain certain specified financial ratios, including those relating to total leverage and interest coverage. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in the acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness under the amended and restated senior credit facility. If acceleration occurs, we would not be able to repay our debt and it is unlikely that we would be able to borrow sufficient additional funds to refinance our debt. Even if new financing is made available to us, it may not be available on acceptable or reasonable terms. An acceleration of our indebtedness would impair our ability to operate as a going concern. Pursuant to agreements entered into prior to the CSG Acquisition, the noncontrolling stockholders of certain of our majority-owned subsidiaries have the right to require us to redeem their shares at the then fair market value. For financial statement reporting purposes, the estimated fair market value of these redeemable noncontrolling interests was $71.6 million at June 30, 2011. During fiscal year 2011, one of the noncontrolling stockholders exercised its right to require us to redeem their shares. Accordingly, in March 2011, we acquired an additional 15% ownership interest in our Audatex Espana majority-owned subsidiary for a cash payment of €9.3 million ($13.1 million). We were not required to obtain a waiver under our senior secured credit facility for the purchase of these shares. We are active in almost 60 countries, where we are subject to country-specific risks that could adversely impact our business and results of operations. During fiscal year 2011, we generated approximately 79% of our revenues outside the U.S. and we expect revenues from non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a majority of our total revenues. Business and operations in individual countries are subject to changes in local government regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, taxation, currency exchange controls and repatriation of earnings. Our results are also subject to the difficulties of coordinating our activities across almost 60 different 18 Table of Contents countries. Furthermore, our business strategy includes expansion of our operations into new and developing markets, which will require even greater international coordination, expose us to additional local government regulations and involve markets in which we do not have experience or established operations. In addition, our operations in each country are vulnerable to changes in socio-economic conditions and monetary and fiscal policies, intellectual property protection disputes, the settlement of legal disputes through foreign legal systems, the collection of receivables through foreign legal systems, exposure to possible expropriation or other governmental actions, unsettled political conditions, possible terrorist attacks and pandemic disease. These and other factors may harm our operations in those countries and therefore our business and results of operations. We have a large amount of goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of acquisitions. Our earnings will be harmed if we suffer an impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets. We have a large amount of goodwill and other intangible assets and are required to perform an annual, or in certain situations a more frequent, assessment for possible impairment for accounting purposes. At June 30, 2011, we had goodwill and other intangible assets of $1.5 billion, or approximately 68% of our total assets. If we do not achieve our planned operating results or other factors impair these assets, we may be required to incur a non-cash impairment charge. Any impairment charges in the future will adversely affect our results of operations. We may incur significant restructuring and severance charges in future periods, which would harm our operating results and cash position or increase debt. We incurred restructuring charges of $7.1 million, $5.9 million, and $4.0 million in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These charges consist primarily of termination benefits paid or to be paid to employees, lease obligations associated with vacated facilities and other costs incurred related to our restructuring initiatives. As of June 30, 2011, our remaining restructuring and severance obligations associated with these restructuring initiatives were $7.5 million. We regularly evaluate our existing operations and capacity, and we expect to incur additional restructuring charges as a result of future personnel reductions, related restructuring, and productivity and technology enhancements, which could exceed the levels of our historical charges. In addition, we may incur certain unforeseen costs as existing or future restructuring activities are implemented. Any of these potential charges could harm our operating results and significantly reduce our cash position. Our software and services rely on information generated by third parties and any interruption of our access to such information could materially harm our operating results. We believe that our success depends significantly on our ability to provide our customers access to data from many different sources. For example, a substantial portion of the data used in our repair estimating software is derived from parts and repair data provided by, among others, original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, aftermarket parts suppliers, data aggregators, automobile dealerships, government organizations and vehicle repair facilities. We obtain much of our data about vehicle parts and components and collision repair labor and costs through license agreements with OEMs, automobile dealers, and other providers. EurotaxGlass’s Group, one of our primary competitors in Europe, provides us with valuation and paint data for use in our European markets pursuant to a similar arrangement, and Mitchell International, one of our primary competitors in the U.S., provides us with vehicle glass data for use in our U.S. markets pursuant to a similar arrangement. In some cases, the data included in our products and services is licensed from sole-source suppliers. Many of the license agreements through which we obtain data are for terms of one year and may be terminated without cost to the provider on short notice. If one or more of our licenses are terminated or if we are unable to renew one or more of these licenses on favorable terms or at all, we may be unable to access the information (in the case of information licensed from sole-service suppliers) or unable to access alternative data sources that would provide comparable information 19 Table of Contents without incurring substantial additional costs. Some OEM sources have indicated to us that they intend to materially increase the licensing costs for their data. While we do not believe that our access to most individual sources of data is material to our operations, prolonged industry-wide price increases or reductions in data availability could make receiving certain data more difficult and could result in significant cost increases, which would materially harm our operating results. System failures, delays and other problems could harm our reputation and business, cause us to lose customers and expose us to customer liability. Our success depends on our ability to provide accurate, consistent and reliable services and information to our customers on a timely basis. Our operations could be interrupted by any damage to or failure of: • our computer software or hardware or our customers’ or third-party service providers’ computer software or hardware; • our networks, our customers’ networks or our third-party service providers’ networks; and • our connections to and outsourced service arrangements with third parties, such as Acxiom, which hosts data and applications for us and our customers. Our systems and operations are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • power loss or other telecommunications failures; • earthquakes, fires, floods, hurricanes and other natural disasters; • computer viruses or software defects; • physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events; and • errors by our employees or third-party service providers. As part of our ongoing process improvements efforts, we have and will continue to migrate product and system platforms to next generation platforms and we may increase data and applications that we host ourselves, and the risks noted above will be exacerbated by these efforts. Because many of our services play a mission-critical role for our customers, any damage to or failure of the infrastructure we rely on (even if temporary), including those of our customers and vendors, could disrupt our ability to deliver information to and provide services for our customers in a timely manner, which could harm our reputation and result in the loss of current and/or potential customers or reduced business from current customers. In addition, we generally indemnify our customers to a limited extent for damages they sustain related to the unavailability of, or errors in, the software and services we provide; therefore, a significant interruption of, or errors in, our software and services could expose us to significant customer liability. Security failures or breaches could result in lost revenues, litigation claims and/or harm to our reputation. Our databases contain confidential data and information protected by law or regulation (including the European Union Privacy Directive and the U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act) relating to our customers, policyholders, other industry participants and employees. Security failures or breaches, including those involving connectivity to the Internet, and the trend toward broad consumer and general public notification of unauthorized access to confidential data or protected information, could significantly harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our databases could be vulnerable to physical system or network break-ins or other inappropriate access, which could result in claims against us and/or harm our reputation. In addition, potential competitors may obtain our data illegally and use it to provide services that are competitive to ours. 20 Table of Contents Privacy concerns could require us to exclude data from our software and services, which may reduce the value of our offerings to our customers, damage our reputation and deter current and potential users from using our software and services. In the European Union and other jurisdictions, there are significant restrictions on the use of personal data. Our violations of these laws could harm our business. In addition, these restrictions may place limits on the information that we can collect from and provide to our customers. Furthermore, concerns about our collection, use or sharing of automobile insurance claims information, moving violation information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and operating results. We depend on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace. If we lose the services of these individuals, or are unable to attract new talent, our business will be adversely affected. We depend upon the ability and experience of our key personnel, who have substantial experience with our operations, the rapidly changing automobile insurance claims processing industry and the markets in which we offer our software and services. The loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or key employees, particularly our Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President, Tony Aquila, could harm our business and operations. On July 7, 2010, Renato Giger was appointed as our Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Assistant Secretary. Our failure to successfully integrate Mr. Giger into his role as our Chief Financial Officer could interrupt or harm our business and operations. Our success depends on our ability to continue to attract, manage and retain other qualified management, sales and technical personnel as we grow. We may not be able to continue to attract or retain such personnel in the future. We are subject to periodic changes in the amount of our income tax provision (benefit) and these changes could adversely affect our operating results; we may not be able to utilize all of our tax benefits before they expire. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by our mix of earnings in countries with high versus low tax rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; upon the distribution of earnings from our foreign subsidiaries in the form of dividends or otherwise; by the outcomes of examinations, audits or disputes by or with relevant tax authorities, or by changes in tax laws and regulations. There have been several U.S. domestic and international laws recently enacted which could impact our current or future effective tax rate and we are in the process of evaluating this impact. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attributes prescribed in ASC Topic No. 740-10, Income Taxes. In addition, ASC Topic No. 740-10 applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. The structure of the Explore acquisition is expected to result in a 15-year tax benefit to Solera with an estimated present value of approximately $120 million on $515 million of tax deductible intangible assets and goodwill. Our ability to utilize these expected tax benefits will depend on a number of factors, including U.S. corporate income tax rates and our profitability. Many of the factors are outside of our control and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. As a result, we can provide no assurances that we will realize all of these expected tax benefits or of the timing of such benefits. At this time, we believe it is more-likely-than-not that the tax benefits will be utilized in relation to our projected earnings. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to develop and market new software and services and to generate revenues at levels sufficient to cover ongoing expenses or possible acquisition or similar transactions. If we need to raise additional capital, equity or debt financing may not be 21 Table of Contents available at all or may be available only on terms that are not favorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our stockholders could result, and in any case such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to our outstanding common stock. In the case of debt financings, we may have to grant additional security interests in our assets to lenders and agree to restrictive business and operating covenants. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, we may be unable to support future growth or operating requirements and, accordingly, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Our business depends on our brands, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brands, our business and operating results could be harmed. We believe that the brand identity we have developed and acquired has significantly contributed to the success of our business. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing our brands, such as Audatex, ABZ, Hollander, Informex, Sidexa, HPI, AUTOonline, Market Scan, IMS and Explore, are critical to the expansion of our software and services to new customers in both existing and new markets. Maintaining and enhancing our brands may require us to make substantial investments and these investments may not be successful. If we fail to promote and maintain our brands or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business, operating results and financial condition will be harmed. We anticipate that, as our markets become increasingly competitive, maintaining and enhancing our brands may become increasingly difficult and expensive. Maintaining and enhancing our brands will depend largely on our ability to be a technology innovator, to continue to provide high quality software and services and protect and defend our brand names and trademarks, which we may not do successfully. To date, we have not engaged in extensive direct brand promotion activities, and we may not successfully implement brand enhancement efforts in the future. Third parties may claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights, and we could be prevented from selling our software or suffer significant litigation expense even if these claims have no merit. Our competitive position is driven in part by our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Third parties, however, may claim that our software, products or technology, including claims data or other data, which we obtain from other parties, are infringing or otherwise violating their intellectual property rights. We may also develop software, products or technology, unaware of pending patent applications of others, which software products or technology may infringe a third party patent once that patent is issued. Any claims of intellectual property infringement or other violation, even claims without merit, could be costly and time-consuming to defend and could divert our management and key personnel from operating our business. In addition, if any third party has a meritorious or successful claim that we are infringing or violating its intellectual property rights, we may be forced to change our software or enter into licensing arrangements with third parties, which may be costly or impractical. These claims may also require us to stop selling our software and/or services as currently designed, which could harm our competitive position. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions that prevent the further development and sale of certain of our software or services and may result in a material loss in revenue. Currently, one of our trademarks is subject to a nullification proceeding in front of the Brazil trademark authority. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property and property rights, either without incurring significant costs or at all, which would harm our business. We rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyrights, know-how, trademarks, patents, license agreements and contractual provisions, as well as internal procedures, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. The steps we have taken and will take to protect our intellectual property rights may not deter infringement, duplication, misappropriation or violation of our intellectual property by third parties. In addition, any of the intellectual property we own or license from third parties may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or 22 Table of Contents rendered unenforceable, or may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful information. Furthermore, because of the differences in foreign patent, trademark and other laws concerning proprietary rights, our software and other intellectual property rights may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they would in the U.S., if at all. We may be unable to protect our rights in trade secrets and unpatented proprietary technology in these countries. We may also be unable to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge, trade secrets or other proprietary information by consultants, vendors, former employees or current employees, despite the existence of nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, intellectual property assignments and other contractual restrictions. It is also possible that others will independently develop the technology that is the same or similar to ours. If our trade secrets and other proprietary information become known or we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property, we may not receive any return on the resources expended to create the intellectual property or generate any competitive advantage based on it. We rely on our brands to distinguish our products and services from the products and services of our competitors, and have registered or applied to register trademarks covering many of these brands. We cannot assure you that our trademark applications will be approved. Third parties may also oppose our trademark applications, or otherwise challenge our use of the trademarks. In the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our products and services, which could result in loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources advertising and marketing new brands. Third parties, including competitors, may infringe our intellectual property right and we may not have adequate resources to enforce our intellectual property rights. Pursuing infringers of our intellectual property could result in significant monetary costs and diversion of management resources, and any failure to pursue or successfully litigate claims against infringers or otherwise enforce our intellectual property rights could result in competitors using our technology and offering similar products and services, potentially resulting in loss of our competitive advantage and decreased revenues. Currently, we believe that one or more of our customers in our EMEA segment may be infringing our intellectual property by making and distributing unauthorized copies of our software. We have also filed a trademark revocation application with the European Union trademark authority seeking revocation of a registered trademark held by a company in the United Kingdom that is similar to one of the trademarks we use. Enforcement of our intellectual property rights may be difficult and may require considerable resources. Current or future litigation could have a material adverse impact on us. We have been and continue to be involved in legal proceedings, claims and other litigation that arise in the ordinary course of business. For example, we have been involved in disputes with collision repair facilities, acting individually and as a group in some situations that claim that we have colluded with our insurance company customers to depress the repair time estimates generated by our repair estimating software. In addition, we are currently one of the defendants in a putative class action lawsuit alleging that we have colluded with our insurance company customers to cause the estimates of vehicle fair market value generated by our total loss estimation software to be unfairly low. Furthermore, we are also subject to assertions by our customers and strategic partners that we have not complied with the terms of our agreements with them or that the agreements are not enforceable against them, some of which are the subject of pending litigation and any of which could in the future lead to arbitration or litigation. While we do not expect the outcome of any such pending or threatened litigation to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, litigation is unpredictable and excessive verdicts, both in the form of monetary damages and injunction, could occur. In the future, we could incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could harm our financial position and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents We began paying dividends in fiscal year 2010 and we may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock and restricted stock units in the future; as a result, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment may be if the price of our common stock appreciates. We began paying quarterly cash dividends of $0.0625 per share outstanding of common stock and per outstanding restricted stock unit to stockholders and restricted stock unit holders of record in the quarter ended September 30, 2009. In fiscal year 2011, we paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.075 per share outstanding of common stock and per outstanding restricted stock unit to stockholders and restricted stock unit holders of record. We also issued quarterly stock dividend equivalents of $0.075 per outstanding restricted stock unit granted to certain of our executive officers during fiscal year 2011 in lieu of the cash dividend, which dividend equivalent will be paid to the restricted stock unit holders as the restricted stock unit vests. On August 15, 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors approved the payment of a cash dividend of $0.10 per share of outstanding common stock and per outstanding restricted stock unit. The Board of Directors also approved a quarterly stock dividend equivalent of $0.10 per outstanding restricted stock unit granted to certain of our executive officers during fiscal years 2011 and 2012, in lieu of the cash dividend, which dividend equivalent will be paid to the restricted stock unit holders as the restricted stock unit vests. The dividends are payable on September 20, 2011 to stockholders and restricted stock unit holders of record at the close of business on September 8, 2011. Any determination to pay dividends in future periods will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors. Our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock and restricted stock units in future periods may be limited by restrictive covenants under our amended and restated senior credit facility and the indenture for the Senior Notes. As a result, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in us could be if the market price of our common stock appreciates and you sell your shares at a profit. We cannot assure you that the market price for our common stock will ever exceed the price that you pay. Requirements associated with being a public company increase our costs significantly, as well as divert significant company resources and management attention. Prior to our initial public offering in May 2007, we were not subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, or the other rules and regulations of the SEC or any securities exchange relating to public companies. We continue to work with our legal, independent accounting and financial advisors to identify those areas in which changes should be made to our financial and management control systems to manage our growth and our obligations as a public company. These areas include corporate governance, corporate control, internal audit, disclosure controls and procedures and financial reporting and accounting systems. We have made, and will continue to make, changes in these and other areas. In addition, we are taking steps to address new U.S. federal legislation relating to corporate governance matters and are monitoring other proposed and recently-enacted U.S. federal and state legislation relating to corporate governance and other regulatory matters and how the legislation could affect our obligations as a public company. The expenses that are required as a result of being a public company are and will likely continue to be material. Compliance with the various reporting and other requirements applicable to public companies also require considerable time and attention of management. In addition, any changes we make may not be sufficient to allow us to satisfy our obligations as a public company on a timely basis. In addition, being a public company could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. 24 Table of Contents Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may have the effect of delaying, discouraging or preventing a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders may receive a premium for their shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our board of directors. These provisions include: • authorization of the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without the need for action by stockholders; • the removal of directors only by the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of the shares of our capital stock entitled to vote; • any vacancy on the board of directors, however occurring, including a vacancy resulting from an enlargement of the board, may only be filled by vote of the directors then in office; • inability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders and limited ability of stockholders to take action by written consent; and • advance notice requirements for board nominations and proposing matters to be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. We are monitoring proposed U.S. federal and state legislation relating to stockholder rights and related regulatory matters and how the legislation could affect, among other things, the nomination and election of directors and our charter documents. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 