Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a changing environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could materially affect our operations. The risks, uncertainties and other factors set forth below may cause our actual results, performances or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. If any of these risks or events occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. The risk factors set forth below are not exhaustive and are not the only risks that may affect our business. Our business could also be affected by additional risks not currently known to us or described below. We may amend or supplement the risk factors described below from time to time in other reports we file with the SEC in the future. Risks Related To Our Business We face intense competition and if we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. The consumer market for private label tissue products is highly competitive. Many of our competitors have greater financial, managerial, sales and marketing and capital resources than we do, 15 Table of Contents which may allow them to respond more quickly to new opportunities or changes in customer requirements. These competitors may also be larger in size or scope than us, which may allow them to achieve greater economies of scale or allow them to better withstand periods of declining prices and adverse operating conditions. Our ability to successfully compete depends upon a variety of factors, including: •aggressive pricing by competitors, which may force us to decrease prices in order to maintain market share; •our ability to improve plant efficiencies and operating rates and lower manufacturing costs; •the availability, quality and cost of labor and raw materials, particularly recycled fiber; and •the cost of energy. Our paper products are commodity products, and if we do not maintain competitive prices, we may lose significant market share. Our ability to keep our prices at competitive levels depends in large part on our ability to control our costs. In addition, consolidation among retailers in the discount retail channel may put additional pressure on us to reduce our prices in order to maintain market share. If we are unable to effectively adjust our cost structure to address such increased competitive pressures, our sales level and profitability could be harmed and our operations could be materially adversely affected. A substantial percentage of our revenues are attributable to four large customers, any or all of which may decrease or cease purchases at any time. Our largest customer, Dollar General, accounted for 52% of our converted product revenue in 2013. Family Dollar, HEB and Wal-Mart accounted for approximately 11%, 9% and 9%, respectively, of our converted product revenue in 2013. We expect that sales to a limited number of customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Sales to these customers are made pursuant to purchase orders and not supply agreements. We may not be able to keep our key customers, or these customers may cancel purchase orders or reschedule or decrease their level of purchases from us. Any substantial decrease or delay in sales to one or more of our key customers would harm our sales and financial results. In particular, the loss of sales to one or more distribution centers would result in a sudden and significant decrease in our sales. If sales to current key customers cease or are reduced, we may not obtain sufficient orders from other customers necessary to offset any such losses or reductions. We primarily use pre-consumer solid bleached sulfate paper, or SBS paper, to produce parent rolls and any disruption in our supply or increase in the cost of pre-consumer SBS paper could disrupt our production and harm our ability to produce tissue at competitive prices. We do not produce any of the fiber we use to produce our parent rolls. We depend heavily on access to sufficient, reasonably priced quantities of fiber to manufacture our tissue products. Our paper mill is configured to convert recycled fiber, specifically SBS paper, and virgin kraft fiber into paper pulp for use in our paper production lines. In 2013, we purchased approximately 69,000 tons of SBS paper at a total cost of $19.1 million compared to 68,000 tons of SBS paper at a total cost of $17.6 million in 2012. Prices for SBS paper have fluctuated significantly in the past and will likely continue to fluctuate significantly in the future, principally due to market imbalances between supply and demand. In addition, the market price of SBS fiber can also be influenced by market swings in the price of virgin pulp and other fiber grades. If either the available supply of SBS paper diminishes or the demand for SBS paper increases, it could substantially increase the cost of SBS paper, require us to purchase alternate fiber grades at increased costs, or cause a production slow-down or stoppage until we are able to identify new sources of SBS paper or reconfigure our pulping plant to process other 16 Table of Contents available forms of recycled fiber or other sources of paper fiber. We could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations should the price or supply of SBS paper be disrupted. Further, we currently obtain all of our recycled fiber from a single supplier, Dixie Pulp and Paper, Inc. ("Dixie"). If our relationship with Dixie is altered or terminated for any reason, we will have to seek alternative channels to obtain our recycled fiber, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to make arrangements that adequately meet our needs or on reasonable terms. Increased competition in our region may affect our business. In recent years, our competitors have added plants in the region in which we primarily focus our sales efforts. For example, in 2009, Pacific Paper added a new converting plant in Memphis, Tennessee. In 2010, Clearwater Paper Corporation, via its acquisition of Cellu Tissue, started production from a new converting plant in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. Both plants are in our focused 500-mile sales area. The increased presence of competition in our focused region may reduce some of our competitive cost advantage which could result in the loss of business or force us to reduce prices, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Changes in the policies of our retail trade customers and increasing dependence on key retailers in developed markets may adversely affect our business. Our products are sold in a highly competitive marketplace, which is experiencing increased concentration and the growing presence of large format retailers and discounters. With the consolidation of retail trade, especially in developed markets, we are increasingly dependent on key retailers, and some of these retailers, including the large format retailers, may have greater bargaining power than we do. They may use this leverage to demand higher trade discounts or allowances which could lead to reduced profitability. We may also be negatively affected by changes in the policies of retail trade customers, such as inventory de-stocking, limitations on access to shelf space, and delisting of our products. If we lose a significant customer or if sales of our products to a significant customer materially decrease, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Excess supply in the markets may reduce the prices we are able to charge for our products. New paper machines or new converting equipment may be built or idle machines may be activated by other paper companies, which would add more capacity to the value and mid/premium tier tissue markets. Increased production capacity could cause an oversupply resulting in lower market prices for our products and increased competition, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The availability of and prices for energy will significantly impact our business. The production of our products requires a significant amount of energy and we rely primarily on natural gas and electric energy for our energy needs. The prices of these inputs are subject to change based on many factors that are beyond our control, such as worldwide supply and demand and government regulation. In particular, natural gas prices are highly volatile. Prior to April 2009, all of the natural gas and electricity necessary to produce our paper products was purchased on the open market. Beginning in April 2009 and continuing through December 2016, approximately 60% to 70% of our natural gas requirements were covered by a fixed price contract, as described above in Item 1—Business, Raw Materials and Energy. The remainder of our requirements through December 2016 are expected to be purchased on the open market. Our average price per MMBTU decreased to $4.86 in 2013 from $5.28 in 2012 and $6.42 in 2011. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we consumed 549,000 MMBTU of natural gas at a total cost of $2.6 million and 57.5 million kilowatt hours of 17 Table of Contents electricity at a total cost of $3.2 million. If our energy costs increase, our cost of sales will increase, and our operating results may be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, we may not be able to pass increased energy costs on to our customers if the market does not allow us to raise the prices of our finished products. If price adjustments significantly trail the increase in energy costs or if we cannot effectively hedge against these costs, our operating results may be materially adversely affected. Failure to purchase the contracted quantity of natural gas may result in financial exposure. As discussed above in Item 1—Business, Raw Materials and Energy, we have entered into a fixed price contract to purchase 60% to 70% of our natural gas requirements, or 334,000 to approximately 380,000 MMBTUs per year, through December 2016, with the remainder purchased on the open market. A significant interruption in our parent roll production due to tornado, fire or other natural disaster, adverse market conditions or mechanical failure could reduce our natural gas requirements to a level below that of our contracted amount. If we are unable to purchase the contracted amounts and the market price at that time is less than the contracted price, we would be obligated under the terms of our agreement to reimburse an amount equal to the difference between the contracted amount and the amount actually purchased multiplied by the difference between our contract price and current spot price. Our exposure to variable interest rates may affect our financial health. Debt incurred under our existing revolving credit and term loan agreements accrues interest at a variable rate. Specifically, our interest is calculated on LIBOR plus an interest rate margin which is calculated quarterly. As of December 31, 2013, our weighted average bank debt interest rate was 1.99%, compared to 2.05% at December 31, 2012. Any increase in the interest rates on our debt would result in a higher interest expense which would require us to dedicate more of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our debt and reduce funds available to us for our operations and future business opportunities which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For more information on our liquidity, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources." We depend on our management team to operate the Company and execute our business plan. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management staff, in particular Jeffrey Schoen, our Chief Executive Officer, and Keith Schroeder, our Chief Financial Officer. We have entered into employment agreements with Jeffrey Schoen and Keith Schroeder. Mr. Schoen's employment is "at will" and, subject to certain conditions (such as the potential obligation to pay severance benefits), may be terminated by either party at any time, for any reason, with or without notice. Mr. Schroeder's employment agreement expired on December 31, 2011, but includes automatic one-year extensions unless either party provides notice of termination. The loss of either of our executive officers or our inability to attract and retain other qualified personnel could harm our business and our ability to compete. Labor interruptions would adversely affect our business. All of our hourly paid employees are represented by the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial & Service Workers International Union. The collective bargaining agreement with Local 5-930, which represents the paper mill workers, will expire at the beginning of February 2015, and the collective bargaining agreement with Local 5-1480, which represents the converting facility workers, will expire in June 2016. Negotiations of new collective bargaining agreements may result in significant increases in the cost of labor or could break down and result in a strike or other disruption of our operations. If any of the preceding were to occur, it could impair our ability to manufacture our products and result in increased costs and/or decreased operating 18 Table of Contents results. In addition, some of our key customers and suppliers are also unionized. Disruption in their labor relations could also have an adverse effect on our business. Our manufacturing operations may experience shutdowns due to unforeseen operational problems or maintenance outages which may cause significant lost production which would adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. We currently manufacture and process our paper products from facilities located in a single location in Pryor, Oklahoma. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to our facilities due to tornado, fire or any other calamity could damage our capital equipment or supporting infrastructure and materially impair our ability to manufacture and process paper products. Even a short-term disruption in our production output could damage relations with our customers, causing them to reduce or eliminate the amount of finished products they purchase from us. Any such disruption could result in lost revenues, increased costs and reduced profits. Although we have announced a project to replace two of our older paper machines, three of our current paper machines are approximately 50 years old. Unexpected production disruptions could cause us to shut down our paper mill or our converting operation, or any part thereof. Those disruptions could occur due to any number of circumstances, including shortages of raw materials, disruptions in the availability of transportation, labor disputes and mechanical or process failures. If any part of our facilities is shut down, it may experience a prolonged start-up period, regardless of the reason for the shutdown. Those start-up periods could range from several days to several months, depending on the reason for the shutdown and other factors. The shutdown of our facilities for a substantial period of time for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. In connection with the strategic project to replace two existing paper machines with a new machine, as announced in November 2013, we expect to begin decommissioning these two existing machines in the fourth quarter of 2014. Significant delays in starting up the new paper machine once these existing machines are dismantled may require us to purchase a substantial amount of parent rolls in the open market, which costs significantly more than producing the rolls in our mill, or may result in a short-term disruption in our ability to provide products to customers. Our operations require substantial capital, and we may not have adequate capital resources to provide for all of our cash requirements. Our operations require substantial capital. Expansion or replacement of existing facilities or equipment may require substantial capital expenditures. For example, in 2010, we built a new finished goods warehouse and installed a new converting line which cost approximately $27.0 million. In 2009 and 2010, under new environmental standards we were required to build a water treatment facility costing approximately $7.0 million to reduce BOD and TSS from our discharge water. In late 2013, we announced plans to invest $30.4 million to build a new paper machine and upgrade one of our converting lines during 2014 and 2015. If our capital resources are inadequate to provide for our operating needs, capital expenditures and other cash requirements, this shortfall could have a material adverse effect on our business and liquidity. Our business is subject to governmental regulations and any imposition of new regulations or failure to comply with existing regulations could involve significant additional expense. Our operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations promulgated by federal, state and local governments. These laws and regulations impose stringent standards on us regarding, among other things, air emissions, water discharges, use and handling of hazardous materials, use, handling and disposal of waste, and remediation of environmental contamination. Any failure to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations or permit 19 Table of Contents requirements may result in civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions. These may include regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, installing pollution control equipment or remedial actions, any of which could involve significant expenditures. Future development of such laws and regulations may require capital expenditures to ensure compliance. We may discover currently unknown environmental problems or conditions in relation to our past or present operations, or we may face unforeseen environmental liabilities in the future. These conditions and liabilities may require site remediation or other costs to maintain compliance or correct violations of environmental laws and regulations; or result in governmental or private claims for damage to person, property or the environment, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be subject to strict liability and, under specific circumstances, joint and several liabilities for the investigation and remediation of the contamination of soil, surface and ground water, including contamination caused by other parties, at properties that we own or operate and at properties where we or our predecessors arranged for the disposal of regulated materials. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and, as a result, our business could be harmed and current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in us, which could cause our stock price to fall. We have completed an evaluation of our internal control systems to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting in compliance with the management assessment and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In our report under Section 404, which is included in Item 9A of this report, we have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. A material weakness or deficiency in internal control over financial reporting could materially affect our reported financial results and the market price of our stock could significantly decline. Additionally, adverse publicity related to the disclosure of a material weakness or deficiency in internal controls could have a negative effect on our reputation, business and stock price. Although management's assessment and auditor's attestation may provide some level of comfort to the investing public, even the best designed and executed systems of internal controls can only provide reasonable assurance against misreported results and the prevention of fraud. The parent roll market is a commodity market and subject to fluctuations in demand and pricing. Our parent roll production has historically exceeded the requirements of our converting operation, and we have sold excess tonnage as parent rolls. The demand for parent rolls can fluctuate due to changes in converting demand, primarily in the away-from-home market and due to new paper machine start-ups. A significant reduction in demand or increase in paper making capacity can result in an over-supply of parent rolls, which could negatively affect the market price for parent rolls. A significant reduction in parent roll selling prices could reduce our revenues, decrease our profits and cause us to shut down some of our excess paper making capacity. We have indebtedness which limits our free cash flow and subjects us to restrictive covenants relating to the operation of our business. At December 31, 2013, we had $15.1 million of indebtedness. In 2014, under the terms of our existing loan agreement, we anticipate making principal payments of approximately $1.2 million and interest payments of approximately $292,000. Operating with this amount of leverage may require us to direct a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our debt, which reduces the funds otherwise available for operations, capital expenditures, payment of dividends, the pursuit of future business opportunities and other corporate purposes. It may also limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and our industry and may impair our ability to obtain additional financing. 20 Table of Contents The terms of our loan agreements require us to meet specified financial ratios and other financial and operating covenants which restrict our ability to incur additional debt, place liens on our assets, make capital expenditures, effect mergers or acquisitions, dispose of assets or pay dividends in certain circumstances. If we fail to meet those financial ratios and covenants and our lenders do not waive them, we may be required to pay fees and penalties, and our lenders could accelerate the maturity of our debt and proceed against any pledged collateral, which could force us to seek alternative financing, or otherwise adversely affect our business operations and/or liquidity. If this were to happen, we may be unable to obtain additional financing or it may not be available on terms acceptable to us. In 2013, we failed to meet two debt covenants that effectively limit annual capital expenditures. Prior to failing to meet these ratios, management requested and received an advanced waiver of these covenants from our lender. Additionally, the Company's indebtedness is secured by all or substantially all of the Company's assets. Therefore, if the Company defaults on any of its debt obligations, it could result in the lenders foreclosing on our assets. In such an event, the lenders' rights to such assets would likely be superior to those of our shareholders. If we are unable to continue to implement our business strategies, our financial conditions and operating results could be materially affected. Our future operating results will depend, in part, on the extent to which we can successfully implement our business strategies in a cost effective manner. However, our strategies are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to successfully implement our business strategies, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to sell the capacity generated from our converting lines. We continue to focus on increasing the capacity of our eleven converting lines; however, we may not be able to sell enough of our products to fully utilize such capacity. We currently have excess parent roll production capacity and our strategy includes converting and selling more of our parent roll tonnage as converted product. Converted products sell at a higher price per ton than parent rolls and typically carry a higher margin on a tonnage basis. If we are unable to increase our sales of converted product we will not be able to utilize the increased capacity from our converting lines, resulting in lost opportunity for increased margins and the need to temporarily or permanently curtail the production of one or more of our converting lines. Risks Related To Our Common Stock We may not sustain our quarterly dividend. On February 21, 2011, our board of directors initiated a quarterly cash dividend. We paid quarterly dividends totaling $1.35 per share in 2013 and $0.85 per share in 2012. We paid a $0.30 per share dividend in the first quarter of 2013 and a $0.35 per share dividend in each of the second, third and fourth quarters of 2013. We paid a $0.20 per share dividend in each of the first, second and third quarters of 2012 and increased the dividend to $0.25 per share in the fourth quarter of 2012. However, we may not sustain regular quarterly dividend payments. The declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors, and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of our businesses, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other factors that the board of directors deems relevant. Further, our credit agreement contains an indirect restriction on the amount of dividends we may pay in that the amount of any dividends paid is included in the calculation of our fixed charge coverage ratio. 21 Table of Contents Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a takeover. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover. These provisions may: •discourage, delay or prevent a change in the control of the Company or a change in our management; •adversely affect the voting power of holders of common stock; and •limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our future operating results may be below securities analysts' or investors' expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our revenue and income potential depends on expanding our production capacity and finding buyers for our additional production, and we may be unable to generate significant revenues or grow at the rate expected by securities analysts or investors. In addition, our costs may be higher than we, securities analysts or investors expect. If we fail to generate sufficient revenues or our costs are higher than we expect, our results of operations will suffer, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Our results of operations will depend upon numerous factors, including: •the market price of our product; •the cost of fiber used in producing paper; •the efficiency of operations in both our paper mill and converting facility; and •the cost of energy. Our operating results in any particular period may not be a reliable indication of our future performance. In some future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock will likely decline. Our common stock has low average trading volume, and we expect that the price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially. The average daily trading volume of our common stock in 2013 was approximately 42,000 shares. The market price for our common stock is affected by a number of factors, including: •actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; •changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts' earnings estimates; and •developments in our industry. The stock prices of many companies in the paper products industry have experienced wide fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Because of the low trading volume, our stock price is subject to greater potential volatility. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Class action securities litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management resources, which could significantly harm our business. 22 Table of Contents Our directors have limited personal liability and rights of indemnification from us for their actions as directors. Our certificate of incorporation limits the liability of directors to the maximum extent permitted by Delaware law. Delaware law provides that directors of a corporation will not be personally liable for monetary damages for breach of their fiduciary duties as directors, except liability for: •any breach of their duty of loyalty to the corporation or its stockholders; •acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law; •unlawful payments of dividends or unlawful stock repurchases or redemptions; or •any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. This limitation of liability does not apply to liabilities arising under the federal securities laws and does not affect the availability of equitable remedies such as injunctive relief or rescission. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide that we will indemnify our directors and executive officers and other officers and employees and agents to the fullest extent permitted by law. We entered into separate indemnification agreements with each of our directors and officers which are broader than the specific indemnification provision under Delaware law. Under these agreements, we are required to indemnify them against all expenses, judgments, fines, settlements and other amounts actually and reasonably incurred, in connection with any actual, or any threatened, proceeding if any of them may be made a party because he or she is or was one of our directors or officers. If any litigation or proceeding were pursued against any of our directors, officers, employees or agents where indemnification is required or permitted, we could incur significant legal expenses and be responsible for any resulting settlement or judgment. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 