ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Set forth below is a detailed discussion of certain of these risks and other risks affecting our business. In addition to the other information in this document, you should consider carefully the following risk factors. Any of these risks or the occurrence of any one or more of the uncertainties described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the performance of our business. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY Freight transportation rates for the Inland Waterways fluctuate from time to time and may decrease. Freight transportation rates fluctuate from season to season and year to year. Levels of dry and liquid cargo being transported on the Inland Waterways vary based on several factors, including global economic conditions and business cycles, domestic agricultural production and demand, international agricultural production and demand and foreign exchange rates. Additionally, fluctuation of ocean freight rate spreads between the Gulf of Mexico and the Pacific Northwest affects demand for barging on the Inland Waterways. The number of barges and towboats available to transport dry and liquid cargo on the Inland Waterways also varies from year to year as older vessels are retired and new vessels are placed into service. The resulting relationship between levels of cargoes and vessels available for transport affects the freight transportation rates that we are able to charge. Significant periods of high vessel availability relative to cargo demand could adversely affect demand for our services and the rates we are able to charge. An oversupply of barging capacity may lead to reductions in freight rates. Our industry has previously suffered from oversupply of barges relative to demand for barging services. Such oversupply may recur due to a variety of factors, including a drop in demand, overbuilding and delay in scrapping of barges approaching the end of their useful economic lives. Once an oversupply of barges occurs, it can take several years before supply matches demand due to the variable nature of the barging industry and the freight transportation industry in general and the relatively long life of marine equipment. Such oversupply could lead to reductions in the freight rates that we are able to charge. Yields from North American and worldwide grain harvests could materially affect demand for our barging services. Demand for dry cargo barging in North America is affected significantly by the volume of grain exports flowing through ports in the Gulf of Mexico. The volume of grain exports can vary due to, among other things, crop harvest yield levels in the United States and abroad. Overseas grain shortages increase demand for U.S. grain, while worldwide over-production decreases demand for U.S. grain. Other factors, such as how receptive the overseas markets are to genetically altered products, may also affect demand for U.S. grain. Fluctuations in demand for U.S. grain exports can lead to temporary barge oversupply, which in turn leads to reduced freight rates. We cannot assure you that historical levels of U.S. grain exports will be maintained in the future. Diminishing demand for new barge construction may lead to a reduction in sales prices for new barges. The price we have been able to charge for Jeffboat production has fluctuated historically based on a variety of factors including the cost of raw materials, the cost of labor and the demand for new barge builds compared to the barge manufacturing capacity within the industry at the time. During 2005, we began to increase the pricing on our barges, net of steel costs, in response to increased demand for new barge construction. We plan to continue increasing the pricing on our barges, net of steel, in conjunction with the expected additional demand for new barge construction going forward. If demand for new barge construction diminishes going forward, we may not be able to increase pricing over our current levels or maintain pricing at current levels. 17 Table of Contents Higher fuel prices, if not recouped from our customers, could dramatically increase operating expenses and adversely affect profitability. In 2005, fuel expenses represented approximately 19% of our operating expenses. Fuel prices are subject to fluctuation as a result of domestic and international events. Nearly all of our long-term contracts contain provisions that allow us to pass along a significant portion of any fuel expense increase to our customers, thereby reducing, but not eliminating, our fuel price risk. We are subject to adverse weather and river conditions. Our barging operations are affected by weather and river conditions. Varying weather patterns can affect river levels and cause ice to form in certain river areas of the United States. For example, the Upper Mississippi River closes annually from approximately mid-December to mid-March, and ice conditions can hamper navigation on the upper reaches of the Illinois River during the winter months. During hurricane season in the summer and early fall, we may be subject to revenue loss, business interruptions and equipment and facilities damage, particularly in the Gulf region. With respect to our Venezuelan operations, barge transportation is limited to the period between late May and December, when the Orinoco River has a sufficient water level for navigation. In addition, adverse river conditions affect towboat speed, tow size and loading drafts and can delay barge movements. Lock outages due to lock maintenance and other interruptions in normal lock operation can also delay barge movements. Jeffboat’s waterfront facility is subject to occasional flooding. Jeffboat’s manufacturing operation, much of which is conducted outdoors, is also subject to weather conditions. As a result, these operations are subject to production schedule delays caused by severe weather. Terminals may also experience operational interruptions as a result of weather or river conditions. Seasonal fluctuations in industry demand could adversely affect our operating results, cash flow and working capital requirements. Segments of the inland barging business are seasonal. Historically, our revenue and profits have been lower during the first six months of the year and higher during the last six months of the year. This seasonality is due primarily to the timing of the North American grain harvest. Our working capital requirements track the rise and fall of our revenue and profits throughout the year. As a result, adverse market or operating conditions during the last six months of a calendar year could disproportionately adversely affect our operating results, cash flow and working capital requirements for the whole year. The aging infrastructure on the Inland Waterways may lead to increased costs and disruptions in our operations. Many of the dams and locks on the Inland Waterways were built early in the last century, and their age makes them costly to maintain and susceptible to unscheduled maintenance outages. Much of this infrastructure needs to be replaced, but federal government funding of its 50% share for new projects has historically been limited. The delays caused by malfunctioning dams and locks may increase our operating costs and delay the delivery of our cargoes. Moreover, increased diesel fuel user taxes could be imposed on us in the future to fund necessary infrastructure improvements, increasing our expenses. The inland barge transportation industry is highly competitive; increased competition could adversely affect us. The inland barge transportation industry is highly competitive, and there are few significant barriers to entry. Some of our principal competitors have greater financial resources or are less leveraged than we are and thus may be better able to withstand and respond to adverse market conditions within the barging industry. Increased competition in the future could result in a significant increase in available shipping capacity on the Inland Waterways, which could create downward rate pressure for us or result in our loss of business. See “Business — Competition.” 18 Table of Contents Global trade agreements, tariffs and subsidies could decrease the demand for imported and exported goods, adversely affecting the flow of import and export tonnage through the Port of New Orleans and the demand for barging services. The volume of goods imported through the Port of New Orleans is affected by subsidies or tariffs imposed by the U.S. or foreign governments. Demand for U.S. grain exports may be affected by the actions of foreign governments and global or regional economic developments. Foreign subsidies and tariffs on agricultural products affect the pricing of and the demand for U.S. agricultural exports. U.S. and foreign trade agreements can also affect demand for U.S. agricultural exports as well as goods imported into the United States. Similarly, national and international embargoes of the agricultural products of the United States or other countries may affect demand for U.S. agricultural exports. These events, all of which are beyond our control, could reduce the demand for our services. Our failure to comply with domestic or international government regulations affecting the domestic or foreign barging industries, or changes in these regulations, may cause us to incur significant expenses or affect our ability to operate. The domestic and foreign barging industries are subject to various laws and regulations, including international treaties, conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations and the laws and regulations of the flag nations of vessels, all of which are subject to amendment or changes in interpretation. In addition, various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies require barge operators to obtain and maintain permits, licenses and certificates respecting their operations. Any significant changes in laws or regulations affecting the inland barge industry, or in the interpretation thereof, could cause us to incur significant expenses. Furthermore, failure to comply with current or future laws and regulations may result in the imposition of fines and/or restrictions or prohibitions on our ability to operate. The Jones Act restricts foreign ownership of our stock, and the repeal, suspension or substantial amendment of the Jones Act could increase competition on the Inland Waterways and have a material adverse effect on our business. The Jones Act requires that, to be eligible to operate a vessel transporting non-proprietary cargo on the Inland Waterways, the company that owns the vessel must be at least 75% owned by U.S. citizens at each tier of its ownership. The Jones Act therefore restricts, directly or indirectly, foreign ownership interests in the entities that directly or indirectly own the vessels which we operate on the Inland Waterways. If we at any point cease to be 75% owned by U.S. citizens, we may become subject to penalties and risk forfeiture of our Inland Waterways operations. As of January 27, 2006, we are approximately 94% owned by U.S. citizens. The Jones Act continues to be in effect and supported by the U.S. Congress and the current administration. However, on September 1, 2005, President Bush temporarily authorized waivers of the Jones Act for domestic movements of petroleum products if U.S. flag coastwise qualified vessels are not available. We cannot assure you that the Jones Act will not be repealed, further suspended or amended in the future. If the Jones Act were to be repealed, suspended or substantially amended and, as a consequence, competitors with lower operating costs were to enter the Inland Waterways market, our business likely would be materially adversely affected. In addition, our advantages as a U.S.-citizen operator of Jones Act vessels could be eroded over time as there continue to be periodic efforts and attempts by foreign investors to circumvent certain aspects of the Jones Act. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our aging fleet of barges may lead to increased costs and disruptions in our operations. The average life expectancy of a dry cargo barge is 25 to 30 years. We anticipate that, by the end of 2009, approximately 27% of our current dry cargo barges will have reached the end of their economic useful lives. Once barges begin to reach 25 years of age, the cost to maintain and operate them may be so 19 Table of Contents high that it is more economical for the barges to be scrapped. If such barges are not scrapped, additional operating costs to repair and maintain the barges would likely reduce cash flows and earnings. If such barges are scrapped and not replaced, revenue, earnings and cash flows will decline. We may not be able to replace scrapped barges with new barges based on uncertainties related to financing, timing and shipyard availability. If such barges are replaced, significant capital outlays would be required. Our cash flows and borrowing facilities may not be adequate for our additional capital needs and, if we incur additional borrowings, our future cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest and principal of our substantial indebtedness. Our operations are capital intensive and require significant capital investment. We intend to fund substantially all of our needs to operate the business and make capital expenditures, including to invest in our aging barge fleet, through operating cash flows and borrowings. We may need more capital than may be available under the asset based revolver and therefore we will be required either to (a) seek to increase the availability under the asset based revolver or (b) obtain other sources of financing. If we incur additional indebtedness, the risk that our future cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our substantial indebtedness would increase. We may not be able to increase the availability under the asset based revolver or to obtain other sources of financing on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, we may be required to curtail our capital expenditures and we may not be able to invest in our aging barge fleet and to meet our obligations, including our obligations to pay the principal and interest under our indebtedness. There could be adverse consequences if the pending appeal of the confirmation of our Plan of Reorganization is successful. On January 19, 2005, MilFam II LP and Trust A-4 (together the “Miller Entities”), which hold approximately $22 million in principal amount of our PIK Notes, filed a notice of appeal in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Indiana (the “District Court”) challenging the confirmation of our Plan of Reorganization by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of Indiana, New Albany Division (the “Bankruptcy Court”) and the denial by the Bankruptcy Court of their motion for reconsideration. The Miller Entities have filed a statement of issues to be raised in the appeal, alleging that (a) the Bankruptcy Court undervalued our enterprise value and based its determination on inaccurate and incomplete information, (b) the Plan of Reorganization is not “fair and equitable” as to the Miller Entities or other holders of PIK Notes, (c) the PIK Notes should not have been subordinated to our 2008 Senior Notes, (d) certain releases should not have been granted and (e) HY I Investments, L.L.C. (“HY I”) should not have been permitted to vote on the Plan of Reorganization and DHC should not have received a recovery under the Plan of Reorganization. The Miller Entities unsuccessfully sought a stay of a part of the confirmation order. Among the remedies that the Miller Entities argue should be implemented is the issuance to holders of PIK Notes of sufficient additional new shares so that the holders of PIK Notes will realize the additional value that the Miller Entities assert the holders of PIK Notes are entitled, with the issuance of such additional new shares correspondingly diluting the value of new shares that were issued to holders of 2008 Senior Notes. The issuance of new shares could materially dilute the percentage of ownership of some or all of ACL Inc.’s stockholders. We are currently opposing the appeal. However, the appeal could be successful, and the ultimate outcome of this matter could materially adversely affect either our ability to fully consummate our Plan of Reorganization as confirmed or the market value of the common stock and could involve a material cost to us. The parties have fully briefed the issues raised by the Miller Entities’ appeal as well as by a motion that we filed to dismiss the appeal based upon principles previously identified as “equitable mootness”. The parties are waiting for a decision by the District Court. 20 Table of Contents Our barging services outside the United States subject us to changes in foreign economic and political conditions. Barging services provided to customers outside the United States represented approximately 3.0% of our revenue in 2005 and approximately 4.3% of our revenue in 2004. Demand for our services may be affected by economic and political conditions in each of the foreign countries in which we provide services. Our foreign operations are also subject to other risks of doing business abroad, including fluctuations in the value of currencies (which may affect demand for products priced in U.S. dollars as well as local labor and supply costs), import duties, changes to import and export regulations (including quotas), possible restrictions on the repatriation of capital and earnings, labor or civil unrest, long payment cycles, greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable, the burdens and cost of compliance with a variety of foreign laws, changes in citizenship requirements for purposes of doing business and government expropriation of operations or assets. From time to time, there have been proposals to adopt regulations or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business or market opportunities, and we cannot assure you that the political, cultural, economic or business climate outside the United States will be favorable to our operations. A disposition of our Venezuelan operations would affect earnings. From time to time, we have had discussions with entities expressing some level of interest in acquiring our Venezuelan operations. While we have not entered into any agreements, we would consider the sale of our Venezuelan operations in exchange for appropriate consideration. While such a sale would result in a one-time boost to cash from investing activities, it would decrease cash flow from operating activities on a going-forward basis due to the elimination of the cash flow stream from our Venezuelan operations. The loss of one or more key customers, or material nonpayment or nonperformance by one or more of our key customers, would have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. In 2005, our largest customer, Cargill, accounted for approximately 12% of our revenue, and our largest ten customers accounted for approximately 34% of our revenue. Our long-term contract with Cargill expired at the end of 2005. While we are continuing our relationship with Cargill following the expiration of this contract, we cannot assure you that the economics of the relationship will be as favorable to us as the terms of the former contract. If we were to lose one or more of our large customers or if one or more of our large customers were to significantly reduce the amount of barging services they purchased from us and we were unable to redeploy that equipment on similar terms, or if one or more of our key customers failed to pay or perform, we could experience a significant loss of revenue. A major accident or casualty loss at any of our facilities could significantly reduce production. One or more of our facilities may experience a major accident and may be subject to unplanned events such as explosions, fires, inclement weather, acts of God and transportation interruptions. Any shutdown or interruption of a facility could reduce the production from that facility and could prevent us from conducting our business for an indefinite period of time at that facility, which could substantially impair our business. For example, such an occurrence at our Jeffboat facility could disrupt or shut down our manufacturing activities. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover our resulting losses. Our employees are covered by federal maritime laws that may subject us to job-related claims in addition to those provided by state laws. Many of our employees are covered by federal maritime laws, including provisions of the Jones Act, the Longshore and Harbor Workers Act and the Seaman’s Wage Act. These laws typically operate to make liability limits established by state workers’ compensation laws inapplicable to these employees and to permit these employees and their representatives to pursue actions against employers for job-related injuries in federal court. Because we are not generally protected by the limits imposed by state workers’ 21 Table of Contents compensation statutes for these employees, we may have greater exposure for any claims made by these employees than is customary in the individual states. We have experienced significant work stoppages by union employees in the past, and future work stoppages may disrupt our services and adversely affect our operations. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 813 domestic employees are represented by unions. Most of these domestic unionized employees (approximately 792) are represented by General Drivers, Warehousemen and Helpers, Local Union No. 89, affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America (“Teamsters”), at our Jeffboat shipyard facility under a collective bargaining agreement that expires in April 2007. Our remaining domestic unionized employees (approximately 21 individuals) are represented by the International Union of United Mine Workers of America, District 12-Local 2452 at American Commercial Terminals in St. Louis, Missouri under a collective bargaining agreement that expires in November 2007. In 2002, we experienced a ten-week work stoppage when the Teamsters’ prior collective bargaining agreement expired, which significantly reduced revenue during that period. In addition, approximately 127 of our 155 Venezuelan employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the Labor Union of the Company ACBL de Venezuela, C.A. (Sintra-ACBL), which expires in February 2007. Although we believe that our relations with our employees and with the recognized labor unions are generally good, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to work stoppages or other labor disruption in the future. The loss of key personnel, including highly skilled and licensed vessel personnel, could adversely affect our business. We believe that our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and to operate profitably depends on the continued employment of our senior management team and other key personnel, including highly skilled and licensed vessel personnel. Specifically, experienced vessel operators, including captains, are not quickly replaceable and the loss of high-level vessel employees over a short period of time could impair our ability to fully man all of our vessels. If key employees depart, we may have to incur significant costs to replace them and our ability to execute our business model could be impaired if we cannot replace them in a timely manner. Therefore, any loss or reduction in the number of such key personnel could adversely affect our future operating results. Failure to comply with environmental, health and safety regulations could result in substantial penalties and changes to our operations. Our operations, facilities, properties and vessels are subject to extensive and evolving laws and regulations pertaining to air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and oil and oil-related products, hazardous substances and wastes, the investigation and remediation of contamination, and health, safety and the protection of the environment and natural resources. As a result, we are involved from time to time in administrative and legal proceedings related to environmental, health and safety matters and have in the past and will continue to incur capital costs and other expenditures relating to such matters. In addition to environmental laws that regulate our ongoing operations, we are also subject to environmental remediation liability. Under CERCLA, analogous state laws and OPA 90, we may be liable as a result of the release or threatened release of hazardous substances or wastes or other pollutants into the environment at or by our facilities, properties or vessels, or as a result of our current or past operations. These laws typically impose liability and cleanup responsibility without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the release or threatened release. Even if more than one person may be liable for the investigation and release or threatened release, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the investigation and cleanup costs incurred. In addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damage based on personal injury, property damage or other costs, including investigation and cleanup costs, resulting from environmental contamination. 22 Table of Contents A release or threatened release of hazardous substances or wastes, or other pollutants into the environment at or by our facilities, properties or vessels, as the result of our current or past operations, or at a facility to which we have shipped wastes, or the existence of historical contamination at any of our properties, could result in material liability to us. We conduct loading and unloading of dry commodities, liquids and scrap materials in and near waterways. Such operations present a potential that some such material might be spilled or otherwise released into the environment, thus exposing us to potential liability. We are currently involved in six matters relating to the investigation or remediation of locations where hazardous materials have been released or where we or our vendors have arranged for the disposal of wastes. Such matters include situations in which we have been named or are believed to be “potentially responsible parties” under CERCLA or state laws or OPA 90 in connection with contamination of these sites. See “Business — Litigation — Environmental Litigation.” As of December 31, 2005, we had reserves totaling approximately $.04 million for environmental matters. Any cash expenditures required to comply with applicable environmental laws or to pay for any remediation efforts will not be reduced or otherwise affected by the existence of the environmental reserves. Our environmental reserves may not be adequate to cover our future costs related to the sites associated with the environmental reserves, and any significant additional costs could adversely affect our financial condition. The discovery of additional sites, the modification of existing laws or regulations or the promulgation of new laws or regulations, more vigorous enforcement by regulators, the imposition of joint and several liability under CERCLA or analogous state laws or OPA 90 and other unanticipated events could also result in such a material adverse effect. Our financial condition and results of operations will not be comparable to the financial condition or results of operations reflected in our historical financial statements. As a result of the reorganization, we are operating our business under a new capital structure. In addition, we are subject to fresh start accounting principles. As required by fresh start accounting principles, assets and liabilities are recorded at fair value, with the enterprise value being determined in connection with the reorganization. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations from and after December 31, 2004, the effective date of the Plan of Reorganization for accounting purposes, will not be comparable to the financial condition or results of operations reflected in our historical financial statements included elsewhere in this prospectus, making it difficult to compare our operations to prior periods and to assess our future prospects based on historical performance. We are subject to, and may in the future be subject to, disputes, or legal or other proceedings that could involve significant expenditures by us. The nature of our business exposes us to the potential for disputes or legal or other proceedings from time to time relating to labor and employment matters, personal injury and property damage, product liability matters, environmental matters, tax matters and other matters, as discussed in the other risk factors. Specifically, we are subject to claims on cargo damage from our customers and injury claims from our vessel personnel. These disputes, individually or collectively, could harm our business by distracting our management from the operation of our business. If these disputes develop into proceedings, these proceedings, individually or collectively, could involve significant expenditures by us. We are currently involved in one bankruptcy proceeding and six environmental matters. See “Business — Litigation.” Investor confidence and the market price of our common stock may be adversely impacted if we are unable to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As an SEC registrant, ACL Inc. will be subject to the rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which will require us to include in our annual report on Form 10-K our management’s report on, and assessment of the effectiveness of, our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. These 23 Table of Contents requirements will first apply to our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. Section 404’s requirements include evaluating and testing our controls over the information technology environment, such as systems development and implementation, maintenance, data conversion, system interface controls, security technologies, administration and third-party providers. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, we will not be in compliance with all of the requirements imposed by Section 404. Moreover, effective internal controls over financial reporting, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important in helping to prevent financial fraud. Any failure to comply with Section 404 could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could harm our business and could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. We believe the total cost of complying with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including investment in information systems, may exceed $2 million. The additional future costs of complying with these requirements may be substantial. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 