ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere, and the other information contained, in this Report and in our other filings with the SEC, including our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs with material adverse effects on us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock will likely decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our earnings may be adversely affected by the discontinuance of our licensing relationship in Europe and the additional expenses incurred while taking direct control of the Volcom brand in Europe. Since 1996, we have conducted our operations in Europe through a licensee. Our European licensing revenues were $2.3 million, $1.7 million and $1.5 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004 respectively. We are currently in the process of taking direct control of the Volcom brand in Europe. Through the first half of 2007, we will only generate royalty revenue from our European licensee and will not generate any significant revenue from our direct European operations. During this time, we expect to incur significant costs as we continue to build infrastructure and hire additional personnel to support the European business. These additional costs will cause a significant increase and ramp up in our selling, general and administrative expenses. These additional expenses will not generate any additional revenue during the first half of 2007 and will decrease our earnings and affect our overall financial performance during this period. One retail customer represents a material amount of our revenues, and the loss of this retail customer or reduced purchases from this retail customer may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Pacific Sunwear accounted for approximately 26% of our product revenues in 2006 and approximately 29% in 2005. We do not have a long-term contract with Pacific Sunwear, and all of its purchases from us have historically been on a purchase order basis. Sales to Pacific Sunwear increased 18%, or $8.3 million, for 2006 compared to 2005. However, we may see sales to Pacific Sunwear decline, and we currently expect a decrease in sales to Pacific Sunwear for 2007 compared to 2006. It is unclear where our sales to Pacific Sunwear will trend in the longer term. We recognize that any customer concentration creates risks and we are, therefore, assessing strategies to lessen our concentration with Pacific Sunwear. We cannot predict whether such strategies will reduce, in whole or in part, our sales concentration with Pacific Sunwear in the near or long term. Because Pacific Sunwear has represented such a significant amount of our product revenues, our results of operations are likely to be adversely affected by any Pacific Sunwear decision to decrease its rate of purchases of our products. Any further decrease in its purchases of our products or if it no longer purchases our products or a change in the timing of its orders will have an additional adverse affect on our operating results. If our new product initiatives are not accepted by our customers or if we are unable to maintain our margins, it could materially affect our financial performance. We are currently in the process of introducing several new product lines, including our Creedlers sandals and slip-on footwear, girls swimwear and kids lines. These categories are subject to intense competition in the marketplace. As is typical with new products, market acceptance of these new lines is uncertain and achieving market acceptance may require substantial marketing efforts and expenditures. We also cannot assure you that these new products will have the same or better margins than our current products. The failure of the new product lines to gain market acceptance or our inability to maintain our current product margins with the new lines could adversely affect our business, financial performance and brand image. 13 Table of Contents If our marketing efforts do not effectively maintain and expand our brand name recognition, we may not be able to achieve our growth strategy. We believe that broader recognition and favorable perception of our brand by consumers in our target market is essential to our future success. To increase brand recognition, we believe we must continue to devote significant amounts of time and resources to advertising and promotions. These expenditures, however, may not result in an increase in favorable recognition of our brand or a sufficient increase in revenues to cover such advertising and promotional expenses. In addition, even if our brand recognition increases, our consumer base and our revenues may not increase, and may in fact decline, either of which could harm our business. If we are unable to continue to develop innovative and stylish products, demand for our products may decrease and our brand image may be harmed. The boardsports apparel industry is subject to constantly and rapidly changing consumer preferences based on fashion trends and performance features. Our success depends largely on our ability to anticipate, gauge and respond to these changing consumer demands and fashion trends in a timely manner while preserving the relevancy and authenticity of our brand. In addition, we generally make decisions regarding product designs several months in advance of the time when consumer acceptance can be measured. Our success is largely dependent upon our ability to continue to develop innovative and stylish products. As is typical with new products, market acceptance of new designs and products we may introduce is subject to uncertainty. We cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful. The failure of new product designs or new product lines to gain market acceptance could adversely affect our business and our brand image. Achieving market acceptance for new products may also require substantial marketing efforts and expenditures to expand consumer demand. These requirements could strain our management, financial and operational resources. If we do not continue to develop stylish and innovative products that provide better design and performance attributes than the products of our competitors and that are accepted by consumers, we may lose consumer loyalty, which could result in a decline in our revenues and market share. Changes in the mix of retailers to whom we distribute our products could impact our gross margin and brand image, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We sell our products through a mix of retailers, including specialty boardsports retailers and several retail chains. Although we do not currently anticipate material changes in the mix of our retail customers, any such changes could adversely affect our gross margin and could negatively affect both our brand image and our reputation with our consumers. A negative change in our gross margin or our brand image and acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to sustain our past growth or manage our future growth, which may have a material adverse effect on our future operating results. We have experienced rapid growth since our inception, and have increased our revenues from $57.1 million in 2002 to $205.3 million in 2006. We anticipate our rate of growth in the future will depend upon, among other things, the success of our growth strategies, which we cannot assure you will be successful. In addition, we may have more difficulty maintaining our prior rate of growth of revenues and profitability. Our future success will depend upon various factors, including the strength of our brand image, the market success of our current and future products, competitive conditions and our ability to manage increased revenues, if any, or implement our growth strategy. In addition, we anticipate significantly expanding our infrastructure and adding personnel in connection with our anticipated growth, which we expect will cause our selling, general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars and which may cause our selling, general and administrative expenses to increase as a percentage of revenue. Because these expenses are generally fixed, particularly in the short-term, operating results may be adversely impacted if we do not achieve our anticipated growth. Future growth may place a significant strain on our management and operations. If we continue to experience growth in our operations, our operational, administrative, financial and legal procedures and controls may need to be expanded. As a result, we may need to train and manage an increasing number of employees, which could 14 Table of Contents distract our management team from our business. Our future success will depend substantially on the ability of our management team to manage our anticipated growth. If we are unable to anticipate or manage our growth effectively, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our business could be harmed if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels. We have traditionally received a substantial portion of our customer orders prior to placement of our initial manufacturing orders. However, we also maintain an inventory of selected core products that we anticipate will be in high demand, such as t-shirts. We may be unable to sell the products we have ordered in advance from manufacturers or that we have in our inventory. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, or the sale of excess inventory at discounted or close-out prices, all of which could adversely affect our gross margins. These events could significantly harm our operating results and impair our brand image. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages might result in unfilled orders, negatively impact retailer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost revenues, any of which could harm our business. If we are unable to maintain and expand our endorsements by professional athletes, our ability to market and sell our products may be harmed. A key element of our marketing strategy has been to obtain endorsements from prominent boardsports athletes, which contributes to our authenticity and brand image. We believe that this strategy has been an effective means of gaining brand exposure worldwide and creating broad appeal for our products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our existing relationships with these individuals in the future or that we will be able to attract new athletes to endorse our products. Larger companies with greater access to capital for athlete sponsorship may in the future increase the cost of sponsorship for these athletes to levels we may choose not to match. If this were to occur, our sponsored athletes may terminate their relationships with us and endorse the products of our competitors and we may be unable to obtain endorsements from other comparable athletes. We also are subject to risks related to the selection of athletes to endorse our products. We may select athletes who are unable to perform at expected levels or who are not sufficiently marketable. In addition, negative publicity concerning any of our athletes could harm our brand and adversely impact our business. If we are unable in the future to secure prominent athletes and arrange athlete endorsements of our products on terms we deem to be reasonable, we may be required to modify our marketing platform and to rely more heavily on other forms of marketing and promotion, which may not prove to be as effective. If we fail to secure or protect our intellectual property rights, counterfeiters may be able to copy and sell imitations of our products and competitors may be able to use our designs, each of which could harm our reputation, reduce our revenues and increase our costs. We rely on intellectual property laws to protect our proprietary rights with respect to our trademarks and pending patent. We are susceptible to injury from the counterfeiting of our products, which may harm our reputation for producing high-quality products or force us to incur additional expense in enforcing our rights. It is difficult and expensive to detect and prevent counterfeiting. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, counterfeiters may continue to violate our intellectual property rights by using our trademarks and imitating our products, which could potentially harm our brand, reputation and financial condition. Since our products are sold internationally, we are also dependent on the laws of foreign countries to protect our intellectual property. These laws may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent or in the same manner as the laws of the United States. We cannot be certain that our efforts to protect our intellectual property will be successful or that the costs associated with protecting our rights abroad will not negatively impact our results of operations. We may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights both inside and outside of the United States. Infringement claims and lawsuits likely would be expensive to resolve and would require substantial management time and resources. Any adverse determination in litigation could subject us to the loss of our rights to a particular trademark, which could prevent us from 15 Table of Contents manufacturing, selling or using certain aspects of our products or could subject us to substantial liability, any of which would harm our results of operations. Aside from infringement claims against us, if we fail to secure or protect our intellectual property rights, our competitors may be able to use our designs. If we are unable to successfully protect our intellectual property rights or resolve any conflicts, our results of operations may be harmed. Our current executive officers and management personnel are critical to our success, and the loss of these individuals could harm our business, brand and image. We are heavily dependent on our current executive officers and management. The loss of any executive officers or management personnel, or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and harm our ability to sell, our products and damage our brand image. We believe that our future success is highly dependent on the contributions, talents and leadership of Richard Woolcott, our President, Chief Executive Officer and founder. While our other key executive officers have substantial experience and have made significant contributions to our business, Richard remains a driving force behind our brand image and philosophy. We have not entered into an employment agreement with Richard and we cannot be certain that he will stay with us. Richard’s services would be very difficult to replace. We do not carry key man insurance and do not expect to carry such insurance in the future. We may not be able to retain our current executive officers and management personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our ability to attract and retain qualified design and sales and marketing personnel is critical to our success, and any inability to attract and retain such personnel could harm our business. Our future success may also depend on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified design and sales and marketing personnel. We face competition for these individuals worldwide, and there is a significant concentration of boardsports apparel and action sports companies based in and around our headquarters in Orange County, California. We may not be able to attract or retain these employees, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our retailers, and the loss of orders for our products from our retailers may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We do not maintain long-term contracts with any of our retailers, and retailers generally purchase products from us on a purchase order basis. As a result, our retailers generally may, with little or no notice or penalty, decide to cease ordering and selling our products, or could materially reduce their orders in any period. If certain retailers, individually or in the aggregate, choose to no longer sell our products, it may be difficult for us to change our distribution to other retailers in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any inability to receive timely deliveries from our manufacturers could harm our business. We face the risk that the manufacturers with whom we contract to produce our products may not produce and deliver our products on a timely basis or at all. Our products are generally produced by independent, foreign manufacturers. In 2006, we used approximately 30 of such manufacturers. We cannot be certain that we will not experience operational difficulties with our manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with product specifications, insufficient quality control, failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. The failure of any manufacturer to perform to our expectations could result in supply shortages or untimely deliveries of certain products, either of which could harm our business. 16 Table of Contents If the United States continues to impose tariffs and import quota restrictions on products manufactured in China and we are unable to obtain sufficient product from countries other than China or from domestic sources, or if the products we obtain from these other countries or domestic sources are of insufficient quality, it could materially affect our gross margin and financial performance. Virtually all of our merchandise imported into the United States is subject to duties. Until January 1, 2005, our apparel merchandise was also subject to quota. Quota represents the right, pursuant to bilateral or other international trade arrangements, to export amounts of certain categories of merchandise into a country or territory pursuant to a visa or license. Pursuant to the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing, quota on textile and apparel products was eliminated for World Trade Organization, or WTO, member countries on January 1, 2005. Notwithstanding quota elimination, China’s accession agreement for membership into the WTO provides that WTO member countries (including the United States, Canada and European countries) may re-impose quotas on specific categories of products in the event it is determined that imports from China have surged and are threatening to create a market disruption for such categories of products (so called “safeguard quota provisions”). The United States may also unilaterally impose additional duties in response to a particular product being imported (from China or other countries) in such increased quantities as to cause (or threaten) serious damage to the relevant domestic industry (generally known as “anti-dumping” actions). In addition, the European Union also agreed with China on a new textile arrangement which imposed quotas through the end of 2007. While this new arrangement will not materially affect us in the first half of 2007 since our Spring 2007 European line will be produced, marketed and distributed by our European licensee, the arrangement could affect us once we begin to directly distribute our products in Europe during the second half of 2007. Additionally, China has imposed an export tax on all textile products manufactured in China. The United States and other countries in which our products are manufactured and sold may, from time to time, impose new duties, tariffs, surcharges or other import controls or restrictions, including the imposition of “safeguard quota”, or adjust presently prevailing duty or tariff rates or levels. The establishment of these quotas or additional quotas or duties could cause disruption in our supply chain and could materially adversely affect our gross margin and financial performance. Any shortage of raw materials could impair our ability to ship orders of our products in a cost-efficient manner or could cause us to miss the delivery requirements of our customers, which could harm our business. The capacity of our manufacturers to manufacture our products is dependent, in part, upon the availability of raw materials. Our manufacturers may experience shortages of raw materials, which could result in delays in deliveries of our products by our manufacturers or in increased costs to us. Any shortage of raw materials or inability to control costs associated with manufacturing could increase the costs for our products or impair our ability to ship orders of our products in a cost-efficient manner and could cause us to miss the delivery requirements of our customers. As a result, we could experience cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in our prices and margins, any of which could harm our financial performance and results of operations. If we are required to establish new manufacturing relationships due to the termination of current key manufacturing relationships with large contractors such as Ningbo Jehson Textiles and Dragon Crowd, we would likely experience increased costs, disruptions in the manufacture and shipment of our products and a loss of revenue. Our manufacturers could cease to provide products to us with little or no notice. Two contractors, Ningbo Jehson Textiles and Dragon Crowd accounted for 12% and 15%, respectively, of our product costs in 2006, and 10% and 10%, respectively, of our product costs in 2005. A loss of either or both of these manufacturers or other key manufacturers may result in delayed deliveries to our retailers, could adversely impact our revenues in a given season and may require the establishment of new manufacturing relationships, which involves numerous uncertainties, such as whether the new manufacturers will perform to our expectations and produce quality products in a timely, cost-efficient manner on a consistent basis, either of which could make it difficult for us to meet our retailers’ orders on satisfactory commercial terms. If we are required to establish new manufacturing relationships, we would likely experience increased costs in seeking out such relationships, disruptions in the manufacture and shipment of our products while seeking alternative manufacturing sources and a corresponding loss of revenues. 17 Table of Contents Our business could suffer if any of our or our licensees’ key manufacturers fails to use acceptable labor practices. It is difficult to monitor and control the labor practices of our independent manufacturers. The violation of labor or other laws by an independent manufacturer utilized by us or a licensee of ours, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer’s or licensing partner’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States, could damage our reputation or interrupt, or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or our licensees if such manufacturer is ordered to cease its manufacturing operations due to violations of laws or if such manufacturer’s operations are adversely affected by such failure to use acceptable labor practices. If this were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to compete effectively, which could cause our revenues and market share to decline. The boardsports apparel industry, and the apparel industry in general, is highly competitive. We compete with numerous domestic and foreign designers, distributors, marketers and manufacturers of apparel, accessories and other related products, some of which are significantly larger and have greater resources than we do. We believe that in order to compete effectively, we must continue to maintain our brand image and reputation, be flexible and innovative in responding to rapidly changing market demands and consumer preferences, and offer consumers a wide variety of high-quality apparel at premium prices. We compete primarily on the basis of brand image, style, performance and quality. The purchasing decisions of consumers are highly subjective and can be influenced by many factors, such as brand image, marketing programs and product design. Several of our competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages, including greater brand recognition, longer operating histories, more comprehensive product lines and greater financial resources for competitive activities, such as sales and marketing and strategic acquisitions. The number of our direct competitors and the intensity of competition may increase as we expand into other product lines or as other companies expand into our product lines. Our competitors may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions or prevent us from taking advantage of such combinations or alliances. Our competitors also may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, standards or consumer preferences, which could result in a decline in our revenues and market share. We may be adversely affected by the financial condition of our retailers. Some of our retailers have experienced financial difficulties in the past. A retailer experiencing such difficulties will generally not purchase and sell as many of our products as it would under normal circumstances and may cancel orders. In addition, a retailer experiencing financial difficulties generally increases our exposure to the risk of uncollectible receivables. We extend credit to our retailers based on our assessment of the retailer’s financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and reserves, we cannot assure you that this will continue. Financial difficulties on the part of our retailers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our revenues and operating income fluctuate on a seasonal basis and decreases in sales or margins during our peak seasons could have a disproportionate effect on our overall financial condition and results of operations. Historically, our operating results have been subject to seasonal trends when measured on a quarterly basis. In the past, we have experienced greater revenues in the second half of the year than those in the first half due to a concentration of shopping around the fall and holiday seasons, and pricing differences between our products sold during the first and second half of the year, as products we sell in the fall and holiday seasons generally have higher prices per unit than products we sell in the spring and summer seasons. We typically sell more of our summer products (boardshorts and t-shirts) in the first half of the year and a majority of our winter products (pants, long sleeve shirts, sweaters, fleece, jackets and outerwear) in the second half of the year. We anticipate that this seasonal impact on our revenues is likely to continue. Because a substantial portion of our operating income is derived from our third and fourth quarter revenues, a shortfall in expected third and fourth quarter revenues would cause our annual operating results to suffer significantly. 18 Table of Contents Cyclical economic trends in apparel retailing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The apparel industry historically has been subject to substantial cyclicality. As the economic conditions in the United States change, the trends in discretionary consumer spending become unpredictable and discretionary consumer spending could be reduced due to uncertainties about the future. When discretionary consumer spending is reduced, purchases of premium apparel and related products may decline. A recession in the general economy or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect consumer spending habits could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We face business, political, operational, financial and economic risks because a portion of our revenues are from international customers, substantially all of our products are sourced overseas and our licensees operate outside of the United States. We and our international licensees are subject to risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our and our licensees’ control, including: • difficulties obtaining domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses, and compliance with foreign laws, which could halt, interrupt or delay our operations if we cannot obtain such approvals, permits and licenses; • difficulties encountered by our international licensees or us in staffing and managing foreign operations or international sales; • transportation delays and difficulties of managing international distribution channels; • longer payment cycles for, and greater difficulty collecting, accounts receivable and royalty payments; • trade restrictions, higher tariffs, currency fluctuations or the imposition of additional regulations relating to import or export of our products, especially in China, where a large portion of our products are manufactured, which could force us to seek alternate manufacturing sources or increase our expenses; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, royalties and withholding taxes that restrict the repatriation of earnings and effects on our effective income tax rate due to profits generated or lost in foreign countries; • political and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; and • natural disasters. Any of these factors could reduce our revenues, decrease our gross margins or increase our expenses and could materially adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. To the extent that we establish our own operations in international territories where we currently utilize a licensee, such as in Europe, we will increasingly become subject to risks associated with operating outside of the United States. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could harm our results of operations. We purchase finished goods from foreign manufacturers and sell our products in transactions denominated in U.S. dollars, except for in Europe and Canada, where our sales are denominated primarily in Euros and Canadian dollars, respectively. As a result, if the U.S. dollar were to weaken against foreign currencies, our cost of goods sold could increase substantially. We also receive royalty payments from certain of our licensees, whose sales are denominated in their local currencies. While our licensees pay us royalty payments in U.S. dollars, if the U.S. dollar were to strengthen significantly against the local currencies in which our licensees sell our products, our licensing revenues would decrease, which could harm our results of operations. 19 Table of Contents If the ownership of our common stock continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent you and other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and may result in conflicts of interest that could cause our stock price to decline. As of December 31, 2006, our executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially own or control approximately 27.2% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, of which René Woolcott and Richard Woolcott owns approximately 11.4% and 15.8%, respectively, of the 24,295,420 outstanding shares. Accordingly, our current executive officers, directors and their affiliates, acting as a group, will have substantial control over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transactions. These stockholders may also delay or prevent a change of control of us, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. The market price of our common stock is highly volatile and may result in investors selling shares of our common stock at a loss. The trading price of our common stock is highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • conditions or trends in the fashion and boardsports industries; and • changes in the market valuations of similar companies. In addition, the stock market in general and the Nasdaq in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of listed companies. Industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources and could further a decline in the market price of our common stock. Stock price volatility may result in investors selling shares of our common stock at a loss. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 