Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company and its business. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that the Company currently deems immaterial may also impair its business operations. If any of these certain risks and uncertainties were to actually occur, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline and its investors may lose all or part of their investment. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: The restaurant industry in general and the fine dining segment in particular are vulnerable to fluctuations in economic conditions, including volatility in levels of consumer discretionary spending. A significant deterioration in economic conditions in any of the Company’s markets would reduce guest traffic or require its affected restaurants to lower their prices, either of which would reduce the Company’s total revenues and operating income. For example, the Company’s total revenues fell 4.9% and 0.1% in fiscal 2001 and fiscal 2002, respectively, which were years of declining discretionary consumer spending in the United States due in part to the September 11, 2001 attacks. In addition, we cannot predict the length or severity of the current economic downturn. Comparable company-owned restaurant sales decreased 1.0% in fiscal 2007 versus fiscal 2006 due primarily to declining discretionary spending with the economic downturn. In addition, natural disasters, including extreme weather events such as hurricanes, occurring within any of the Company’s market territories could cause reductions in revenues and/or disruptions in operations, such as restaurant closures. Any changes in economic conditions, or a continuation or increase in the severity of the current economic downturn would affect the Company’s ability to attract guests or price its menu items at favorable levels, which would result in significant reductions in revenue and/or operating income. Competitive conditions, consumer tastes and unexpected operating expenses could adversely affect the profitability of restaurants that the Company opens in new markets. The Company’s growth strategy includes opening restaurants in markets where it has little or no meaningful operating experience and in which its brand may not be well known. Competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns in these new markets may differ from those in its existing markets. The Company may be unable to generate similar acceptance of our brands due to these factors, which may require it to incur significant additional promotion costs in order to increase restaurant sales at these locations. The Company’s ability to operate new restaurants profitably will depend on numerous factors, some of which are beyond its control, including, but not limited to, the following: • locating and securing suitable new restaurant sites on acceptable lease terms; • construction and development costs; • obtaining adequate construction financing; • securing governmental approvals and permits, including liquor licenses; • hiring, training and retaining skilled management, chefs and other personnel; • successfully promoting new restaurants and competing in the markets in which new restaurants are located; and • general economic conditions and conditions specific to the restaurant industry. Any one of these factors could preclude the Company from operating new restaurants successfully, which could adversely affect growth and profitability. 12 Table of Contents The Company’s growth may strain its infrastructure and resources, which could delay the opening of new restaurants and adversely affect its ability to manage existing restaurants. The Company currently plans to continue its accelerated pace of new restaurant growth. This growth will place increased demands on management resources as well as human resources, purchasing and site management teams. The Company’s planned growth in franchisee-owned restaurants will also require additional infrastructure for the development and maintenance of franchise relationships, as well as for the monitoring of those restaurants. In addition, if the Company’s current restaurant management systems, financial and management controls and information systems are insufficient to support this expansion, its ability to open new restaurants and to manage existing restaurants would be adversely affected. If the Company fails to continue to improve its infrastructure, the Company may be unable to implement its growth strategy and/or maintain current levels of operating performance in existing restaurants. We may not be able to successfully integrate into our business the operations of restaurants that we have acquired, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. On February 19, 2008, the Company completed the acquisition of the Mitchell’s Fish Market, operating under the names Mitchell’s Fish Market and Columbus Fish Market, and Cameron’s Steakhouse, operating under the names Cameron’s Steakhouse and Mitchell’s Steakhouse from Cameron Mitchell Restaurants, LLC (CMR). These restaurants will be the first the Company owns that focus primarily of serving seafood and that do not have the “Ruth’s Chris” brand. Achieving the expected benefits of these restaurants and any other restaurants that the Company acquires will depend in a large part on our ability to successfully integrate the operations of the acquired restaurants and personnel in a timely and efficient manner and develop their brands. The risks involved in the integration of this acquisition include: • the development of a new brand and the operation of restaurants that serve a seafood-based menu as opposed to the Company’s current steak-based menu; • challenges and costs associated with the acquisition and integration of restaurant operations located in markets where Ruth’s Chris has limited or no experience; • possible disruption to the Company’s business as a result of the diversion of management’s attention from its normal operational responsibilities and duties; and • consolidation of the corporate, information technology, accounting and administrative infrastructure and resources of the acquired restaurants into the Company’s business. If Ruth’s Chris cannot overcome the challenges and risks that we face in integrating the operations of newly acquired restaurants, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Negative publicity surrounding the Company’s restaurants or the consumption of beef generally, or shifts in consumer tastes, could reduce sales in one or more of its restaurants and make its brand less valuable. The Company’s success depends, in large part, upon the popularity of its menu offerings. Negative publicity resulting from poor food quality, illness, injury or other health concerns (including e-coli, Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (mad cow disease), Hepatitis A and foot and mouth disease), whether related to one of the Company’s restaurants or to the beef or seafood industries in general, or operating problems related to one or more restaurants, could make the Company’s menu offerings less appealing to consumers and reduce demand in its restaurants. In addition, any other shifts in consumer preferences away from the kinds of food the Company offers, particularly beef and seafood, whether because of dietary or other health concerns or otherwise, would make its restaurants less appealing and adversely affect revenues. In addition, some types of seafood have been subject to adverse publicity due to certain levels of contamination at their source, which can adversely affect both supply and market demand. The Company’s Mitchell’s restaurants maintain an in-house inspection program for our seafood purchases and, in the past, have 13 Table of Contents not experienced any detriment from contaminated seafood. However, in the future seafood contamination or inadequate supplies of seafood could have a significant and materially adverse effect on the Company’s operating results and profitability. The Company may not be able to compete successfully with other restaurants, which could reduce its revenues. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive with respect to price, service, location, food quality, atmosphere and overall dining experience. The Company’s competitors include a large and diverse group of well-recognized fine dining and upscale casual restaurant chains, including fine dining steakhouse and seafood chains as well as restaurants owned by independent local operators. Some of the Company’s competitors may have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources, and may be better established in the markets where its restaurants are or may be located. If the Company cannot compete effectively in one or more of its markets, the Company may be unable to maintain recent levels of comparable restaurant sales growth and/or may be required to close existing restaurants. If the Company’s vendors or distributors do not deliver food and beverages in a timely fashion it may experience short-term supply shortages and/or increased food and beverage costs. The Company’s ability to maintain consistent quality throughout company-owned restaurants depends in part upon its ability to purchase USDA Prime and Choice grade beef, seafood and other food products in accordance with its rigid specifications. During fiscal 2007, the Company purchased more than 82% of the beef it used in company-owned restaurants from one vendor, New City Packing Company, Inc., with which the Company has no long-term contractual arrangement. In addition, the Company currently has a long-term arrangement with a distributor, Commissary Operations, Inc., which purchases products for it from various suppliers, and through which 42 of its company-owned restaurants receive a significant portion of their food supplies. If these or other vendors or distributors cease doing business with the Company, it could experience short-term supply shortages in certain company-owned restaurants and could be required to purchase supplies at higher prices until the Company is able to secure an alternative supply source. Any delay the Company experiences in replacing vendors or distributors on acceptable terms could increase food costs or, in extreme cases, require it to temporarily remove items from the menu of one or more restaurants. Increases in the prices of, or reductions in the availability of, any of our core food products could reduce the Company’s operating margins and revenues. The Company purchases large quantities of beef, particularly USDA Prime grade beef, which is subject to extreme price fluctuations due to seasonal shifts, climate conditions, industry demand and other factors. The Company’s beef costs represented approximately 51.3% of its food and beverage costs during fiscal 2007 and the Company historically has not had any long-term contractual arrangements, nor does it use future contracts or other financial risk management strategies to reduce exposure to potential price fluctuations. For fiscal 2008, the Company expects to enter into contracts with beef suppliers to establish set pricing on a portion of its anticipated beef purchases. The market for USDA Prime grade beef is particularly volatile. For example, in late 2003, increased demand, together with the impact of supply rationalization during late 2001 and 2002, resulted in shortages of USDA Prime grade beef, requiring the Company to pay significantly higher prices for the USDA Prime grade beef it purchased. If prices for the types of beef the Company uses in its restaurants increase in the future and it chooses not to pass, or cannot pass, these increases on to its guests, the Company’s operating margins would decrease. If certain kinds of beef become unavailable for the Company to purchase, its revenues would decrease as well. In the recent past, certain types of seafood have experienced fluctuations in availability. Seafood is also subject to fluctuations in price based on availability, which is often seasonal. If certain types of seafood are unavailable, or if our costs increase, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents Labor shortages or increases in labor costs could slow the Company’s growth or harm its business. The Company’s success depends in part upon its ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain employees with the qualifications to succeed in its industry and the motivation to apply the Company’s core service philosophy, including regional operational managers, restaurant general managers and chefs. If the Company is unable to continue to recruit and retain sufficiently qualified individuals, its business and growth could be adversely affected. Competition for these employees could require the Company to pay higher wages, which could result in higher labor costs. In addition, the Company has a substantial number of hourly employees who are paid wage rates at or based on the federal or state minimum wage and who rely on tips as a large portion of their income. Increases in the minimum wage or decreases in allowable tip credits would increase the Company’s labor costs. The Company may be unable to increase its prices in order to pass these increased labor costs on to its guests, in which case its margins would be negatively affected. Regulations affecting the operation of the Company’s restaurants could increase operating costs and restrict growth. Each of the Company’s restaurants must obtain licenses from regulatory authorities allowing it to sell liquor, beer and wine, and each restaurant must obtain a food service license from local health authorities. Each restaurant’s liquor license must be renewed annually and may be revoked at any time for cause, including violation by the Company or its employees of any laws and regulations relating to the minimum drinking age, advertising, wholesale purchasing and inventory control. In certain states, including states where the Company has a large number of restaurants or where it plans to open restaurants in the near term, the number of liquor licenses available is limited and licenses are traded at market prices. If the Company is unable to maintain existing licenses, or if it chooses to open a restaurant in those states, the cost of a new license could be significant. Obtaining and maintaining licenses is an important component of each of the Company’s restaurant’s operations, and the failure to obtain or maintain food and liquor licenses and other required licenses, permits and approvals would materially adversely impact existing restaurants or the Company’s growth strategy. The Company is also subject to a variety of federal and state labor laws, such as minimum wage and overtime pay requirements, unemployment tax rates, workers’ compensation rates and citizenship requirements. Government-mandated increases in minimum wages, overtime pay, paid leaves of absence and mandated health benefits, or increased tax reporting and tax payment requirements for employees who receive gratuities, or a reduction in the number of states that allow tips to be credited toward minimum wage requirements could increase the Company’s labor costs and reduce its operating margins. In addition, the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment. Although the Company’s restaurants are designed to be accessible to the disabled, it could be required to make modifications to its restaurants to provide service to, or make reasonable accommodations for, disabled persons. The Company’s strategy to open additional company-owned and franchisee-owned restaurants subjects it to extensive government regulation, compliance which might increase its investment costs and restrict its growth. The Company is subject to the rules and regulations of the FTC, and various state laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises. The FTC requires that the Company furnish to prospective franchisees a franchise offering circular containing prescribed information and can restrict its ability to sell franchises. A number of states also regulate the sale of franchises and require the obtaining of a permit and/or registration of the franchise offering circular with state authorities and the delivery of the franchise offering circular to prospective franchisees. Noncompliance with those laws could result in governmental enforcement actions seeking a civil or criminal penalty, rescission of a franchise, and loss of the Company’s ability to offer and sell franchises in a state, or a private lawsuit seeking rescission, damages and legal fees, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company’s development and construction of additional restaurants must comply with applicable zoning, land use and environmental regulations. More stringent and varied requirements of local government 15 Table of Contents bodies with respect to zoning, land use and environmental factors could delay construction of new restaurants and add to their cost in the future which could adversely affect the Company’s future operating results. In addition, difficulties or failure in obtaining the required licenses and approvals could delay, or result in its decision to cancel, the opening of new restaurants. The Company’s franchisees could take actions that harm its reputation and reduce its royalty revenues. The Company does not exercise control over the day-to-day operations of its franchisee-owned restaurants. While the Company attempts to ensure that franchisee-owned restaurants maintain the same high operating standards that it demands of company-owned restaurants, one or more of these restaurants may fail to maintain these standards. Any operational shortcomings of the Company’s franchisee-owned restaurants are likely to be attributed to its system-wide operations and could adversely affect its reputation and damage its brand as well as have a direct negative impact on the royalty income it receives from those restaurants. You should not rely on past increases in the Company’s average unit volumes or its comparable restaurant sales as an indication of future operating results, because they may fluctuate significantly, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of its stock. For a number of reasons, including but not limited to, those described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company’s operating results, revenues and expenses have in the past varied and may in the future vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year. These fluctuations could have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s common stock. A number of factors historically have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, the Company’s average unit volumes and/or comparable restaurant sales, including, among other factors: • the Company’s ability to execute its business strategy effectively; • initial sales performance by new restaurants; • levels of competition in one or more of its markets; • consumer trends impacting levels of beef and seafood consumption; and • general economic conditions. The Company’s average unit volumes and comparable restaurant sales may not increase at rates achieved over recent periods. Changes in its average unit volumes and comparable restaurant sales could cause the price of the Company’s common stock to fluctuate substantially. The Company’s failure to enforce its service marks or other proprietary rights could adversely affect its competitive position or the value of its brands. The Company owns certain common law service mark rights and a number of federal and international service mark registrations, most importantly the Ruth’s Chris Steak House, Mitchell’s and Cameron’s names and logos, copyrights relating to text and print uses, and other proprietary intellectual property rights. The Company believes that its service marks, copyrights and other proprietary rights are important to its success and competitive position. Protective actions the Company takes with respect to these rights may fail to prevent unauthorized usage or imitation by others, which could harm the Company’s reputation, brand or competitive position and, if the Company commences litigation to enforce its rights, cause us to incur significant legal expenses. Contracts with certain of the Company’s franchisees limit its ability to grow the Ruth’s Chris brand in attractive markets. The Company has granted exclusive development rights for some of the United States’ largest markets, including Atlanta, Philadelphia and Las Vegas, to franchisees. The terms of the Company’s agreements with 16 Table of Contents these franchisees prevent the Company from opening company-owned restaurants in these markets. While the Company is currently working with these franchisees in order to create additional opportunities for growth, it may be unable to open additional company-owned or franchisee-owned restaurants in these markets. The Company’s failure to grow within these large markets could harm its long-term competitive position in these markets and/or prevent it from sustaining its growth. In addition, the Company’s failure to grow the Ruth’s Chris brand in these markets by opening additional restaurants could limit the visibility of its brand in these large markets, resulting in lower guest traffic in existing restaurants in these markets. Litigation concerning food quality, health and other issues could require the Company to incur additional liabilities and/or cause guests to avoid its restaurants. Occasionally, the Company’s guests file complaints or lawsuits against it alleging that the Company is responsible for some illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to its restaurants. The Company is also subject to a variety of other claims arising in the ordinary course of its business, including personal injury claims, contract claims, claims from franchisees and claims alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters. In addition, the Company could become subject to class action lawsuits related to these matters in the future. For example, in fiscal 2005 the Company settled a class-action claim based on violation of wage and hour laws in California. The restaurant industry has also been subject to a growing number of claims that the menus and actions of restaurant chains have led to the obesity of certain of their guests. In addition, the Company is subject to “dram shop” statutes. These statutes generally allow a person injured by an intoxicated person to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Recent litigation against restaurant chains has resulted in significant judgments, including punitive damages, under dram shop statutes. Regardless of whether any claims against the Company are valid or whether it is liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from the Company’s operations and hurt its performance. A judgment significantly in excess of the Company’s insurance coverage for any claims would materially adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. Adverse publicity resulting from these claims may negatively impact revenues at one or more of the Company’s restaurants. Continued expansion in the segment of the restaurant industry in which the Company operates could prevent the Company from realizing anticipated benefits from new restaurant growth or continued growth in comparable restaurant sales. The Company’s competitors have opened many upscale steakhouses and seafood restaurants in recent years, and a key element of its strategy is to continue to accelerate the opening of new company-owned and franchisee-owned restaurants in both new and existing markets. If the Company overestimates demand for its restaurants or underestimates the popularity of competitors’ restaurants in these markets, the Company may be unable to realize anticipated revenues from these new restaurants. Similarly, if one or more of its competitors open new restaurants in any of these new markets, or in markets where the Company already has an established presence, sales in its restaurants may be lower than it expects. Any unanticipated slowdown in demand in any of its restaurants due to this industry growth could reduce the Company’s average unit volumes and comparable restaurant sales, as well as its franchisee royalty revenues. The terms of the Company’s senior credit agreement may restrict its ability to operate its business and to pursue its business strategies. The Company’s senior credit agreement contains, and any agreements governing future indebtedness would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on it. The Company’s senior credit agreement limits its ability, among other things, to: • pay dividends or purchase stock and other restricted payments to shareholders; • borrow money or issue guarantees; • make investments; 17 Table of Contents • use assets as security in other transactions; • sell assets or merge with or into other companies; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • sell stock in its subsidiaries; and • create or permit restrictions on its subsidiaries’ ability to make payments to us. The Company’s ability to engage in these types of transactions is limited even if it believes that a specific transaction would contribute to its future growth or improve its operating results. The Company’s senior credit agreement also requires it to achieve specified financial and operating results and maintain compliance with certain financial ratios. The Company’s ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events outside of its control. Any non-compliance would result in a default under its senior credit agreement and could result in its lenders declaring the Company’s senior debt immediately due and payable, which would have a material adverse effect on its ability to operate as a going concern. Approximately 17.7% of the Company’s voting power is controlled by one principal stockholder whose interests may conflict with those of its other stockholders. Affiliates of Madison Dearborn hold approximately 17.7% of the Company’s voting power. As a result of this ownership, as well as the fact that a representative of Madison Dearborn serves on the Company’s board of directors, Madison Dearborn has significant influence in the consideration of all matters requiring the approval of its stockholders and/or its board of directors. These matters include the election of directors, the adoption of amendments to the Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and approval of mergers or sales of substantially all of its assets. This influence may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company or discouraging others from making tender offers for its shares, which could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. So long as affiliates of Madison Dearborn continue to own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock and a representative of Madison Dearborn continues to serve on its board of directors, they will continue to be able to influence the Company’s decisions and may pursue corporate actions that conflict with the interests of its other stockholders. The Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation also provides that affiliates of Madison Dearborn and their representatives are not required to offer any corporate opportunity of which they become aware to the Company and therefore they could take any such opportunity for themselves or offer it to other companies in which they have an investment. The Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation, its by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring it and may prevent attempts by its stockholders to replace or remove its current management. Provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”), the Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation and its by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that the Company’s stockholders may consider favorable. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by its stockholders to replace or remove the Company’s current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace or remove its board of directors. Such provisions in the Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws include: • limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend its charter documents, including stockholder supermajority voting requirements; • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings after such time as the existing stockholders own less than a majority of its common stock; • advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors and for stockholder proposals; and 18 Table of Contents • the authority of its board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 10,150,000 shares of preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine and to issue additional shares of its common stock. The Company is also afforded the protections of Section 203 of the DGCL, which prevents it from engaging in a business combination with a person who acquires at least 15% of its common stock for a period of three years from the date such person acquired such common stock, unless board or stockholder approval is obtained. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 