risk factors, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock or other securities. Risks Related to Our Sale of Assets to Zoll We have entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement with Zoll, whereby substantially all of our assets will be sold, and we will cease our operations. If we are not able to complete the Asset Sale, we expect that our limited financial resources will require that we immediately raise funds or cease operations. Although we expect to complete the Asset Sale in the second quarter of 2009, it is possible that the Asset Sale will not be consummated for various reasons. Conditions to closing, which must be satisfied, include obtaining third party consents under certain contracts to transition them to Zoll, delivering certain minimum amounts of $3 million of finished inventory Zoll ordered from us at cost, and certain other conditions. If these conditions are not satisfied by June 30, 2009, Zoll may elect not to complete the Asset Sale. If these or other reasons cause the Asset Sale to not be completed, then we will not have sufficient financial resources to continue to operate independently, and we would need to immediately raise funds or cease operations and liquidate. Raising capital in the current market is extremely challenging, and if we are unable to do so, we expect that our cash resources would be insufficient to pay off our creditors, and that our stockholders would likely not receive any proceeds for their investment. If we were able to raise funds, the terms of such a financing would likely be extremely dilutive to the ownership of our existing investors We will incur significant costs in connection with the Asset Sale which may decrease cash available for distribution to stockholders. We currently expect to incur approximately $1.5 million of costs related to the Asset Sale. These expenses include, but are not limited to, financial advisory, legal and accounting fees and expenses, employee expenses, filing fees, printing expenses, and other related charges. We may also incur additional unanticipated expenses in connection with the Asset Sale. Approximately $0.65 million of the costs related to the Asset Sale, such as legal, financial advisory and accounting fees, will be incurred regardless of whether the Asset Sale is completed. These expenses are estimates and if they are greater than anticipated, that will decrease the remaining cash available for eventual distribution to stockholders in connection with our dissolution and liquidation. We cannot be certain of the amount, if any, of the distribution to our stockholders under the Plan of Dissolution. Liquidation and dissolution may not create value to our stockholders or result in any remaining capital for distribution to our stockholders. Our current estimate is that there will be $7.6 million in the aggregate, or $0.34 per share of our common stock, available for distribution over time to our stockholders. However, we cannot be certain of the precise amount available for distribution to our stockholders pursuant to the Plan of Dissolution. Claims, liabilities and expenses from operations (including, but not limited to, operating costs such as salaries, directors’ fees, directors’ and officers’ insurance, payroll and local taxes, legal and accounting fees and miscellaneous office expenses) will continue to be incurred as we seek to close the Asset Sale and wind down operations in dissolution. If claims, liabilities and expenses are greater than expected, that will reduce the amount available for distribution to our stockholders. 7 Distribution of assets, if any, to our stockholders could be delayed. Subject to the consummation of the Asset Sale, we anticipate that an initial distribution of liquidation proceeds, if any, will be made to our stockholders within 90 days after the closing of the Asset Sale. As we liquidate our remaining assets and pay off our outstanding liabilities, including our headquarters lease, we will distribute additional liquidation proceeds, if any, to our stockholders as the Board deems appropriate. The negotiations regarding the termination of our headquarters lease may cause a delay to distribution of additional liquidation proceeds. Additionally, a creditor could seek an injunction against our making of distributions to our stockholders on the ground that the amounts to be distributed were needed to provide for the payment of our liabilities and expenses. Any action of this type could delay or substantially diminish the amount available for distribution to our stockholders. Stockholders may be liable to our creditors for part or all of the amount received from us if reserves are inadequate. We intend to establish a contingency reserve designed to satisfy any additional claims and obligations that may arise. Any contingency reserve may not be adequate to cover all of our claims and obligations. Under Delaware law, if we fail to create an adequate contingency reserve for payment of our claims and obligations during the three-year period after we file a certificate of dissolution with the Secretary of State of Delaware, each stockholder could be held liable for payment to our creditors of such stockholder’s pro rata share of amounts owed to creditors in excess of the contingency reserve. The liability of any stockholder would be limited to the amounts previously received from us by such stockholder in our dissolution. Accordingly, in such event, a stockholder could be required to return part or all of the distributions previously made to such stockholder, and a stockholder could receive nothing from us under our Plan of Dissolution. Moreover, if a stockholder has paid taxes on amounts previously received, a repayment of all or a portion of such amount could result in a situation in which a stockholder may incur a net tax cost if the repayment of the amount previously distributed may not cause a commensurate reduction in taxes payable in an amount equal to the amount of the taxes paid on amounts previously distributed. Stockholders will not be able to buy or sell shares of our common stock after we dissolve. We intend to discontinue trading of our stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market on, or as soon as possible after, the date on which we file our certificate of dissolution with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware. This filing is expected to occur on or about 20 days after the mailing of our Information Statement to stockholders. After this time, there will be no further trading of our stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market or otherwise and we will not record any further transfers of our stock on our books except by will, intestate succession, or operation of law. Therefore, shares of our stock will likely not be freely transferable nor issuable upon exercise of outstanding options after the date of filing of a certificate of dissolution with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware. All liquidating distributions from us after the date of filing of our certificate of dissolution with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware will be made to our stockholders pro rata according to their respective holdings of stock as of the date of filing of the certificate of dissolution. We intend to cease filing reports with the SEC. We are currently obligated to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. In order to eliminate expenses we incur to comply with these requirements, and because our securities will no longer be traded, we intend to cease filing with the SEC, including annual and quarterly reports under the Exchange Act as soon as permissable under SEC rules after the filing of our certificate of dissolution with the Secretary of State of Delaware. Risks Related to Our Business We have not yet been able to finance our operations with the cash generated from our business. If the Asset Sale is not consummated and we do not generate cash sufficient to finance our operations, we will need additional financing to continue our growth. We have not yet generated sufficient cash from operations to finance our business. Our financial statements have been prepared assuming that we would continue as a going concern. Operations to date have been financed principally through the private placement of equity securities, debt securities convertible to equity, and the cash we acquired in the Ithaka merger. We have not reported an operating profit for any year since our inception. From our inception through December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $116.9 million, and at December 31, 2008 had cash and cash equivalents of $5.6 million to finance operations. We expect to incur net losses for the foreseeable future. These losses may be substantial and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. These factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, which is why we are completing the Asset Sale. 8 Our cash and cash equivalents on hand, and our projected cash flows, are not sufficient to take us to cash flow positive based on our current business plan. If we do not close the Asset Sale and were to try to continue operations, we will need additional debt or equity financing no later than the second quarter of 2009. Prior to agreeing to the Asset Sale, we were pursuing efforts to secure such funding but were not successful. The current market for debt and equity financing is challenging and the additional financing that we require may not be available at all or, if available, may be on terms unfavorable to us and our stockholders, and would substantially dilute current ownership interests. Our loan with GE Capital had an outstanding balance of $3.7 million as of December 31, 2008, and requires that we make monthly principal payments of $266,667, until the loan is repaid in full in February 2010. Our agreements with GE Capital provide GE Capital with a lien on all of our principal assets other than intellectual property. If we default on a payment due to GE Capital, and the default is not waived, GE Capital can foreclose on our assets, including seizing our cash and investments accounts. If GE Capital were to seize our cash and investments accounts or otherwise foreclose on our assets, it would materially harm our business, and could force us to cease operations, declare bankruptcy, or both. We are currently in compliance with the covenants of our debt facility. However, if we do not close the Asset Sale and are unsuccessful in raising additional funds and we default on a payment to GE Capital, GE Capital could seize our remaining cash and investments. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in raising additional funds. Recent turmoil in the credit markets and the financial services industry may negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Recently, the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government. These conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause U.S. and foreign businesses to slow spending on our products and services, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. Furthermore, during challenging economic times our customers may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. In addition, the recent economic crisis could also adversely impact our suppliers’ ability to provide us with materials and components, either of which may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments and such losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same loss rates that we have in the past, especially given the current turmoil of the worldwide economy. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery. If the economy or markets in which we operate do not continue at their present levels, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, the combination of our lengthy sales cycle coupled with challenging macroeconomic conditions could have a combined negative impact on the results of our operations. The long sales cycle for our systems may cause revenue and operating results to vary significantly quarter to quarter and year to year. The decision to purchase our CoolGard and Thermogard systems and catheters often involves a significant commitment of resources and a lengthy evaluation process. We need to convince hospitals and critical care providers that our products are more effective than, and provide advantages over, competing temperature management products. Hospital purchases often involve a committee decision requiring approval of multiple decision makers including physicians, nurses and administrators. As a result, our sales process varies by hospital and country. In addition, a hospital typically uses funds from its capital equipment budget to purchase our CoolGard and Thermogard systems. Budget constraints and the need for multiple approvals within the hospital may delay the purchase decision for our products. This can result in a lengthy sales process, sometimes as long as six months to a year. The long sales cycle for our system may cause our revenue and operating results to vary significantly quarter to quarter and year to year. From time to time, we have experienced unit sales significantly lower than our prior forecasts, due primarily to longer sales cycles as customers evaluate a variety of alternative products to manage patient temperature, in addition to our products. 9 We depend on several large customers for our international sales, and a loss of or decline in sales to such customers may significantly reduce our revenue. A significant portion of our sales in Europe are to a few key distributors. In 2006, Euromed and Fuchs Medical accounted for 24% and 4%, respectively, of our revenue. In 2007, Elan accounted for 15% of our revenue and Euromed and Fuchs Medical each accounted for 3%, respectively, of our revenue. In 2008, Elan accounted for 23% of our net revenues. From time to time, other international distributors may also account for a large portion of our revenue. Our contract with Euromed covered Austria and Germany. We decided to terminate our contract with Euromed effective May 2007, in order to enter into a new contract with Elan for Austria and Germany (which had previously acted as Euromed’s subdistributor of our products in Germany). Our contracts with Elan and other international distributors do not assure us significant minimum purchase volume. If a contract with a distributor is terminated for cause or by us for convenience, the distributor will have no obligation to purchase products from us. Our contracts with future distributors will typically have similar terms, and will not assure us of long-term minimum purchase volumes. The loss of, or any sudden decline in business from, any significant distributor, likely would lead to a significant decline in our revenue. We may not be able to retain this or other large customers or any other significant distributor. If we were to lose any large distributor, it may take significant time to replace the distributor and the revenue generated by them, and we may not ultimately be able to do so. Our ability to market our CoolGard and Thermogard systems and accompanying disposable catheters in the United States is limited to fever control in neuro-intensive care patients and temperature management in cardiac and neuro surgery patients. If we want to expand our marketing claims to cardiac arrest or other uses, we will need to obtain additional FDA clearances or approvals, which may be expensive and time-consuming and may not be successful. In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, has only cleared our CoolGard and Thermogard systems for use with our Cool Line catheter for fever reduction, as an adjunct to other antipyretic therapy, in intubated and sedated patients with cerebral infarction and intracerebral hemorrhage who require access to central venous circulation. Our CoolGard and Thermogard systems used with our Icy or Fortius catheter have been cleared in the United States only for use in cardiac surgery patients to achieve and maintain normothermia during surgery and in recovery and intensive care, and to induce, maintain and reverse mild hypothermia in neuro surgery patients in surgery and in recovery and intensive care. These clearances restrict our ability to market our products in the United States for treatment outside these specific cleared indications. In 2004, we submitted a 510(k) notification to the FDA to have our products cleared for cardiac arrest. In March 2005, the FDA convened a meeting of the Circulatory System Devices Panel to consider the data submitted in the 510(k) notification. Following that meeting in 2005, we withdrew our request for cardiac arrest clearance because the FDA stated that it would require additional safety and efficacy data from a randomized, controlled human clinical trial. We decided not to conduct such a trial at that time because we wanted to focus on marketing our products for their cleared indications. Future trials may be expensive and time-consuming, and we cannot assure you that the FDA will ultimately grant our clearance or approval for such indications. We may lose significant revenue and incur significant liability if it is determined under FDA regulations that we are promoting off-label use of our products. If we do not obtain FDA clearance for cardiac arrest, or other indications, we may be at risk for liabilities and lost revenue as a result of off label use. A significant portion of our current revenue is, and anticipated future revenue increasingly will be, derived from the sale of our products to treat cardiac arrest. We have regulatory clearances to sell our products in Europe, Canada and in other countries outside the United States to treat cardiac arrest, but we do not have FDA clearance to sell our products in the United States to treat cardiac arrest. In the United States, the use of our products to treat cardiac arrest is and will be considered off-label use unless and until we receive regulatory clearance for use of our systems and catheters to treat cardiac arrest patients. 10 We do not track how physicians use our products after they are purchased, and cannot identify what percentage of our revenues is derived from off-label use. We are aware, however, that physicians in the United States are using our products off-label to treat cardiac arrest, and expect this use to increase. We believe this is due in large part to the 2006 American Heart Association recommendation that cooling be used to treat cardiac arrest. We have received increasing inquiries from U.S. physicians interested in using our products to treat cardiac arrest, in addition to cleared indications. In addition, in order to gather general market data and help us work with the FDA to design a clinical trial for cardiac arrest, in 2006 our field personnel began to ask hospitals why they are interested in purchasing our products. Of approximately 300 U.S. hospitals queried, over half indicated they are interested in cooling cardiac arrest patients, in addition to our cleared indications. We have also seen a similar level of interest in Europe, where our products are cleared for cardiac arrest. Based on these interest levels, we estimate it is possible that between 20% and 40% of our current U.S. revenues (or between 10% and 20% of our worldwide revenues) could be derived from off-label use. We also estimate that over time up to 50% of our U.S. revenues (or approximately 25% of our worldwide revenues) could be derived from purchases of our products to treat cardiac arrest. Under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other laws, we are prohibited from promoting our products for off-label uses. This means that we may not make claims about the safety or effectiveness of our systems and catheters for the treatment of cardiac arrest patients, and may not proactively discuss or provide information on the use of our products for the treatment of cardiac arrest patients, with very limited exceptions. Physicians, however, may lawfully choose to purchase our products and use them off-label. For example, we have clearance to sell our products to induce, maintain and reverse hypothermia in neurosurgery patients. A physician could use the same product to induce, maintain and reverse hypothermia in cardiac arrest patients, which would be an off-label use. The FDA and other regulatory agencies actively enforce regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for off-label uses. A company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies, and even criminal sanctions. Due to these constraints, our sales and marketing efforts focus only on cleared indications for its products. When a hospital or physician expresses interest in potential off-label use, our field personnel (sales representatives and clinical specialists) have been trained to limit their discussion or training of our products only to their general attributes for cooling and warming of the patient, and the on-label indications. Our clinical applications specialists work in hospitals to instruct physicians and nurses on how to use our CoolGard and Thermogard systems, and how to run the system once our catheter has been inserted into the patient. The specialists do not, however, select which patients receive treatment or assist in the insertion of the catheter, both of which are done by the physician. The specialists thus do not determine the type of treatment (i.e., on-label or off-label) for which our products are used, and products are used in the same manner whether the patient is receiving an on- or off-label treatment. We do, upon request, disseminate information relating to the use of our products for off-label uses such as cardiac arrest. The FDA Modernization Act permits companies to respond in a non-promotional manner to unsolicited requests from doctors and hospitals for off label-information. We respond to such requests in a manner we believe is permitted under the FDA Modernization Act, by providing copies of and citations to articles that discuss off-label uses. We do not believe any of our activities constitute promotion of off-label use. Should the FDA determine, however, that our activities constitute promotion of off-label use, the FDA could bring action to prevent us from distributing our products within the United States for the off-label use, could impose fines and penalties on us and our executives, and could prohibit us from participating in government healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. We could be required to substantially change our sales, promotion and educational activities. If we are prevented from distributing our products in the United States to treat cardiac arrest, we could lose an estimated 10% and 20% of our current revenues, and up to 25% based on future estimates. FDA actions concerning the promotion of off-label uses are typically expensive, disruptive and burdensome, and generate negative publicity. As a result, such an action could affect our reputation generally and interfere with our ability to sell our products even for approved uses. This would have an even greater negative impact on our sales and financial condition, and may require us to raise additional capital, which may not be available, or, if available may be dilutive to existing shareholders. 11 We face uncertainty related to pricing, reimbursement and health care reform, which could reduce our revenue. In addition, if we are found to be marketing our products for off-label uses, we can be barred from federal and state reimbursement programs, which could jeopardize all of our U.S. sales. Sales of our products depend in part on the availability of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors such as government insurance programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers, health maintenance organizations and other health care related organizations. Both the federal and state governments in the United States, and foreign governments, continue to propose and pass new legislation affecting coverage and reimbursement policies, which are designed to contain or reduce the cost of health care. There may be future changes that result in reductions in current coverage and reimbursement levels for our products, and we cannot predict the scope of any future changes or the impact that those changes would have on our operations. Adoption of our products by the medical community in the United States may be limited if doctors and hospitals do not receive full reimbursement for our products. Currently, existing procedure codes only cover reimbursement for a portion of the cost of our products. We do not have a specific Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, reimbursement code for our products in the United States. The use of our product is paid for via two mechanisms. It is expensed within general Diagnosis Related Groups (DRG) and there is a small remuneration provided to the physician for a central line insertion. All our catheters have central line features. There are no disease specific billing codes that apply to the use of our product in the off label cardiac arrest indication. Physicians and hospitals have been using reimbursement codes related to central venous catheters or other critical care codes for our products, which provide only partial reimbursement. Current cost control initiatives may decrease coverage and payment levels for existing and future products and, in turn, the price that we can charge for any existing product or those that we develop or market in the future. For example, the Medicare Modernization Act revised the Medicare payment methodology for many drugs covered under Medicare. We cannot predict the full impact of the new payment methodologies on our business. We are also impacted by efforts by private third-party payors to control costs. We are unable to predict all changes to the coverage or reimbursement methodologies that will be employed by private or government payors. Any denial of private or government payor coverage or inadequate reimbursement for procedures performed using our products could harm our business and reduce our revenue. If we are found by the FDA or other federal or state authorities to be marketing our products for off-label uses, we may be temporarily or permanently barred from participating in government sponsored healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. We estimate that up to 25% of our current revenues may come from Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement to our customers. However, if we are barred from participating in such programs, hospitals may refuse to purchase our products altogether. As a result, such a ban from participating in these programs could jeopardize all of our U.S. sales. The FDA has required that we place a warning label on our Cool Line catheter and that we collect safety data on the Cool Line. If the FDA concludes that the Cool Line catheters pose a statistically significant safety risk, it could require that we conduct additional clinical studies or recall the Cool Line in the United States, which could materially impact the sales and marketability of our Cool Line Products in the United States. We obtained 510(k) clearances for the current indications for which we market our products. However, the FDA may seek to limit or revoke our clearances if safety or effectiveness problems develop. In 2002, we completed a 296-patient randomized, controlled clinical trial in support of our initial regulatory submission to the FDA. Based on the trial results, in August 2003, the FDA granted us 510(k) clearance for our CoolGard system and Cool Line catheter for treatment of fever reduction in patients with cerebral infarction and intracerebral hemorrhage. As a result of higher mortality rates in the clinical trial among patients treated for fever reduction following subarachnoid hemorrhage and primary traumatic brain injury, the FDA did not clear the Cool Line for these two indications. In addition, the FDA required that we place a warning label on our Cool Line catheter which states that the Cool Line is not cleared for treatment of these two indications, and discloses the mortality data associated with the two cleared and two non-cleared indications. The FDA also required that we conduct a post market surveillance, or PMS, study of 200 patients treated with our Cool Line versus 200 patients from the same hospitals treated with conventional fever control therapies. Since the study began, we have submitted several quarterly and annual reports to the FDA on the progress of the PMS study. Currently, we have reported information regarding 208 patients enrolled in the study, which we believed showed good safety results. However, if these results or subsequent PMS safety data ultimately cause the FDA to conclude that our Cool Line catheters pose a statistically significant safety risk, the FDA could require that we conduct additional clinical studies or recall the Cool Line in the United States. Either of these potential FDA actions could materially impact the sales and marketability of our Cool Line products in the United States. 12 We have a limited history of commercial sales that makes it difficult to predict future performance and could impair our ability to grow revenue or achieve or maintain profitability. We were incorporated in December 1991, and recapitalized and reorganized our operations and business in November 1998 to focus on intravascular temperature management. We began very limited sales of earlier versions of our products in Europe in December 2000 and began a more significant international sales launch of our current products in February 2004, when we started building a current network of independent distributors. We began sales in the United States in April 2004 through our own direct sales force. Consequently, we have a limited history of commercial sales of our products, which hinders us from accurately predicting sales and managing our inventory levels. Our inability to forecast future revenue or estimated life cycles of products may result in inventory-related charges that would negatively affect our gross margins and results of operations. If we are unable to achieve continued market penetration with conventional temperature management products, we will be unable to compete effectively. We principally compete with companies that sell conventional temperature management products such as cooling and warming blankets, ice packs and other external devices. We also compete against companies with newer surface temperature management products, such as Medivance, Inc., a privately held company that sells self-regulating cooling pads. Additionally, we compete with companies that have developed other intravascular approaches that are either pre-commercialization or in early stages of commercialization. Competition with these companies could result in price-cutting, reduced profit margins and loss of market share. We may also face competition from manufacturers of pharmaceuticals and other products that have not yet been developed. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to distinguish our products and includes such factors as: ● product performance; ● development of successful distribution channels, both domestically and internationally; ● success and timing of new product development and introductions; ● intellectual property protection; and ● quality of customer support. Cooling and warming blankets are more widely used and less expensive than our products. Newer surface cooling pads have been on the market for approximately the same amount of time as our products and are currently offered at prices similar to those offered for our products. If our potential customers have already purchased competing products, they may feel the need to recoup the cost of those products before they consider purchasing our products, even if they believe our products are superior. If we are unable to achieve continued market penetration, we will be unable to compete effectively. In addition, some of our current and potential competitors may have significantly greater financial, research and development, manufacturing and sales and marketing resources than we do. Our competitors could use their greater financial resources to acquire other companies to gain enhanced name and brand recognition and market share, as well as new technologies or products that could effectively compete with our products. In addition, competitors that market surface cooling and warming blankets and pads often do so on the basis that such devices are less invasive than our catheters, which must be placed in a vein by a surgeon or other specialist. We strive to educate customers on the benefits of our superior effectiveness at regulating patient temperature, ease of patient access compared to surface devices, and the fact that a significant majority of patients eligible for our catheters would already be receiving a similar central venous catheter. However, in situations where a patient might not ordinarily receive a central venous catheter, or in situations where a standard catheter may be indicated but caregivers do not want to try our relatively newer catheter, we may not be able to compete effectively against less invasive temperature management products. 13 Our products are subject to product defects, recalls or failures, which could harm our financial results. In manufacturing our products, we depend on third parties to supply various components. Many of these components require a significant degree of technical expertise to produce. Complex medical devices, such as our CoolGard and Thermogard systems, can experience performance problems in the field that require corrective action. If our suppliers fail to produce components to our specifications, or if the suppliers or we use defective materials or poor workmanship in the manufacturing process, the reliability and performance of our products will be compromised. We cannot assure you that our testing procedures will adequately identify all defects in our products or that component failures, manufacturing errors, or inadequate labeling, which could result in an unsafe condition or injury to the operator or the patient, will not occur. If any defects occur, we may incur warranty or repair costs, be subject to claims for damages related to product defects, be required to recall products, or experience manufacturing, shipping or other delays or interruptions as a result of these defects. Any recall would divert management attention and financial resources and could expose us to product liability or other claims, which may not be adequately covered by insurance, and may harm our reputation with customers. A recall involving our CoolGard or Thermogard systems could be particularly harmful to our business and financial results, because our CoolGard and Thermogard systems are necessary components that allow our catheters to work. Our failure to maintain Nasdaq listing requirements could cause our common stock to be delisted. We intend to delist and remove our stock from trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market immediately upon the closing of the Asset Sale. However, if the Asset Sale is not consummated and we elect to remain publicly traded, our stock could face the risk of being delisted. If our common stock closes below $1.00 for thirty consecutive trading days, as occurred in the fourth quarter of 2008, we could be subject to Nasdaq delisting procedures if such noncompliance is not rectified within 180 calendar days, which would require our stock price to be $1.00 or more for at least 10 consecutive trading days. In the event we do not re-establish compliance within such 180 day period, we may be granted an additional 180 calendar days to re-establish compliance provided we at least satisfy the initial listing criteria of the Nasdaq Capital Market other than the minimum bid price requirement as of the expiration of the initial 180-day period. Given the current extraordinary market conditions, NASDAQ suspended the bid price and market value of publicly held shares requirements through Monday April 20, 2009. On October 16, 2008 and as extended on December 18, 2008, NASDAQ filed an immediately effective rule change with the SEC, such that companies will not be cited for any new concerns related to bid price or market value of publicly held shares deficiencies. The duration of this relief is uncertain, however, and if minimum trading pricing are reinstated, and we do not meet them, we may be delisted from trading. The loss of our Nasdaq listing would likely reduce trading activity in our common stock and make it more difficult for stockholders to sell their shares, and the threat of such a result could have a negative or dampening effect on our trading activity until such matter is resolved. Any decreased trading activity and added difficulty in trading our stock could have a negative impact on our stock price. 14 Risks Related to Our Operations We are subject to risks associated with international sales that could harm our financial condition and results of operations. International sales accounted for 48% and 49% of our revenue for 2008 and 2007, respectively. If we do not consummate the Asset Sale and are able to raise funds to continue operations, then we believe that a significant percentage of our future revenue will continue to come from international sales. In particular, we rely on a network of third-party distributors to market and sell our products in non-U.S. markets. The success of our international sales depends upon a number of factors beyond our control, including the effectiveness and skill of our distributors and their willingness to commit resources and prioritize the sale of our products. These parties may not have the same interests as we do in marketing our products. If these distributors do not actively sell our products, we may be unable to increase or maintain our current level of international revenue. In order to grow our business and expand the territories into which we sell our products internationally, we will need to attract additional skilled distributors in key geographic areas. We cannot assure you that distributors will be available on acceptable terms. Additionally, international sales are subject to a number of other risks, including: ● reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; ● export restrictions, trade regulations and foreign tax laws; ● fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates; ● foreign certification and regulatory requirements; ● customs clearance and shipping delays; and ● political and economic instability. Additionally, our products and manufacturing facilities are subject to review and inspection by foreign regulatory agencies. Foreign authorities have become increasingly stringent and we and our distributors may be subject to more rigorous regulation in the future. Our failure or the failure of our distributors to comply with foreign regulations may restrict our and our distributors’ ability to sell our products internationally. Risks Related to Our Regulatory Environment If we fail to maintain U.S. Food and Drug Administration and other government clearances for our current products and indications, or if we fail to obtain clearances for additional products and indications, our business would be significantly harmed. Compliance with FDA, state and other regulations is complex, expensive and time-consuming. The FDA and state authorities have broad enforcement powers. Federal and state regulations, guidance, notices and other issuances specific to medical devices regulate, among other things: ● product design, development, manufacturing and labeling; ● product testing, including electrical testing, transportation testing and sterility testing; ● pre-clinical laboratory and animal testing; ● clinical trials in humans; ● product safety, effectiveness and quality; ● product manufacturing, storage and distribution; 15 ● pre-market clearance or approval; ● record keeping and document retention procedures; ● product advertising, sales and promotion; ● PMS and medical device reporting, including reporting of deaths, serious injuries or other adverse events or device malfunctions; and ● product corrective actions, removals and recalls. Our failure to comply with any of the foregoing could result in enforcement actions by the FDA or state agencies, which may include fines, injunctions, penalties, recalls or seizures of our products, operating restrictions or shutdown of production. Any noncompliance may also result in denial of our future requests for 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval (PMA) of new products, new intended uses or modifications to existing products and could result in the withdrawal of previously granted 510(k) clearance or PMA. If any of these events were to occur, we could lose customers and our product sales, business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. We may be unable to obtain or maintain international regulatory qualifications, clearances or approvals for our current or future products and indications, which could harm our international business. Sales of our products outside the United States are subject to foreign regulatory requirements that vary widely from country to country. In addition, exports of medical devices from the United States are regulated by the FDA. We have obtained a Conformité Européenne, or CE Mark, in Europe for temperature management in patients for whom a central venous catheter is warranted. We have obtained a regulatory license to market our products in Canada for cooling and warming critical care patients, including for cardiac arrest. We have also obtained regulatory clearance to market our products in Australia for cooling and warming critical care patients, and have applied for similar clearances in China, Japan and other Asian countries. Complying with international regulatory requirements can be an expensive and time-consuming process and clearance or approval is not certain. The time needed to obtain clearance or approvals, if required by other countries, may be longer than that required for FDA clearance or approvals, and the requirements for such clearances may be more expensive. Foreign clearances may significantly differ from FDA requirements, and we may be unable to obtain or maintain regulatory qualifications, clearances or approvals in other countries. If we experience delays in receiving necessary qualifications, clearances or approvals to market our products outside the United States, or if we fail to receive those qualifications, clearances or approvals, we may be unable to market our products in international markets. We may be subject to production halts and penalties if we or our third-party vendors fail to comply with FDA manufacturing regulations, which could harm our business. We are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which applies to our facility and the facilities of our third-party component manufacturers and sterilizers. The QSR sets forth minimum standards for the design, production, quality assurance packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our products. Our products are also covered by FDA regulation that imposes record keeping, reporting, product testing and product labeling requirements. These requirements include affixing warning labels to our products, as well as incorporating certain safety features in the design of our products. The FDA enforces the QSR and performance standards through periodic unannounced inspections. We and our third-party component manufacturers, suppliers and sterilization providers are subject to FDA inspections at all times. Our failure or the failure of our component manufacturers, suppliers and sterilization providers to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection or failure to comply with applicable performance standards could result in enforcement actions, including a public warning letter, a shutdown of manufacturing operations, a recall of products, and civil or criminal penalties. 16 Future enhancements of our products or new products we may develop may require new clearances or approvals or require that we cease selling such products until new clearances or approvals are obtained, which would harm our revenue and future profitability. Modifications to our CoolGard and Thermogard systems may require that we apply for additional 510(k) clearances. Any modification to a 510(k)-cleared device that would constitute a change in its intended use, design or manufacture could require a new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, a PMA. If the FDA requires that we submit a new 510(k) or PMA application for the modifications, we may be required to cease promoting or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval. In addition, we could be subject to fines or other penalties. We may not be able to obtain additional 510(k) clearances or PMAs for new products or for modifications to, or additional indications for, our existing products in a timely fashion, or at all. Delays in obtaining future clearances would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our revenue and future profitability. We will spend considerable time and money complying with federal, state and foreign regulations in addition to FDA regulations, and, if we are unable to fully comply with such regulations, we could face substantial penalties. In addition to FDA regulations, we are subject to extensive U.S. federal and state regulations and the regulations of foreign countries in which we conduct business. The laws and regulations that affect our business, in addition to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and FDA regulations include, but are not limited to: ● State consumer, food and drug laws, including laws regulating manufacturing; ● the federal anti-kickback statute, which prohibits compensation for arranging a good or service paid for under federal health care programs; ● Medicare regulations regarding reimbursement and laws prohibiting false reimbursement claims; ● federal and state laws protecting the privacy of patient medical information, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act; ● the Federal Trade Commission Act and similar laws regulating advertising and consumer protection; and ● regulations similar to the foregoing outside the United States. If our operations are found to be in violation of any health care laws or regulations, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs and curtailment of our operations. If we are required to obtain permits or licenses under these laws, we may be subject to additional regulation and incur significant expense. The risk of being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully or clearly interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are subject to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation. We depend upon a limited number of suppliers for the components of our products, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price fluctuations, which could affect our customer demand and our revenue could decline. Many of the components and materials used in our products are manufactured by a limited number of suppliers, and in some cases one supplier. Any supply interruption or an increase in demand beyond our suppliers’ capabilities could harm our ability to manufacture our products until a new source of supply is identified and qualified, which could result in lower revenue. Identifying and qualifying additional suppliers for the components used in our products, if required, may not be accomplished quickly or at all and could involve significant costs. If supply interruptions were to occur, our ability to meet customer demand would be impaired and customers may decide to cancel orders or switch to competitive products. Switching components or materials may require product redesign and new submissions to the FDA that could significantly delay production or, if the FDA refuses to approve the changes, stop us from manufacturing and selling our products. 17 We depend on key personnel to operate our business effectively, and the loss of key personnel could harm us. Our success depends on the skills, experience, technical knowledge and efforts of our officers and other key employees. Alsius does not have employment contracts that require any of its officers or other key employees to remain with Alsius for any period. Any of our officers and other key employees may terminate their employment at any time. In addition, we do not maintain key person life insurance policies covering any of our employees. The loss of any of our senior management could disrupt our business. If do not consummate the Asset Sale and were to remain a publicly traded company, then we will need to strengthen our internal controls over financial reporting in order to ensure that we are able to report financial results accurately and on a timely basis. If we fail to achieve and maintain effective controls and procedures for financial reporting, we could be unable to provide timely and accurate financial information. Prior to our merger with Ithaka Acquisition Corp. in June 2007, we operated as a relatively small privately held company. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, substantial expenses related to improving our internal controls over financial reporting that we will need to strengthen so that we can meet our reporting obligations as a public company in a timely and accurate manner. However, we cannot assure you that material weaknesses, significant deficiencies and control deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting will not be identified when we are required to conclude on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We will incur substantial expenses relating to improving our internal control over financial reporting. Our accounting and financial reporting functions may not currently have all of the necessary resources to ensure that we will not have significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our system of internal control over financial reporting. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting may in the future be limited by a variety of factors including: ● faulty human judgment and simple errors, omissions or mistakes; ● inappropriate management override of policies and procedures; and ● the possibility that any enhancements to disclosure controls and procedures may still not be adequate to assure timely and accurate financial information. If we fail to achieve and maintain effective controls and procedures for financial reporting, we could be unable to provide timely and accurate financial information. In accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, we will be required to file an auditor’s attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting when we file our annual report for our fiscal year ending on December 31, 2009. 18 If a natural or man-made disaster strikes our facility, we may be unable to manufacture products for a substantial amount of time and our revenue could decline. We only have one manufacturing facility, which is located in Irvine, California. We are vulnerable to damage from natural disasters, such as earthquakes, fire, floods and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business could be seriously impaired. Our facility and the equipment that we use to produce our products could require substantial lead-time to repair or replace. In the event of a disaster, we would not have the ability to immediately shift production to another facility or rely on third-party manufacturers. If we were to shift production from one facility to another, we would need FDA authorization to manufacture the product in the new facility. This could take up to six months and we may not be able to outsource manufacturing during that time. We currently carry business interruption insurance with a policy limit of $5.2 million. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient in scope or amount to cover potential losses, and we do not plan to purchase additional insurance to cover such losses due to the cost of such coverage. Any significant losses that are not recoverable under our insurance policies could seriously impair our business and financial condition. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Intellectual property rights may not provide adequate protection for our products, which could adversely affect our competitive position and may permit others to compete against us more effectively. We rely on patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws and confidentiality agreements to protect our technology and products. As of December 31, 2008, our products were covered by 34 issued U.S. patents. We also have U.S. patent applications pending directed to current and future products. As of December 31, 2008, our products were covered internationally by five issued patents. We have other foreign patent applications pending directed to current and future products. Our patents covering our key markets generally expire between 2018 and 2022. Our foreign patents and applications include patents filed initially in certain countries and patents filed initially in the United States for which it then sought foreign coverage by way of the Patent Cooperation Treaty, or PCT. We cannot be certain which, if any, of its patents individually or as a group will permit us to gain or maintain a competitive advantage. Additionally, our patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not issue in a form that will provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies. Furthermore, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability. Any patents we obtain may be challenged, invalidated or legally circumvented by third parties. Consequently, competitors could market products and use manufacturing processes that are substantially similar to, or superior to, ours. Competitors could reverse engineer our products and attempt to replicate them, design around our protected technologies or develop their own competitive technologies that fall outside of our intellectual property rights. In addition, the laws of many foreign countries will not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We use trademarks to protect our company name and certain of our product names. Alsius, CoolGard, Thermogard, Cool Line, Icy, Fortius, Quattro and Solex are registered trademarks in the United States and the European Union. We may also rely on common law protections from time-to-time for unregistered trademarks. Since no registration is required in order to establish common law rights to a trademark, it can be difficult to discover whether anyone has trademark rights in a particular mark. If we have to change our name or the name of our products due to infringement, we may experience a loss in goodwill associated with our brand name, customer confusion and a loss of sales. We also seek to protect our intellectual property using confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and certain vendors. However, we may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by consultants, vendors, former employees or current employees despite confidentiality agreements and other legal restrictions. Monitoring the unauthorized use and disclosure of our intellectual property is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken to protect its intellectual property will be effective. Zoll filed, but did not serve, a patent infringement complaint against us claiming that certain of our temperature management products infringe upon two temperature management patents Zoll purchased from a defunct competitor of ours. Zoll has agreed that during the pendency of our Asset Sale to Zoll, it will not serve us or take any action to pursue or resume the case. However, if the Asset Sale were not to close and the litigation with Zoll were to resume, we would incur significant costs to defend it and pursue counterclaims against Zoll, and as litigation is unpredictable, there is no assurance as to whether we would achieve a favorable outcome. A loss may involve the payment of damages and/or an injunction prevent us from selling some or all of our products. 19 Our products could infringe the intellectual property rights of others. This may lead to costly litigation, result in payment of substantial damages or royalties and prevent us from using technology essential to our products. In the medical device industry there is often extensive litigation and administrative proceedings regarding patent infringement and intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that our products or methods do not infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of others. Intellectual property litigation, with or without merit, is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention. If our products and their uses are successfully challenged, we could be required to pay substantial damages and be prohibited from using technologies essential to our products without the permission of their owners. We do not know whether permission to use others’ intellectual property would be available to us on satisfactory terms, or whether we could redesign our products to avoid infringement. We expect that any competitive advantage we may enjoy from our technologies, such as those of our CoolGard and Thermogard systems and catheters, may diminish over time as companies create their own innovations. We will only be able to protect our technologies from unauthorized use by others to the extent that we can pay to enforce our rights, including through litigation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 