ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect us are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our Business Has Been and May Continue to be Adversely Affected by Conditions in the Financial Markets and Economic Conditions Generally Negative developments in 2008 and 2009 in the financial services industry have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general and a related general economic downturn, which have continued into 2010 and 2011. In addition, as a consequence of the recent U.S. recession, businesses across a wide range of industries have faced serious difficulties due to the decrease in consumer spending, reduced consumer confidence brought on by deflated home prices, among other things, and reduced liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment also increased significantly over the past several years. As a result of these financial and economic crises, many lending institutions, including us, have experienced in recent years declines in the performance of their loans, including construction, land development and land loans, commercial real estate loans and other commercial and consumer loans. Moreover, competition among depository institutions for core deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, and the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets has been more difficult compared to years prior to the economic downturn. As a result, bank regulatory agencies have been and are expected to continue to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the issuance of formal or informal enforcement actions or orders. The impact of new legislation in response to these developments may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance or our stock price. In addition, further negative market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. Overall, during the past four years, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on our business, and there can be no assurance that the environment will improve in the near term. Until conditions improve, we expect our business, financial condition and results of operations to be adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents We are Subject to Credit Risk There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where we operate as well as those across the United States and abroad. Increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. We are also subject to various laws and regulations that affect our lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil money penalties against us. We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in our allowance for loan losses. Due to recent economic conditions affecting the real estate market, many lending institutions, including us, have experienced in recent years declines in the performance of their loans, including construction, land development loans and land loans and commercial loans. The value of real estate collateral supporting many construction and land development loans, land loans, commercial loans and multi-family loans have declined and may continue to decline. Further negative developments in the financial industry and credit markets may continue to adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We are Subject to Interest Rate Risk Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, demand for loans, securities and deposits, and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities and (iii) the average duration of our loans and securities that are collateralized by mortgages. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. If interest rates decline our higher-rate loans and investments may be subject to prepayment risk, which could negatively impact our net interest margin. Conversely, if interest rates increase, our loans and investments may be subject to extension risk, which could negatively impact our net interest margin as well. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to our management of interest rate risk. We are Subject to a Regulatory Written Agreement that Restricts us from Taking Certain Actions On January 22, 2010, the Company and the Bank entered into a Written Agreement (the "Written Agreement") with the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City (the "Federal Reserve") and the State of Colorado Division of Banking (the "CDB"). The Written Agreement required the Bank to submit 26 Table of Contents written plans within certain timeframes to the Federal Reserve Bank and the CDB that address the following items: board oversight, credit risk management practices, commercial real estate concentrations, problem assets, reserves for loan and lease losses, capital, liquidity, brokered deposits, earnings and overall condition. The Written Agreement also required the Company to submit to the Federal Reserve a written plan that addresses capital and a written statement of the Company's annual cash flow projections. In addition, the Written Agreement allows the Bank to continue to enter into contractual rollovers and renewals of brokered deposits, but prohibits the Bank from accepting any new brokered deposits. The Written Agreement also provides that written approval must be obtained from the federal regulators prior to appointing any new director or senior executive officer or changing the responsibilities of any senior executive officer and making indemnification and severance payments. Further, the Written Agreement provides that prior written approval must be obtained from the Federal Reserve, and in the case of the Bank, the CDB, prior to paying dividends. Prior written approval must also be obtained from the Federal Reserve before the Company can incur, increase or guarantee any debt, take any other form of payment representing a reduction in capital from the Bank, or make any distributions of interest, principal or other sums on subordinated debentures or trust preferred securities. There can be no assurance that the terms and conditions of the Written Agreement will continue to be met or that the impact or effect of such terms and conditions will not have a material adverse effect with respect to our financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Also, if, as a result of a future examination or review of the Bank, the Federal Reserve or the CDB should determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity, or other aspects of its operations have worsened or that it or its management is violating or has violated the written agreement or any law or regulation, various additional remedies are available to the Federal Reserve and the CDB. Such remedies include the power to enjoin "unsafe or unsound" practices, to require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in capital, to restrict our growth, to assess civil monetary penalties, to remove officers and directors, and ultimately to terminate our deposit insurance, which for a Colorado-chartered bank would result in the revocation of its charter. The Level of our Commercial Real Estate Loan Portfolio May Subject us to Additional Regulatory Scrutiny The FDIC, the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency have promulgated joint guidance on sound risk management practices for financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Under the guidance, a financial institution that, like us, is actively involved in commercial real estate lending should perform a risk assessment to identify concentrations. A financial institution may have a concentration in commercial real estate lending if, among other factors, (i) total reported loans for construction, land development, and other land represent 100% or more of total risk-based capital or (ii) total reported loans for construction, land development and other land and loans secured by multifamily and non-owner occupied non-farm residential properties (excluding loans secured by owner-occupied properties) represent 300% or more of total risk-based capital and the institution's commercial real estate loan portfolio has increased by 50 percent or more during the prior 36 month period. In such event, management should employ heightened risk management practices, including board and management oversight and strategic planning, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing. In addition, under the Written Agreement, the Bank is required to submit a written plan to continue to strengthen the Bank's management of commercial real estate concentrations, including steps to reduce or mitigate the risk of concentrations. 27 Table of Contents For the Bank, the amount of total reported loans for construction, land development and other land represented 52% of capital at December 31, 2011 as compared to 85% of capital at December 31, 2010. Further, the Bank's total reported commercial real estate loans to total capital was 254% at December 31, 2011, as compared to 300% of capital at December 31, 2010. As a result, we have concluded that we do not have a concentration in commercial real estate lending under the foregoing standards at this time. Although we have reduced our concentrations as described above, a significant portion of our classified assets are commercial real estate loans and as we work to further mitigate our risks associated with commercial real estate concentrations, we could take additional charge-offs and loan losses. In addition, if we are considered to have a concentration in the future and our risk management practices are found to be deficient, it could result in increased reserves and capital costs as well as potential regulatory enforcement action. Recent Legislative and Regulatory Initiatives Will Impose Restrictions and Requirements on Financial Institutions That Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business The United States Congress, the Treasury Department and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation have taken several steps to support the financial services industry, which have included certain well-publicized programs, such as the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), as well as programs enhancing the liquidity available to financial institutions and increasing insurance available on bank deposits. These programs have provided an important source of support to many financial institutions. Partly in response to these programs and the current economic climate, the President signed into law on July 21, 2010 the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the "Dodd-Frank Act"). Few provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act were effective immediately, with various provisions becoming effective in stages. Many of the provisions require governmental agencies to implement rules over the first18 months after enactment, many of which have been delayed. These rules will increase regulation of the financial services industry and impose restrictions on the ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices. These rules will, as examples, impact the ability of financial institutions to charge certain banking and other fees, allow interest to be paid on demand deposits, impose new restrictions on lending practices and require depository institution holding companies to maintain capital levels at levels not less than the levels required for insured depository institutions. We cannot predict the substance or impact of pending or future legislation or regulation. Compliance with such legislation or regulation may, among other effects, significantly increase our costs, limit our product offerings and operating flexibility, require significant adjustments in our internal business processes, and possibly require us to maintain our regulatory capital at levels above historical practices. There can be no Assurance That the Dodd-Frank Act and Other Government Programs Will Stabilize the U.S. Financial System There can also be no assurance as to the actual impact that the Dodd-Frank Act and other programs will continue to have on the financial markets, including credit availability. The failure of the Dodd-Frank Act or other programs to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our voting common stock. We Continue to Hold and Acquire a Large Amount of Other Real Estate Owned ("OREO") Properties, Which has Led to Increased Operating Expenses and Vulnerability to Additional Declines in Real Property Values We foreclose on and take title to the real estate serving as collateral for a number of our loans as part of our business. During 2010 and 2011, we continued to acquire a large amount of OREO. The balance at December 31, 2011 was comprised of 35 separate properties with an aggregate carrying 28 Table of Contents value of $29.0 million, of which $6.1 million is land; $22.7 million is commercial real estate including multi-family units; and $0.2 million is residential real estate. Large OREO balances have led to significantly increased expenses as we have incurred costs to manage and dispose of these properties. We expect that our operating results in 2012 will continue to be negatively affected by expenses associated with OREO, including personnel costs, insurance and taxes, completion and repair costs, and valuation adjustments with assets that are tied up in OREO. Any further decrease in market prices of real estate in our market areas may lead to additional OREO write downs, with a corresponding expense in our income statement. We evaluate OREO property values periodically and write down the carrying value of the properties if the results of our evaluations require it. We May be Required to Charge Off Additional Loans in the Future and Make Further Increases in Our Provisions for Loan Losses Which Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that represents management's best estimate of probable incurred losses within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management's continuing evaluation of specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions; industry concentrations; and other unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and judgment and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Increases in nonperforming loans have a significant impact on our allowance for loan losses. Generally, our nonperforming loans and assets reflect operating difficulties of individual borrowers resulting from weakness in the economy of the Front Range of Colorado. If the real estate valuation trends of the past several years continue, we could continue to experience delinquencies and credit losses, particularly with respect to commercial real estate loans. Under the Written Agreement, the Bank was required to submit a written plan regarding the allowance for loan losses. Although there was no requirement by the regulators to increase our allowance for loan losses, the plan addressed policies and procedures to periodically review and update the allowance for loan losses methodology. As a result of these periodic reviews, we might adjust our allowance for loan losses based on differences in judgment between the regulators and management. This could result in an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Furthermore, growth in the loan portfolio would generally lead to an increase in the provision for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See the section captioned "Allowance for Loan Losses" in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to our process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses. Liquidity Risk Could Impair Our Ability to Fund Operations and Jeopardize Our Financial Condition Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through traditional deposits, brokered deposit renewals or rollovers, secured or unsecured borrowings, the sale of securities or loans 29 Table of Contents and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or under terms of which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. We rely primarily on commercial and retail deposits and to a lesser extent, brokered deposit renewals and rollovers, advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") of Topeka and other secured and unsecured borrowings to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary, we might not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our results of operations or financial condition or the results of operations or financial condition of the FHLB of Topeka or market conditions were to change. In addition, if we fall below the FDIC's thresholds to be considered "well capitalized", we will be unable to continue to rollover or renew brokered funds, and the interest rate paid on deposits would be restricted. Under the Written Agreement, the Bank was required to submit a written plan to improve the Bank's liquidity position, including measures to diversify funding sources and reduce reliance on brokered deposits. The Written Agreement also restricts the Bank from issuing new brokered deposits, but the Bank can continue to renew or rollover existing brokered deposits. We have significantly reduced our level of brokered deposits during 2011 by choosing not to renew approximately $169.7 million of matured brokered deposits. This limits our ability to utilize brokered deposits as a significant funding source until we are no longer subject to the Written Agreement. Further, the Written Agreement prevents the Company, but not the Bank, from incurring, increasing or guaranteeing any debt without approval from the Federal Reserve. Although we consider the current sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs, there can be no assurance in this regard and we may be compelled to seek additional sources of financing in the future. Likewise, the Company may seek written approval from the Federal Reserve to issue additional debt in the future. There can be no assurance that such written approval would be obtained for additional borrowings at the holding company level, or that the additional borrowings would be available to us or, if available, would be on favorable terms. In addition, although we believe that the current level of cash at the holding company is sufficient to meet the operating needs of the holding company for over three years, assuming that the holding company does not contribute any additional amounts of capital to the Bank, there can be no assurance in this regard and we may be compelled in the future to seek either additional capital or dividends from the Bank to meet such needs. There can be no assurance that we could raise additional capital or that written approval would be obtained from our regulators for any such dividends. Bank and holding company stock prices have been negatively affected by the recent adverse economic trend, as has the ability of banks and holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to years prior to the recent economic downturn. If additional financing sources are unavailable or not available on reasonable terms, our financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially adversely affected. We actively monitor the depository institutions that hold our federal funds sold and due from banks cash balances. Our emphasis is primarily on safety of principal, and since September 2009, nearly all of our overnight funding is held at the Federal Reserve in order to mitigate risk associated with holding large amounts of cash with other financial institutions. Nonetheless, we are currently not able to provide assurances that access to our cash equivalents and federal funds sold will not be impacted by 30 Table of Contents adverse conditions in the financial markets. From time-to-time, a portion of the balances in our accounts with financial institutions in the U.S. may exceed the FDIC insurance limits. While we monitor and adjust the balances in our accounts as appropriate, these balances could be impacted if the financial institutions fail and could be subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. Concern of Customers Over Deposit Insurance May Cause a Decrease in Deposits With recent influx of bank failures, including several in Colorado, customers have become more concerned and aware about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. As a result, customers may either withdraw deposits or elect not to increase their deposits in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit with their bank is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect our funding costs and net income. Our Deposit Insurance Premiums Could Increase in the Future, Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on our Future Earnings The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including the Bank. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) at a certain level. Current economic conditions have increased bank failures and expectations for further failures, in which case the FDIC ensures payments of deposits up to insured limits from the DIF. Effective April 1, 2011, the FDIC implemented new rules required by the Dodd-Frank Act with respect to the FDIC assessments. In particular, the definition of an institution's deposit insurance assessment base was changed from total deposits to total assets less tangible equity. In addition, the FDIC revised the deposit insurance assessment rates down. The new initial base assessment rates range from 5 to 9 basis points for Category I banks to 35 basis points for Category IV banks. Category II and III banks have an initial base assessment rate of 14 or 23 basis points, respectively. In addition, the FDIC adopted a new Restoration Plan, pursuant to which, among other things, the FDIC (1) has foregone the uniform 3 basis point increase in initial assessment rates that was scheduled to take effect on January 1, 2011, (2) plans to maintain the current schedule of assessment rates, (3) has pursued further rulemaking regarding the method that will be used to offset the effect on banks with less than $10 billion in assets of the requirement that the reserve ratio reach 1.35% and (4) at least semiannually, will update its projections for the DIF and increase or decrease assessment rates, if needed. While based upon the new Restoration Plan and the new rulemaking, current initial base assessment rates are not expected to be increased in the near future, there can be no assurance that the FDIC will not increase assessment rates in the future or that the Bank will not be subject to higher assessment rates as a result of a change in its risk category, which could have an adverse effect on the Bank's earnings. In addition, the FDIC may terminate deposit insurance if it determines the institution involved has engaged in or is engaging in unsafe or unsound banking practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition, or has violated applicable laws, regulations or orders. In the case of a Colorado-chartered bank, the termination of deposit insurance would result in the revocation of its charter. To Reduce Our Level of Nonperforming Loans, We May Elect to Sell Loans to Third Parties, Which Could Result in Losses for the Bank We may elect to sell loans or packages of loans to third parties. Such sales may be at prices below the carrying value of the loans, which would require the immediate recognition of additional losses and reduce our capital levels. 31 Table of Contents We May Elect or be Compelled to Seek Additional Capital in the Future, But Capital May not be Available When it is Needed We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect to raise additional capital. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital as a result of deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors, which may diminish our ability to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, we may become subject to increased regulatory supervision and the imposition of restrictions on our growth and our business, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The Value of Securities in Our Investment Securities Portfolio May be Negatively Affected by Continued Disruptions in Securities Markets The market for some of the investment securities held in our portfolio has become volatile over the past several years. Volatile market conditions may detrimentally affect the value of these securities due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other than temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels. Our mortgage-backed portfolio may be subject to extension risk as interest rates rise and borrowers are unable to refinance their current mortgages into lower rate mortgages, extending the average life of the bonds. The Soundness of Other Financial Institutions Could Adversely Affect Us Since mid-2007, the financial services industry as a whole, as well as the securities markets generally, have been materially and adversely affected by very significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a very serious lack of liquidity. Financial institutions in particular have been subject to increased volatility and an overall loss in investor confidence. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 32 Table of Contents We may not Realize our Deferred Income Tax Assets. In Addition, Our Net Operating Loss Carryforwards and Built-in Losses Could be Substantially Limited if We Experience an Ownership Change as Defined in the Internal Revenue Code The Company may experience negative or unforeseen tax consequences. We review the probability of the realization of our net deferred tax assets each period based on forecasts of taxable income. This review uses historical results, projected future operating results based upon approved business plans, eligible carryforward and carryback periods, tax-planning opportunities and other relevant considerations. Adverse changes in the profitability and financial outlook in the U.S. and our industry may require the creation of an additional valuation allowance to reduce our net deferred tax assets. Such changes could result in material non-cash expenses in the period in which the changes are made and could have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the benefit of our built-in losses would be reduced if we experience an "ownership change," as determined under Internal Revenue Code Section 382 (Section 382). A Section 382 ownership change occurs if a stockholder or a group of stockholders who are deemed to own at least 5% of our common stock increase their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period. If an ownership change occurs, Section 382 would impose an annual limit on the amount of built-in losses we can use to reduce our taxable income equal to the product of the total value of our outstanding equity immediately prior to the ownership change (reduced by certain items specified in Section 382) and the federal long-term tax-exempt interest rate in effect for the month of the ownership change. A number of complex rules apply to calculating this annual limit. While the complexity of Section 382's provisions and the limited knowledge any public company has about the ownership of its publicly traded stock make it difficult to determine whether an ownership change has occurred, we currently believe that an ownership change has not occurred. However, if an ownership change were to occur, the annual limit Section 382 may impose could result in a limitation of the annual deductibility of our built-in losses. Tax Law Changes May Adversely Affect Our Net Income, Effective Tax Rate and Our Overall Results of Operations and Financial Condition The Company's financial performance is impacted by federal and state tax laws. Given the current economic and political environment, and ongoing state budgetary pressures, the enactment of new federal or state tax legislation may occur. The enactment of such legislation, or changes in the interpretation of existing law, including provisions impacting tax rates, apportionment, consolidation or combination, income, expenses, and credits, may have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. We Are Subject to Extensive Government Regulation and Supervision We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination. Any change in the laws or regulations applicable to us, or in banking regulators' supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether by the Colorado Division of Banking, the FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board, other state or federal regulators, the U.S. Congress or the Colorado legislature could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Bank is subject to regulations promulgated by the Colorado Division of Banking, as its chartering authority, and by the FDIC as the insurer of its deposits up to certain limits. The Bank also belongs to the Federal Home Loan Bank System and, as a member, is subject to certain limited regulations promulgated by the Federal Home Loan Bank of Topeka. In addition, the Federal Reserve 33 Table of Contents Board regulates and oversees Guaranty Bancorp as a bank holding company, and the Bank, as a member of the Federal Reserve System. This regulation and supervision limits the activities in which we may engage. The purpose of regulation and supervision is primarily to protect the FDIC's insurance fund and our depositors and borrowers, rather than our stockholders. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement powers. They may, among other things, impose restrictions on the operation of a banking institution, the classification of assets by such institution and such institution's allowance for loan losses. Regulatory and law enforcement authorities also have wide discretion and extensive enforcement powers under various consumer protection and civil rights laws, including the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Red Flag Identity Theft rules under the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act and Colorado's deceptive acts and practices law. These laws also permit private individual and class action lawsuits and provide for the recovery of attorneys fees in certain instances. Given the recent economic downturn and related legislative initiatives, new regulations and laws that may affect us are increasingly likely. Compliance with such regulations and laws may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. The Written Agreement also subjects us to additional restrictions and more frequent oversight. No assurance can be given that the foregoing regulations and supervision will not change so as to affect us adversely. Our Profitability Depends Significantly on Economic Conditions in the Colorado Front Range Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the counties in which we conduct business. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in the Colorado Front Range, which includes the Denver metropolitan area. The local economic conditions in our market area have a significant impact on our loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, natural disasters, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control would affect these local economic conditions and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further deterioration in economic conditions, in particular within our primary market areas, could result in the following consequences, among others, any of which could hurt our business materially: loan delinquencies on real estate, commercial and consumer loans may increase; problem assets and foreclosures may increase; demand for our products and services may decline; and collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing a customer's borrowing power and reducing the value of assets and collateral securing our loans. In view of the concentration of our operations and the collateral securing our loan portfolio in Colorado's Front Range, we may be particularly susceptible to the adverse effects of any of these consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further Downturn in Our Real Estate Markets Could Hurt Our Business Our business activities and credit exposure are primarily concentrated along the Front Range of Colorado. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 75% of the book value of our loan portfolio consisted of real estate loans. Substantially all of our real estate loans are located in Colorado. While we do not have any sub-prime loans, our construction, land development and land loan portfolio, along with our commercial and multi-family loan portfolios and certain of our other loans, have been affected by the recent downturn in the residential and commercial real estate market. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies and acts of nature. We anticipate that further declines in the real estate markets in our primary market areas would affect our business. If real estate 34 Table of Contents values continue to decline, the collateral for our loans will provide less security. As a result, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. The events and conditions described in this risk factor could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Small to Medium-sized Business Target Markets may have Fewer Financial Resources to Weather a Downturn in the Economy We target the banking and financial services needs of small and medium-sized businesses. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions continue to negatively impact these businesses in the markets in which we operate, our business, financial condition, and results of operation could be adversely affected. New Lines of Business or New Products and Services May Subject Us to Additional Risks From time to time, we may implement new delivery systems, such as internet banking, or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. In developing and marketing new delivery systems and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We Operate in a Highly Competitive Industry and Market Area We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional, and community banks within the various markets we serve. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Additionally, we expect competition to intensify among financial services companies due to the recent acquisition of failed institutions in our market area by other competing, out-of-state financial institutions. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic funds transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. 35 Table of Contents Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: •The ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets. •The ability to expand our market position. •The ability to retain qualified staff, including those with key customer relationships. •The scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands. •The rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors. •Customer satisfaction with our level of service. •Industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We Rely on Dividends from Our Subsidiary to Fund Company Expenses and Dividends Because we are a holding company with no significant assets other than the Bank, we currently depend upon dividends from the Bank for a substantial portion of our revenues and to fund the holding company's expenses. Our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders will therefore continue to depend in large part upon our receipt of dividends or other capital distributions from the Bank. Our ability to pay dividends is subject to the restrictions of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Various banking laws applicable to the Bank limit the payment of dividends, management fees and other distributions by the Bank to the Company, and may therefore limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. In addition, the Written Agreement prohibits both the Company and the Bank from paying dividends without the prior written approval of the Federal Reserve, and, in the case of the Bank, the CDB. Accordingly, our ability to receive dividends from the Bank, as well as our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders will be restricted until the Written Agreement is terminated. From time to time, we may become a party to financing agreements or other contractual arrangements that have the effect of limiting or prohibiting us or our bank subsidiary from declaring or paying dividends. See "Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities—Dividends" for more information on these restrictions. Although we believe that the current level of cash at the holding company is sufficient to meet the operating needs of the holding company for over three years, assuming that the holding company does not contribute any additional amounts of capital to the Bank, there can be no assurance in this regard and we may be compelled in the future to seek either additional capital or dividends from the Bank to meet such needs. There can be no assurance that we could raise additional capital or that written approval would be obtained from our regulators for any such dividends. Under the terms of our trust preferred securities, including our related subordinated debentures, issued on September 7, 2000, February 22, 2001, June 30, 2003 and April 8, 2004, we cannot declare or pay any dividends or distributions (other than stock dividends) on, or redeem, purchase, acquire or make a liquidation payment with respect to, any shares of our capital stock if (1) an event of default under any of the subordinated debenture agreements has occurred and is continuing, or (2) if we defer payment of interest on the trust preferred securities (for a period of up to sixty consecutive months as long as we are in compliance with all covenants of the agreement). On July 31, 2009, we elected to defer regularly scheduled interest payments on each of our subordinated debentures until further 36 Table of Contents notice. In addition, we are currently restricted from making payments of principal or interest on our subordinated debentures or trust preferred securities under the terms of our Written Agreement without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve. We are Dependent on Key Personnel and the Loss of One or More of Those Key Personnel Could Harm Our Business Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of and experience in the Colorado community banking industry. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, administrative, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of and customer relationships developed by our management and personnel. In particular, our success is highly dependent upon the abilities of our senior executive management. We believe this management team, comprised of individuals who have worked in the banking industry for many years, is integral to implementing our business plan. The loss of the services of one or more of them could harm our business. To mitigate the potential impact of a loss of key personnel, the Company has a management succession plan to ensure that our business plan continues to be effectively executed. Under the terms of the Written Agreement, prior written approval from the Federal Reserve must be obtained prior to appointing any new director or senior executive officer, or changing the responsibilities of any senior executive officer so that the officer would assume a different senior executive officer position. There is no assurance that written approval would be granted to appoint any new director or senior executive officer, or to change the responsibilities of any senior executive officer. Our Controls and Procedures May Fail or Be Circumvented Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We are Subject to a Variety of Operational Risks, Including Reputational Risk, Legal Risk and Compliance Risk, and The Risk of Fraud or Theft by Employees or Outsiders, Which May Adversely Affect Our Business and Results Of Operations We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, and unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. If personal, non-public, confidential or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and our large 37 Table of Contents transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We also may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, or natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or physical assets), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that we (or our vendors') business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in a diminished ability of us to operate our business (for example, by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect), as well as potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. In Particular, We are Subject to Security, Transactional and Operational Risks Relating to the Use of Technology That Could Damage Our Reputation and Our Business We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business serving both internal and customer constituencies. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While we have policies and procedures, security applications and fraud mitigation applications, designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, fraud attacks or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions, fraud attacks or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. Additionally, we outsource our data processing to a third party. If our third party provider encounters difficulties or if we have difficulty in communicating with such third party, it will significantly affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which would significantly affect our business operations. Furthermore, breaches of such third party's technology may also cause reimbursable loss to our consumer and business customers, through no fault of our own. Fraud attacks targeting customer-controlled devices, plastic payment card terminals, and merchant data collection points provide another source of potential loss, again through no fault of our own. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of information systems used to process customer transactions could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We Continually Encounter Technological Change The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 38 Table of Contents We Are Subject to Claims and Litigation Pertaining to Fiduciary Responsibility From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to our performance of our fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to our performance of our fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for our products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We Face Risks Associated With Acquisitions or Mergers We may pursue or be a party to an acquisition or merger opportunity in the future. Risks commonly encountered in mergers and acquisitions include, among other things: •The difficulty of integrating the operations, systems and personnel of acquired companies and branches. •The potential disruption of our ongoing business. •The potential diversion of our management's time and attention. •The inability of our management to maximize our financial and strategic position by the successful implementation of uniform product offerings and the incorporation of uniform technology into our product offerings and control systems. •The inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies and the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in management. •The potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired or merged company. •Exposure to potential asset quality issues of the acquired or merged company. •The possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired or merged company. •Difficulty in estimating the value of the acquired or merged company. •Potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the acquired or merged company. •Environmental liability with acquired loans, and their collateral, or with any real estate. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with mergers or acquisitions. Our integration of operations of banks or branches that we acquire may not be successfully accomplished and may take a significant amount of time. Our inability to improve the operating performance of acquired banks and branches or to integrate successfully or in a timely manner their operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We would expect to hire additional employees and/or retain consultants to assist with integrating our operations, and we cannot assure that those individuals or firms will perform as expected or be successful in addressing these issues. We are Exposed to Risk of Environmental Liabilities with Respect to Properties to Which We Take Title In the course of our business, we may own or foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to 39 Table of Contents investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, cash flows, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Severe Weather, Natural Disasters, Acts of War or Terrorism and Other External Events Could Significantly Impact Our Business Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Common Stock An Investment in Our Common Stock is Not an Insured Deposit Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this "Risk Factors" section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you could lose some or all of your investment. Concentrated Ownership of Our Stock May Discourage a Change in Control and Have an Adverse Effect on the Share Price of Our Voting Common Stock and Also Can Influence Stockholder Decisions As of February 1, 2012, executive officers, directors and stockholders of more than 5% of our common stock beneficially owned or controlled approximately 63.4% of our common stock. Investors who purchase our common stock may be subject to certain risks due to the concentrated ownership of our common stock. Such a concentration of ownership may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control and may also have an adverse effect on the market price of our voting common stock. In addition, as a result of their ownership, executive officers, directors and stockholders of more than 5% of our common stock may have the ability to influence the outcome of any matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors. Our Stock Price can be Volatile. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for investors to resell our common stock when desired and at attractive prices. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; recommendations by securities analysts; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and/or our competitors; new technology used, or services offered, by competitors; significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors; failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; changes in government regulations; and geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease or be volatile regardless of operating results. 40 Table of Contents The Trading Volume in Our Voting Common Stock is Less Than That of Other Larger Financial Services Companies Although our voting common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the trading volume in our voting common stock is less than that of other, larger financial services companies, and investors are not assured liquidity with respect to transactions in our voting common stock. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our voting common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our voting common stock, significant sales of our voting common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall. The Holders of Our Junior Subordinated Debentures Have Rights That are Senior to Those of Our Stockholders We currently have outstanding an aggregate of $40.0 million in junior subordinated debentures in connection with trust preferred securities issuances by our statutory trust subsidiaries. We conditionally guarantee payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities. Our junior subordinated debentures are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to the holders of common stock. We May Issue Additional Securities, which could Dilute Your Ownership Percentage. In certain situations, our Board of Directors has the authority, without any vote of our stockholders, to issue shares of our authorized but unissued stock. In the future, we may issue additional securities, through public or private offerings, to raise additional capital or finance acquisitions. Any such issuance would dilute the ownership of current holders of our common stock. 41 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 