Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business We have incurred net losses in the past and we may incur net losses in the future. We have a history of operating losses and have incurred significant net losses in each fiscal quarter since our inception. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had gross revenues of $4,599,303 and $2,348,068, respectively and incurred net losses of $12,748,701 and $11,678,235, respectively. We expect to continue to incur net losses and negative cash flows for the foreseeable future because we expect to incur additional costs and expenses related to: • expansion of operations, resources and working capital to support our business growth; • start up of continuous production at our new bioplastic facility in Seymour, Indiana and subsequent consolidation of all core manufacturing to this location; • continued development of new products and associated intellectual property protection; • enhancements to our application development and testing facilities; • expanded marketing and other promotional activities; and • joint development of proprietary products with key strategic business partners. We will need to generate significant additional revenue to achieve profitability. Our ability to generate and sustain significant additional revenues or achieve profitability will depend upon numerous factors outside of our control, including the market acceptance of our bio-based resins, future cost trends for our key raw materials and competitive products, and general economic conditions. It is possible that we may never achieve profitability and, even if we do achieve profitability, we may not sustain or increase profitability in the future. If we do not achieve sustained profitability, we may be unable to continue our operations. We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our financial performance and prospects. We only commenced the marketing and commercial sale of our products within the past three years, and continue to develop and launch new bio-based resins. We are, therefore, subject to all of the risks inherent in a new business enterprise, as well as those inherent in a rapidly developing industry. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our financial performance and prospects. There can be no assurance that in the future we will generate revenues, operate profitably or that we will have adequate working capital to meet our obligations as they become due. Because of our limited financial history, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations will not be meaningful in the short term and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. In the current economic environment we will be required to raise additional capital to fund our research and development efforts, marketing programs, as well as our continuing operations. If such additional financing is not available, we may need to cease operations. Our capital requirements depend on several factors, including: • the speed at which our products are accepted into the market; • the level of spending to increase and enhance manufacturing capacity; • costs of recruiting and retaining qualified personnel; and • the level of research and development and market commercialization spending. Additional capital will be required to continue to fund our research and development efforts as well as our continuing operations. There can be no assurance that additional sources of financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our research and development efforts, take advantage of opportunities, develop products or technologies or otherwise respond to competitive pressures will be impaired. Ultimately, if financing is not available, we may need to cease operations. The commercial success of our business depends on the widespread market acceptance of products manufactured with our bio-based resins. If we are unable to generate interest in our bio-based resins or if the manufacturers are unable to generate interest in products produced with our resins, we will be unable to generate increased sales and we will be forced to cease operations. Although there is a developed market for petroleum-based plastics, the market for plastics produced with our environmentally friendly bio-based resins is still developing. Our success depends on consumer acceptance of these plastic products as well as the success of the commercialization of plastics produced with our bio-based resins by third parties. At present, it is difficult to assess or predict with any assurance the potential size, timing and viability of market opportunities for our product in the plastics market. The traditional plastics market sector is well-established with entrenched competitors with whom we must compete. Pricing for traditional plastics has been highly volatile in recent years, and moved rapidly from conditions which are more supportive of bioplastics to environments which are less favorable (like the present). While we expect to be able to command a premium price for our environmentally sustainable products, a widening gap in the pricing for bioplastics versus petroleum-based plastics may reduce the size of our addressable market. 10 Table of Contents We have only recently commenced industrial scale production of our bio-based resins and it is possible that some of our bio-based resins or plastic products made with our bio-based resins may not perform as well as other resins or traditional plastics. Individual products produced with our bio-based resins may not perform as well as traditional plastics. We are still developing and improving many of our bio-based resins and are continuing to evaluate the performance in specific applications. If we fail to develop bio-based resins that allow products made with our bio-based resins to perform comparably to traditional plastics, this could cause consumers to prefer alternative products. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property and proprietary rights and may be required to expend significant amounts of money and time in attempting to protect these rights. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our competitive position in the market could suffer. Our intellectual property consists of patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trade dress and trademarks. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our other intellectual property for our technologies and products in the U.S. and in other countries. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S., and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting their proprietary rights in these foreign countries. These problems may be caused by, among other factors, a lack of rules and methods for defending intellectual property rights. Our future commercial success requires us not to infringe on patents and proprietary rights of third parties, or breach any licenses or other agreements that we have entered into with respect to our technologies, products and businesses. The enforceability of patent positions cannot be predicted with certainty. We will apply for patents covering both our technologies and our products, if any, as we deem appropriate. Patents, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. There can be no assurance that no other relevant patents have been issued that could block our ability to obtain patents or to operate as we would like. Others may develop similar technologies or may duplicate technologies developed by us. We are not currently a party to any litigation with respect to any of our patent positions. However, if we become involved in litigation or interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or other intellectual property proceedings outside of the U.S., we might have to spend significant amounts of money to defend our intellectual property rights. If any of our competitors file patent applications or obtain patents that claim inventions or other rights also claimed by us, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the relevant patent regulatory agency to determine priority of invention and our right to a patent of these inventions in the U.S. Even if the outcome is favorable, such proceedings might result in substantial costs to us, including, significant legal fees and other expenses, diversion of management time and disruption of our business. Even if successful on priority grounds, an interference proceeding may result in loss of claims based on patentability grounds raised in the interference proceeding. Uncertainties resulting from initiation and continuation of any patent or related litigation also might harm our ability to continue our research or to bring products to market. An adverse ruling arising out of any intellectual property dispute, including an adverse decision as to the priority of our inventions would undercut or invalidate our intellectual property position. An adverse ruling also could subject us to significant liability for damages, prevent us from using certain processes or products, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with third parties. Furthermore, necessary licenses may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, or at all. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. To protect our proprietary technologies and processes, we rely on trade secret protection as well as on formal legal devices such as patents. Although we have taken security measures to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, these measures may not provide adequate protection for such information. Our policy is to execute confidentiality and proprietary information agreements with each of our employees and consultants upon the commencement of an employment or consulting arrangement with us. These agreements generally require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not be disclosed to third parties. These agreements also generally provide that technology conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our exclusive property. Even though these agreements are in place there can be no assurances that that trade secrets and proprietary information will not be disclosed, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets, or that we can fully protect our trade secrets and proprietary information. Violations by others of our confidentiality agreements and the loss of employees who have specialized knowledge and expertise could harm our competitive position and cause our sales and operating results to decline as a result of increased competition. Costly and time-consuming litigation might be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection might adversely affect our ability to continue our research or bring products to market. 11 Table of Contents Management and affiliates own enough shares to have a substantial impact on shareholder vote which could cause us to take action that may not be in the best interest of all shareholders. As of December 31, 2008, our executive officers and directors, and entities controlled by or affiliated with them or the Company, own in aggregate approximately 43.8% of the outstanding common stock. As a result, this group of stockholders have a substantial impact on the vote on matters that require stockholder approval, such as election of directors, approval of a corporate merger, increasing or decreasing the number of authorized shares, adopting corporate benefit plans, effecting a stock split, amending our Certificate of Incorporation or other material corporate actions, and these shareholders could cause the us to take action that may not be in the best interest of all shareholders. Given our limited resources, we may not effectively manage our growth. Our growth and expansion plan, which includes targeting high-growth segments with commercial products, supporting converter partners and working with brand owners in the adoption of bio-based plastics to enlarge our customer base, expanding our manufacturing capabilities, strengthening our product leadership by developing new formulations in conjunction with customer demands and pursuing strategic alliances, requires significant management time and operational and financial resources. There is no assurance that we have the necessary operational and financial resources to manage our growth. This is especially true as we expand facilities and manufacture our products on a larger commercial scale. In addition, rapid growth in our headcount and operations may place a significant strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Failure to adequately manage our growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the quoted price of our common stock. Established product manufacturers could improve the ability to recycle their existing products or develop new environmentally preferable products which could render our technology less competitive. Several paper and plastic disposable packaging manufacturers and converters and others have made efforts to increase the recycling of their products. Increased recycling of paper and plastic products could lessen their harmful environmental impact, one major basis upon which we compete. Many potential competitors who have greater resources and experience than we do may develop products and technologies that compete with ours. A number of these companies, including BASF, DuPont, Novamont, NatureWorks and Telles, have introduced or are in the process of introducing both bio-based resins and/or compostable synthetic-based resins. We view the threat from this competition as low. Just as a wide variety of different petroleum-based polymers and resins currently serve the needs of the plastic market, we believe that the various resins and polymers offer different properties and are targeted at different applications, making them more complementary and thus broadening the universe of applications for bio-based and compostable plastics. We rely on prime grade polylactic acid (“PLA”) supplied from NatureWorks, LLC in manufacturing some of our Compostables resins. If we lose NatureWorks, LLC as a supplier, the price of these resins may increase or the introduction and market acceptance of these resins may be delayed and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We have entered into a supply agreement with NatureWorks to supply prime grade PLA for some of our raw material needs. NatureWorks, LLC, currently produces the majority of the prime grade PLA in the United States, and we currently rely on NatureWorks, LLC for a substantial portion of our PLA requirements. For the year ended December 31, 2008 PLA accounted for 76% of our total raw material cost of goods sold. If we lose NatureWorks, LLC as a supplier or if NatureWorks, LLC fails to perform its obligations under our supply agreement, it could delay the commercial introduction, hinder market acceptance of these resins and increase the cost of these resins and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We continue to develop alternative feedstock to PLA and evaluate additional PLA sources to support some of our Compostables® Resins, which incorporate prime grade PLA. Cereplast Hybrid Resins® do not depend on PLA. 12 Table of Contents Fluctuations in the costs of our raw materials and competitive products could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations are directly affected by the cost of our raw materials. Our Compostables Resins are based in large part on polylactic acid, a renewable polymer manufactured from an agricultural feedstock (corn sugar). Our ability to offset the effect of raw material prices by increasing sales prices is uncertain. A further increase in the price differential between agricultural -based raw materials relative to petroleum-based plastics could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial position. Historically, a primary driver for the growth of the bioplastics market has been the rising and increasingly volatile cost of oil, which has narrowed the cost gap between traditional and bio-based plastics, and expectations of sustained large hydrocarbon price increases over the long term which would further enhance the competitiveness of our products. Prices and demand for traditional plastics have collapsed in recent months due to global economic conditions; this in turn has affected the interest in bioplastics by certain market sectors and reduced our relative competitiveness. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we had one significant customer that accounted for 54% of total sales. The loss of this customer could adversely affect our short-term sales and profitability. During the year ended December 31, 2008, one customer accounted for 54% of our total sales. If this customer elects not to continue purchasing products from us, we may not be able to find other customers whose requirements for our products are as significant. Accordingly, the loss of this significant customer may adversely affect our near-term business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The manufacture, sale and use of resins are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”). The FDA’s regulations are concerned with substances used in food packaging materials, not with specific finished food packaging products. Thus, food and beverage containers are in compliance with FDA regulations if the components used in the food and beverage containers: (i) are approved by the FDA as indirect food additives for their intended uses and comply with the applicable FDA indirect food additive regulations; or (ii) are generally recognized as safe for their intended uses and are of suitable purity for those intended uses. We believe that our resins are in compliance with all FDA requirements. Failure to comply with FDA regulations could subject us to administrative, civil or criminal penalties. Regulatory changes applicable to us, or the products in our end-use markets, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We and many of the applications for the products in the end-use markets in which we sell our products are regulated by various national and local regulations. Changes in those regulations could result in additional compliance costs, seizures, confiscations, recall or monetary fines, any of which could prevent or inhibit the development, distribution and sale of our products. We may be liable for damages based on product liability claims brought against our customers in our end-use markets. Many of our products may provide critical performance attributes to our customers’ products that will be sold to end users who could potentially bring product liability suits in which we could be named as a defendant. The sale of these products involves the risk of product liability claims. If a person were to bring a product liability suit against one of our customers, this customer may attempt to seek contribution from us. A person may also bring a product liability claim directly against us. A successful product liability claim or series of claims against us in excess of our insurance coverage for payments, for which we are not otherwise indemnified, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We have acquired product liability coverage of up to $6.0 million. Loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could hurt our business and inhibit our ability to operate and grow successfully. Our success in the competitive markets in which we operate will continue to depend to a significant extent on our leadership and other key management and technical personnel. We may not be able to retain our current management personnel or to recruit qualified individuals to join our management team. The loss of any key individual could have a material adverse effect on our business. We currently manufacture our bio-based resins at a 55,000 square foot facility in Hawthorne, California. Full or partial loss of use of this facility could materially impair our business. We currently manufacture our bio-based resins at a 55,000 square foot facility in Hawthorne, California. The Hawthorne facility is comprised of three manufacturing lines, a research and development line, a lab area for resin testing and a logistics area for raw materials and bio-based resins, as well as our corporate headquarters. Any significant disruption of this facility for any reason, such as a fire, flood, hurricanes, earthquakes or similar events, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition until such time as we are able to secure an alternative facility for our operations. We are in the process of commencing operations at a second manufacturing facility in Seymour, Indiana. 13 Table of Contents Disruptions or delay in the commencement of continuous operation of our new Seymour bioplastic production facility could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We lease a facility and site in Seymour, Indiana, where we have constructed a new bioplastic production facility. Phase I of the development of the Seymour facility includes approximately 50 million pounds of annual capacity of bio-resin to be fully implemented in 2009. This Phase is mechanically completed and is awaiting conclusion of several major supply contracts in order to be operating on a continuous basis. Phase II encompasses the consolidation of all core manufacturing activities to the Seymour site resulting in significant cost, productivity and quality enhancements. Further expansions will depend on growth in market demand. We have secured options to purchase approximately 53 acres of adjacent land, which would give us the space to bring total annual production capacity to 500 million pounds when fully developed. We may experience delays in commencing operations as a result of failure to obtain sufficient financing throughout the course of the development, work stoppages, delays from weather or acts of nature, delays in obtaining the necessary equipment, failure to achieve and maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations and other unforeseen events. Failure to launch this facility in a timely manner could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and the quoted price of common stock. In addition, difficulties in organizing manufacturing processes, including labor relations, raw material procurement, manufacturing inefficiencies and compliance with applicable laws and regulations could result in product recalls or manufacturing shutdowns. Downturns in general economic conditions could adversely affect our profitability. Downturns in general economic conditions can cause fluctuations in demand for our products, product prices, volumes and margins. Future economic conditions may not be favorable to our industry. A decline in the demand for our products or a shift to lower-margin products due to deteriorating economic conditions could adversely affect sales of our products and our profitability and could also result in impairments of certain of our assets. Risks related to our stock Our common stock is subject to the “Penny Stock” rules of the SEC and the trading market in our securities is limited, which makes transactions in our stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in our stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 15g-9 which establishes the definition of a “penny stock,” for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require: • that a broker or dealer approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks; and • that the broker or dealer receives from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: • obtain financial information concerning the person’s financial situation, and investment experience and investment objectives of the person; and • make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the Commission relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: • sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and • that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the “penny stock” rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our common stock and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. 14 Table of Contents Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, there are no unresolved staff comments regarding our previously filed periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 