ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below is a detailed discussion of risks related to our industry and our business. In addition to the other information in this document, you should consider carefully the following risk factors. Any of these risks or the occurrence of any one or more of the uncertainties described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the performance of our business. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY The global economic crisis which began in 2008 is likely to have detrimental impacts on our business. During the third quarter 2008 a global economic crisis in the credit markets began to impact the equity markets and may produce a prolonged global recession. Although we cannot predict the extent, timing and full ramifications of the crisis, we believe that, at a minimum, the following risks have been heightened. • Potential recession impacts — Global demand for many of the products that are currently shipped by barge may be significantly diminished by a prolonged recession. Such loss of demand could severely impact our revenues, costs and financial condition, as it may lead to an oversupply of barges reducing the rates we are able to charge for our services. Such loss of demand could also result in tow-size and positioning inefficiencies. • Credit availability to our customers and suppliers — We believe that many of our customers and suppliers, particularly customers of our manufacturing segment, rely on liquidity from operative global credit markets. If the markets remain illiquid or available pricing increases dramatically, demand for our products and services may be constricted, necessary services may cost more or even be unavailable to us and we may not be able to enforce contracts or collect on outstanding invoices. • Reduced credit availability to the Company — Though the Company was able to amend its existing credit facility and extend the term through March 31, 2011 as further discussed in Note 3 of the consolidated financial statements and in the Liquidity section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A), available liquidity in 2009 was reduced by $75 million to $475 million. At December 31, 2008 this reduced availability would have given the Company $53 million in available liquidity, $32 million after payment of amendment and other fees resulting from the renewal. Additionally, the Company’s cost of debt is significantly higher than under 19 Table of Contents the previous facility, initially at 8.5%, or a “floor” LIBOR of 3.0% plus 550 basis points. Interest rates increase 50 basis points each six months through its maturity. Under the previous agreement rates were LIBOR plus 250 basis points. • Planning risk — Our ability to plan and forecast operating results and capital needs is lessened which could lead to lower operating efficiency. • Market risk — We have significant costs associated with our pension plan, the cost of which is dependent on many factors including the return on plan assets. Plan assets declined significantly in 2008. Further declines in plan assets could increase required expense provisions and contributions under the plan. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for disclosures related to our employee benefit plans. Freight transportation rates for the Inland Waterways fluctuate from time to time and may decrease. Freight transportation rates fluctuate from season-to-season and year-to-year. Levels of dry and liquid cargo being transported on the Inland Waterways vary based on several factors including global economic conditions and business cycles, domestic agricultural production and demand, international agricultural production and demand, and foreign exchange rates. Additionally, fluctuation of ocean freight rate spreads between the Gulf of Mexico and the Pacific Northwest affects demand for barging on the Inland Waterways, especially in grain movements. Grain, particularly corn for export, has been a significant part of our business. Since the beginning of 2006, all grain transported by us has been under spot market contracts. Spot grain contracts are normally priced at, or near, the quoted tariff rates in effect for the river segment of the move. Spot rates can vary widely from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. A decline in spot rates could negatively impact our business. The number of barges and towboats available to transport dry and liquid cargo on the Inland Waterways also varies from year-to-year as older vessels are retired and new vessels are placed into service. The resulting relationship between levels of cargoes and vessels available for transport affects the freight transportation rates that we are able to charge. An oversupply of barging capacity may lead to reductions in freight rates. Our industry has previously suffered from an oversupply of barges relative to demand for barging services. Such oversupply may recur due to a variety of factors, including a drop in demand, overbuilding, delay in scrapping or extending useful lives through refurbishing of barges approaching the end of their useful economic lives. Calendar years 2006 and 2007 were the first years in eight years that more barges were built than scrapped. We believe that approximately 25% of the industry’s existing dry cargo barge fleet will need to be retired or refurbished due to age over the next four to eight years. If retirement occurs, we believe that barge capacity will continue to be constrained. However, if an oversupply of barges were to occur, it could take several years before supply growth matches demand due to the variable nature of the barging industry and the freight transportation industry in general, and the relatively long life of marine equipment. Such oversupply could lead to reductions in the freight rates that we are able to charge. Yields from North American and worldwide grain harvests could materially affect demand for our barging services. Demand for dry cargo barging in North America is significantly affected by the volume of grain exports flowing through ports on the Gulf of Mexico. The volume of grain exports can vary due to, among other things, crop harvest yield levels in the United States and abroad and exchange rates. Overseas grain shortages increase demand for U.S. grain, while worldwide over-production decreases demand for U.S. grain. Other factors, such as domestic ethanol demand and overseas markets acceptance of genetically altered products and the exchange rate, may also affect demand for U.S. grain. Fluctuations in demand for U.S. grain exports can lead to temporary barge oversupply, which in turn can lead to reduced freight rates. We cannot assure that historical levels of U.S. grain exports will continue in the future. 20 Table of Contents Diminishing demand for new barge construction may lead to a reduction in sales volume and prices for new barges. The prices we have been able to charge for manufacturing segment production have fluctuated historically based on a variety of factors including the cost of raw materials, the cost of labor and the demand for new barge builds compared to the barge manufacturing capacity within the industry at the time. Since late 2005 we have been increasing the pricing on our barges, net of steel costs, in response to increased demand for new barge construction. Some of the contracts signed prior to that time (the “Legacy Contracts”), including any options exercised for additional barges, may negatively impact manufacturing segment margins due to their lower overall pricing structure. We plan to continue increasing the pricing on our barges, net of steel, in conjunction with the expected additional demand for new barge construction as well as inflation of our costs. As a percent of total production, Legacy Contracts will decline in 2009 and beyond. If demand for new barge construction diminishes we may not be able to maintain or increase pricing over our current levels. Volatile steel prices may lead to a reduction in or delay of demand for new barge construction. Almost all of the contracts for Jeffboat production contain steel price adjustments. Although the price of steel has recently declined from peak levels, the price has been volatile in 2008. Due to the steel price adjustments in the contracts, the total prices incurred by our customers for new barge construction has also varied. Some customers may consider steel prices when determining to build new barges resulting in fluctuating demand for new barge construction. Higher fuel prices, if not recouped from our customers, could dramatically increase operating expenses and adversely affect profitability. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, fuel expenses represented 25.4% and 20.9% of transportation revenues, respectively. For the quarters ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, fuel expenses represented 20.9% and 22.0% of transportation revenues, respectively. Fuel prices are subject to fluctuation as a result of domestic and international events. Generally, our term contracts contain provisions that allow us to pass through (effectively on approximately a 45 day delay basis) a significant portion of any fuel expense increase to our customers, thereby reducing, but not eliminating, our fuel price risk. Fuel price is a key, but not the only variable in spot market pricing. Therefore, fuel price and the timing of contractual rate adjustments can be a significant source of quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year volatility, particularly in periods of rapidly changing fuel prices. Negotiated spot rates may not fully recover fuel price increases. From time to time we hedge the expected cash flows from anticipated purchases of unprotected gallons through fuel price swaps. We choose how much fuel to hedge depending on the circumstances. However, we may not effectively control our fuel price risk and may incur fuel costs higher than the spot market price. At December 31, 2008 the market value of our fuel price swaps represented a liability of approximately $13 million. If there are no further changes in market value prior to settlement dates in 2009, this amount would be charged to operations as the fuel is used. The cash impact of the settlement of these losses will be offset by any required cash collateral at the date of settlement. At December 31, 2008 we had approximately $6 million in cash collateral. Our operating margins are impacted by certain low margin Legacy Contracts and by spot rate market volatility for grain volume and pricing. Our predecessor company emerged from bankruptcy in January 2005. Our largest term contract for the movement of coal predates the emergence and was negotiated at a low margin. Though it contains a fuel adjustment mechanism, the mechanism may not fully recover increases in fuel cost. The majority of our coal moves since bankruptcy and through the 2015 expiration of this contract may be at a low or negative margin due to our inability to fully recover fuel price increases through the contract though we have recently hedged expected 2009 fuel usage at prices better than breakeven. Additionally, contracts for barge manufacturing by our manufacturing segment negotiated prior to 2006 also commit us to lower margins and more aggressive labor hour forecasts than we have recently achieved. Also, though the contracts contain steel price escalation clauses, only a portion adjust for increases in wage rates which we have experienced since they were signed. 21 Table of Contents If we are unable to improve our performance against the contract labor hour forecasts these contracts may reduce margins or inhibit margin improvements in our manufacturing segment. These two concentrations of low margin business were approximately $192 million, $185 million and $178 million of our total revenues in 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. The combined Legacy Contract amounts in 2009 are expected to be lower than 2008 excluding the impact of steel escalation. All of our grain shipments since the beginning of 2006 were under spot market contracts. Spot rates can vary widely from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. The available pricing and the volume under such contracts is impacted by many factors including global economic conditions and business cycles, domestic agricultural production and demand, international agricultural production and demand, foreign exchange rates and fluctuation of ocean freight rate spreads between the Gulf of Mexico and the Pacific Northwest. The revenues generated under such contracts, therefore, ultimately may not cover inflation, particularly for wages and fuel, in any given period. We expect that 2009 grain spot rates will be somewhat lower than 2008. These circumstances may reduce the margins we are able to realize on the contract grain movements during 2008. Grain movements were 30%, 22% and 19% of our total transportation segment revenues in 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. Current forecasts indicate that a higher percentage of exported grain may move through the Port of New Orleans in 2009 than in 2008 due primarily to more favorable ocean-going freight differentials than in the prior year. Given the current economy we are unable to clearly predict grain volumes, but we expect grain to continue to decline as a percent of revenue in 2009. The Legacy Contracts combined with the potential impact of the grain spot market may lead to declines in our operating margins which could reduce our profitability. We are subject to adverse weather and river conditions, including marine accidents. Our barging operations are affected by weather and river conditions. Varying weather patterns can affect river levels, contribute to fog delays and cause ice to form in certain river areas of the United States. For example, the Upper Mississippi River closes annually from approximately mid-December to mid-March, and ice conditions can hamper navigation on the upper reaches of the Illinois River during the winter months. During hurricane season in the summer and early fall, we may be subject to revenue loss, business interruptions and equipment and facilities damage, particularly in the Gulf region. In addition, adverse river conditions can result in lock closures as well as affect towboat speed, tow size and loading drafts and can delay barge movements. Terminals may also experience operational interruptions as a result of weather or river conditions. During 2008 the number of idle barge days due to high water conditions, primarily on the Illinois and Arkansas rivers, and to the impacts of the three hurricanes which hit the Gulf Coast were up more than one and one-half times over the prior year, to almost 42,000 idle barge days. This is equivalent to not generating any revenue from approximately 115 barges for a full year. Adverse weather conditions may also affect the volume of grain produced and harvested. In the event of a diminished harvest, the demand for barging services will likely decrease. Additionally, marine accidents involving our or others’ vessels may impact our ability to efficiently operate on the Inland Waterways. Such accidents, particularly those involving spills, can effectively close sections of the Inland Waterways to marine traffic. Our manufacturing segment’s waterfront facility is subject to occasional flooding. Its manufacturing operation, much of which is conducted outdoors, is also subject to weather conditions. As a result, these operations are subject to production schedule delays or added costs to maintain production schedules caused by weather. During 2008 the number of lost production days due to weather conditions was up by 25% over the prior year levels. Seasonal fluctuations in industry demand could adversely affect our operating results, cash flow and working capital requirements. Segments of the inland barging business are seasonal. Historically, our revenue and profits have been lower during the first six months of the year and higher during the last six months of the year. This seasonality 22 Table of Contents is due primarily to the timing of the North American grain harvest and seasonal weather patterns. Our working capital requirements typically track the rise and fall of our revenue and profits throughout the year. As a result, adverse market or operating conditions during the last six months of a calendar year could disproportionately adversely affect our operating results, cash flow and working capital requirements for the year. The aging infrastructure on the Inland Waterways may lead to increased costs and disruptions in our operations. Many of the dams and locks on the Inland Waterways were built early in the last century, and their age makes them costly to maintain and susceptible to unscheduled maintenance outages. Much of this infrastructure needs to be replaced, but federal government funding of the 50% share not funded through fuel user taxes on barge operators for new projects has historically been limited. In addition, though the current annual government funding levels are near the average anticipated annual need for the foreseeable future, there can be no guarantee that these levels will be sustained and that a larger portion of infrastructure maintenance costs will not be imposed on operators. The delays caused by malfunctioning dams and locks may increase our operating costs and delay the delivery of our cargoes. Moreover, increased diesel fuel user taxes could be imposed in the future to fund necessary infrastructure improvements, increasing our expenses. We may not be able to recover increased fuel user taxes through pricing increases that may occur. The current administration’s economic stimulus package may result in the closure or reduced capacity of dams and locks during upgrades or maintenance which could result in operational inefficiency, interruption of service and lower revenues. The inland barge transportation industry is highly competitive; increased competition could adversely affect us. The inland barge transportation industry is highly competitive. Increased competition in the future could result in a significant increase in available shipping capacity on the Inland Waterways, which could create downward rate pressure for us or result in our loss of business. Global trade agreements, tariffs and subsidies could decrease the demand for imported and exported goods, adversely affecting the flow of import and export tonnage through the Port of New Orleans and the demand for barging services. The volume of goods imported through the Port of New Orleans is affected by subsidies or tariffs imposed by U.S. or foreign governments. Demand for U.S. grain exports may be affected by the actions of foreign governments and global or regional economic developments. Foreign subsidies and tariffs on agricultural products affect the pricing of and the demand for U.S. agricultural exports. U.S. and foreign trade agreements can also affect demand for U.S. agricultural exports as well as goods imported into the United States. Similarly, national and international embargoes of the agricultural products of the United States or other countries may affect demand for U.S. agricultural exports. Additionally, the strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies can impact import and export demand. These events, all of which are beyond our control, could reduce the demand for our services. Our failure to comply with government regulations affecting the barging industry, or changes in these regulations, may cause us to incur significant expenses or affect our ability to operate. The barging industry is subject to various laws and regulations, including national, state and local laws and regulations, all of which are subject to amendment or changes in interpretation. In addition, various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies require barge operators to obtain and maintain permits, licenses certificates and require routine inspections, monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting respecting their vessels and operations. Any significant changes in laws or regulations affecting the inland barge industry, or in the interpretation thereof, could cause us to incur significant expenses. Enacted regulations call for increased inspection of towboats. The United States Coast Guard (“USCG”) has been instructed in recent Congressional hearings to complete interpretation of the new regulations. These interpretations could result in boat delay and significantly increased maintenance and upgrade costs for our boat fleet. Furthermore, failure to comply with 23 Table of Contents current or future laws and regulations may result in the imposition of fines and/or restrictions or prohibitions on our ability to operate. Though we work actively with regulators at all levels to avoid inordinate impairment of our continued operations, regulations and their interpretations may ultimately have a negative impact on the industry. Regulations such as the Transportation Worker Identification Credential provisions of the Homeland Security legislation could have an impact on the ability of domestic ports to efficiently move cargoes. This could ultimately slow operations and increase costs. Our maritime operations expose us to numerous legal and regulatory requirements, and violation of these regulations could result in criminal liability against us or our officers. Because we operate in marine transportation, we are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations. Violations of these laws and regulations in the conduct of our business could result in fines, criminal sanctions or criminal liability against us or our officers. The Jones Act restricts foreign ownership of our stock, and the repeal, suspension or substantial amendment of the Jones Act could increase competition on the Inland Waterways and have a material adverse effect on our business. The Jones Act requires that, to be eligible to operate a vessel transporting non-proprietary cargo on the Inland Waterways, the company that owns the vessel must be at least 75% owned by U.S. citizens at each tier of its ownership. The Jones Act therefore restricts, directly or indirectly, foreign ownership interests in the entities that directly or indirectly own the vessels which we operate on the Inland Waterways. If we at any point cease to be 75% owned by U.S. citizens, we may become subject to penalties and risk forfeiture of our Inland Waterways operations. As of December 31, 2008, we believe that we are in compliance with the ownership requirements. The Jones Act continues to be in effect and has historically been supported by the U.S. Congress and the prior administrations. We cannot assure that the Jones Act will not be repealed, further suspended or amended in the future. If the Jones Act was to be repealed, suspended or substantially amended and, as a consequence, competitors with lower operating costs were to enter the Inland Waterways market, our business likely would be materially adversely affected. In addition, our advantages as a U.S.-citizen operator of Jones Act vessels could be eroded over time as there continue to be periodic efforts and attempts by foreign investors to circumvent certain aspects of the Jones Act. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our cash flows and borrowing facilities may not be adequate for our additional capital needs and, if we incur additional borrowings, our future cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest and principal of our substantial indebtedness. Our operations are capital intensive and require significant capital investment. We intend to fund substantially all of our needs to operate the business and make capital expenditures, including adequate investment in our aging boat and barge fleet, through operating cash flows and borrowings. Capital may not be continuously available to us and may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. We may need more capital than may be available under the terms of the revolving credit facility as amended in February 2009 or successor facilities and therefore we would be required either to (a) seek to increase the availability under the revolving credit facility or (b) obtain other sources of financing. If we incur additional indebtedness, the risk that our future cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our substantial indebtedness would increase. We may not be able to increase the availability under the revolving credit facility or to obtain other sources of financing on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, we may be required to curtail our capital expenditures and we may not be able to invest in our aging boat and barge fleet and to meet our obligations, including our obligations to pay the principal and interest under our indebtedness. 24 Table of Contents We amended our credit facility and extended the maturity date to March 31, 2011 as discussed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements and in the Liquidity section of MD&A. On June 26, 2008 the Company filed a $200,000 unallocated shelf registration statement with the SEC. Our substantial borrowings are currently all tied to floating interest rates which may expose us to higher interest payments should LIBOR or the prime rate increase substantially. At December 31, 2008, we had $418.6 million of floating rate debt outstanding, which represented the outstanding balance of the revolving credit facility. Each 100 basis point increase in interest rates, at our existing debt level, would increase our cash interest expense by approximately $4.2 million annually if base LIBOR rates exceed the credit facility’s stated 3% floor. We face the risk of breaching financial covenants in our credit agreement. Our credit agreement contains financial covenants, including a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization. Although we believe none of our covenants are considered restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreement. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our credit agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If the lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit. Our aging fleet of dry cargo barges may lead to increased costs and disruptions in our operations. The average life expectancy of a dry cargo barge is 25 to 30 years. We anticipate that without further investment and repairs by the end of 2010 approximately one-third of our current dry cargo barges will have reached 30 years of age. Though we currently have almost 200 dry barges in use greater than 30 years old, once barges begin to reach 25 to 30 years of age the cost to maintain and operate them may be so high that it may be more economical for the barges to be scrapped. If such barges are not scrapped, additional operating costs to repair and maintain them would likely reduce cash flows and earnings. If such barges are scrapped and not replaced, revenue, earnings and cash flows may decline. Though we anticipate future capital investment in dry cargo barges, we may choose not to replace all barges that we may scrap with new barges based on uncertainties related to financing, timing and shipyard availability. If such barges are replaced, significant capital outlays would be required. We may not be able to generate sufficient sources of liquidity to fund necessary replacement capital needs. If the number of barges declines over time, our ability to maintain our hauling capacity will be decreased unless we can improve the utilization of the fleet. If these improvements in utilization are not achieved, revenue, earnings and cash flow could decline. The loss of one or more key customers, or material nonpayment or nonperformance by one or more of our key customers, could cause a significant loss of revenue and may adversely affect profitability. In 2008, our largest customer, Cargill, accounted for approximately 5% of our revenue. Our largest ten customers accounted for approximately 27% of our revenue. If we were to lose one or more of our large customers, or if one or more of our large customers were to significantly reduce the amount of barging services they purchased from us and we were unable to redeploy that equipment on similar terms, or if one or more of our key customers failed to pay or perform we could experience a significant loss of revenue. We are named as a defendant in class action lawsuits and we are in receipt of other claims and we cannot predict the outcome of such litigation which may result in the imposition of significant liability to the Company. In 2008, ten class action complaints were filed and are pending in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana relating to a collision on July 23, 2008, involving one of ACLLLC’s tank barges that was being towed by DRD Towing Company, L.L.C., of Harvey, LA, an independent towing contractor 25 Table of Contents (“DRD Towing”), and the motor vessel Tintomara, operated by Laurin Maritime, at Mile Marker 97 of the Mississippi River in the New Orleans area. (See “Legal Proceedings.”) ACLLLC filed an action in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana seeking exoneration from or limitation of liability. All lawsuits filed against ACLLLC are consolidated in this action. Claims under OPA 90 are also afforded an administrative process to settle such claims. While we believe that both DRD Towing and Laurin Maritime have insurance coverage, we do not have any indication as to the extent to which such insurance will be available to the Company. ACLLLC was designated a responsible party under OPA 90, and the Company performed the cleanup and is responding to OPA claims. We have made demand on DRD Towing for cleanup, defense and indemnification. However, there is no assurance that DRD Towing and Laurin Maritime or any other party that may be found responsible for the accident will have the insurance or financial resources available to provide such defense and indemnification. We have various insurance policies covering pollution, property, marine and general liability. However, there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate. See “Our Insurance May Not Be Adequate to Cover Our Losses” below. We cannot predict the outcome of this litigation which may result in the imposition of significant liability. We are facing significant litigation which may divert management attention and resources from our business. We are facing significant litigation relating to a collision on July 23, 2008, between one of the ACLLLC’s tank barges that was being towed by DRD Towing, an independent towing contractor, and the motor vessel Tintomara, operated by Laurin Maritime. (See “Legal Proceedings.”) Defense against this litigation may require us to spend a significant amount of time and resources that may otherwise be spent on management of our business. In addition, we may in the future be the target of similar litigation. This litigation or additional litigation may result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which may seriously harm our business. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover our losses. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from our operational risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. While we believe that we have satisfactory insurance coverage for pollution, property, marine and general liability, in the event that costs exceed our available insurance or additional liability is imposed on us for which we are unable to seek reimbursement, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to continue to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future, and some claims may not be paid. In the past, stricter environmental regulations have led to higher costs for insurance covering environmental damage or pollution, and new regulations could lead to similar increases or even make this type of insurance unavailable. We may not ultimately be able to drive efficiency to the level to achieve our current forecast of tonnage without investing additional capital or incurring additional costs. Our plans for our transportation business capital investment and organic growth are predicated on efficiency improvements which we expect to achieve through a variety of initiatives, including balanced traffic lane density, minimizing empty barge miles, reduction in non-revenue generating stationary days, better power utilization and improved fleeting, among others. We believe that our initiatives will result in improvements in efficiency allowing us to move more tonnage per barge. If we do not fully achieve these efficiencies, or do not achieve them as quickly as we plan, we will need to incur higher repair expenses to maintain fleet size by maintaining older barges or invest new capital as we replace retiring capacity. Either of these options would adversely affect our results of operations. 26 Table of Contents A major accident or casualty loss at any of our facilities could significantly reduce production. One or more of our facilities or equipment may experience a major accident and may be subject to unplanned events such as explosions, fires, inclement weather, acts of God and transportation interruptions. Any shutdown or interruption of a facility could reduce the production from that facility and could prevent us from conducting our business for an indefinite period of time at that facility, which could substantially impair our business. For example, such an occurrence at our manufacturing segment’s facility could disrupt or shut down our manufacturing activities. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover our resulting losses. Interruption or failure of our information technology and communications systems, or compliance with requirements related to controls over our information technology protocols, could impair our ability to effectively provide our services or increase our information technology costs and could damage our reputation. Our services rely heavily on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems, particularly our Integrated Barge Information System (“IBIS”). We have experienced brief systems failures in the past and may experience brief or substantial failures in the future. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning does not account for all eventualities. The occurrence of a natural disaster, or other unanticipated problems at our facility at which we maintain and operate our systems could result in lengthy interruptions or delays in our services and damage our reputation with our customers. Our transportation division employees are covered by federal maritime laws that may subject us to job-related claims in addition to those provided by state laws. Many of our employees are covered by federal maritime laws, including provisions of the Jones Act, the Longshore and Harbor Workers Act and the Seaman’s Wage Act. These laws typically operate to make liability limits established by state workers’ compensation laws inapplicable to these employees and to permit these employees and their representatives to pursue actions against employers for job-related injuries in federal court. Because we are not generally protected by the limits imposed by state workers’ compensation statutes for these employees, we may have greater exposure for any claims made by these employees than is customary in the individual states. We have experienced work stoppages by union employees in the past, and future work stoppages may disrupt our services and adversely affect our operations. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 1,220 employees were represented by unions. Most of these unionized employees (approximately 1,200 individuals) are represented by General Drivers, Warehousemen and Helpers, Local Union No. 89, affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America (“Teamsters”), at our shipyard facility under a three-year collective bargaining agreement that expires in April 2010. Our remaining unionized employees (approximately 20 positions) are represented by the International Union of United Mine Workers of America, District 12 - Local 2452 at ACL Transportation Services LLC in St. Louis, Missouri under a collective bargaining agreement that expired in December 2010. Although we believe that our relations with our employees and with the recognized labor unions are generally good, we cannot assure that we will not be subject to work stoppages or other labor disruption in the future. The loss of key personnel, including highly skilled and licensed vessel personnel, could adversely affect our business. We believe that our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and to operate profitably depends on the continued employment of our senior management team and other key personnel, including highly skilled and licensed vessel personnel. Specifically, experienced vessel operators, including captains, are not quickly replaceable and the loss of high-level vessel employees over a short period of time could impair our ability to fully man all of our vessels. If key employees depart, we may have to incur significant costs to replace them. Our ability to execute our business model could be impaired if we cannot replace them in a 27 Table of Contents timely manner. Therefore, any loss or reduction in the number of such key personnel could adversely affect our future operating results. Failure to comply with environmental, health and safety regulations could result in substantial penalties and changes to our operations. Our operations, facilities, properties and vessels are subject to extensive and evolving laws and regulations. These laws pertain to air emissions; water discharges; the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and oil and oil-related products, hazardous substances and wastes; the investigation and remediation of contamination; and health, safety and the protection of the environment and natural resources. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, assessment of monetary penalties and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. As a result, we are involved from time to time in administrative and legal proceedings related to environmental, health and safety matters and have in the past and will continue to incur costs and other expenditures relating to such matters. In addition to environmental laws that regulate our ongoing operations, we are also subject to environmental remediation liability. Under federal and state laws, we may be liable as a result of the release or threatened release of hazardous substances or wastes or other pollutants into the environment at or by our facilities, properties or vessels, or as a result of our current or past operations, including facilities to which we have shipped wastes. These laws, such as the federal Clean Water Act, CERCLA, RCRA and OPA 90, typically impose liability and cleanup responsibility without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the release or threatened release. Even if more than one person may be liable for the release or threatened release, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held wholly responsible for all of the cleanup costs and damages. In addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site or vessel for damage based on personal injury, property damage or other costs and cleanup costs, resulting from environmental contamination. Under OPA 90, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil within the internal and territorial waters, and the 200-mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. Additionally, an oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties, criminal liability and costs for natural resource damages. The potential for these releases could increase as we increase our fleet capacity. Most states bordering on a navigable waterway have enacted legislation providing for potentially unlimited liability for the discharge of pollutants within their waters. As of December 31, 2008, we were involved in the several matters relating to the investigation or remediation of locations where hazardous materials have or might have been released or where we or our vendors have arranged for the disposal of wastes. These matters include situations in which we have been named or are believed to be a potentially responsible party under applicable federal and state laws. As of December 31, 2008, we had no significant reserves for these environmental matters excluding the July 2008 barge collision incident. Any cash expenditures required to comply with applicable environmental laws or to pay for any remediation efforts in excess of such reserves or insurance will therefore result in charges to earnings. We may incur future costs related to the sites associated with the environmental issues, and any significant additional costs could adversely affect our financial condition. The discovery of additional sites, the modification of existing laws or regulations or the promulgation of new laws or regulations, more vigorous enforcement by regulators, the imposition of joint and several liability under CERCLA or analogous state laws or OPA 90 and other unanticipated events could also result in a material adverse effect. We are subject to, and may in the future be subject to disputes, or legal or other proceedings that could involve significant expenditures by us. The nature of our business exposes us to the potential for disputes or legal or other proceedings from time to time relating to labor and employment matters, personal injury and property damage, product liability 28 Table of Contents matters, environmental matters, tax matters, contract disputes and other matters. Specifically, we are subject to claims on cargo damage from our customers and injury claims from our vessel personnel. These disputes, individually or collectively, could affect our business by distracting our management from the operation of our business. If these disputes develop into proceedings, these proceedings, individually or collectively, could involve significant expenditures. We are currently involved in several environmental matters. See “Legal Proceedings — Environmental Litigation.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 