Item 1A Risk Factors Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2 Properties Item 3 Legal Proceedings Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6 Selected Financial Data Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A Controls and Procedures Item 9B Other Information PART III Item 10 Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11 Executive Compensation Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules Signatures Signatures PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS RBC Bearings Incorporated We are a well known international manufacturer and marketer of highly engineered precision plain, roller and ball bearings. Bearings, which are integral to the manufacture and operation of most machines and mechanical systems, reduce wear to moving parts, facilitate proper power transmission and reduce damage and energy loss caused by friction. While we manufacture products in all major bearing categories, we focus primarily on highly technical or regulated bearing products for specialized markets that require sophisticated design, testing and manufacturing capabilities. We believe our unique expertise has enabled us to garner leading positions in many of the product markets in which we primarily compete. We estimate that over one-fourth of our net sales are derived from products for which we are the sole supplier and the only manufacturer able to provide the required bearing solution. We believe that being the sole supplier for these products provides us with a competitive advantage due to the lengthy and rigorous certification processes and/or approvals required by a majority of these customers or government agencies, which typically take anywhere from six months to six years to complete, and due to our long track record with most of these customers of delivering high quality and uniquely designed and engineered products in a timely manner. We have been providing bearing solutions to our customers since 1919. Over the past ten years, under the leadership of our current management team, we have significantly broadened our end markets, products, customer base and geographic reach. We currently operate 15 manufacturing facilities in three countries. The Bearing Industry The bearing industry is a highly fragmented multi-billion dollar market. Purchasers of bearings include producers of commercial and military aerospace equipment, automotive and commercial truck manufacturers, industrial equipment and machinery manufacturers, agricultural machinery manufacturers and construction, mining and specialized equipment manufacturers. The increased demand for bearings in the diversified industrial market is being influenced by growth in industrial machinery and equipment shipments and increasing nonresidential construction activity. In addition, increased usage of existing machinery will significantly improve aftermarket demand for replacement bearing products. In the aerospace market, aging of the existing commercial aircraft fleet along with carrier traffic growth is expected to continue to expand demand for our bearing solutions. Lastly, strong growth in the defense market is being influenced by modernization programs necessitating increased spending on new equipment, as well as continued utilization of deployed equipment supporting robust aftermarket demand for replacement bearings. Our Competitive Strengths We believe that for the majority of our products, the principal competitive factors affecting our business are product qualifications, product line breadth, service and price. Although some of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than us, we believe that we are well positioned to compete with regard to each of these factors in each of the markets in which we operate. Leading Market Positions. We compete in specialized markets where we believe we are often the only supplier with the manufacturing expertise, business plan and engineering resources required to provide the required bearing solution. We estimate that approximately two-thirds of our net sales during fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006 were generated by products for which we hold the number one or two market position. Most of our products undergo lengthy and rigorous customer certification processes and/or approvals, while our aerospace and defense products generally require additional FAA and military certification, respectively. We often participate in our customers’ product design and/or certification process which typically takes anywhere from six months to six years to complete, and, in many cases, our bearings are the only products that are certified for use with the product. This is evidenced by our strong customer relationships, many of which are greater than 20 years. Diversified Revenue Base. We sell a wide array of bearing products to customers across many diverse end markets, each of which is influenced by different fundamental economic factors. Our products are sold both to OEMs and to aftermarket distributors and service providers. In addition, we currently sell our products to more than 6,700 customers, and no single customer represented more than 7% of our net sales during fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006. Our diversified revenue base mitigates the impact of any single product or customer on our financial performance. 1 Large Installed Product Base with Recurring Aftermarket Revenue Stream. We provide bearings to a large and growing number of applications for which our products have been tested and certified. Our bearing products are approved for over 32,000 applications, many of which are part of aerospace, defense and industrial platforms that can be in service for as long as several decades, thereby requiring continuing aftermarket support. Many of our products are critical to the performance of the equipment in which they are installed but represent a small percentage of the ongoing maintenance expense of the equipment. Aftermarket sales of replacement parts for existing equipment platforms represented approximately 55% of our net sales for fiscal 2006. We believe we are well positioned to continue to capture recurring revenue from these product lines in the future due to the high customer switching costs and our high service levels associated with most of the equipment in which our products are installed. Proprietary Design and Manufacturing Capabilities. We believe that our bearing engineering and manufacturing expertise, including our dedicated team of engineers and proprietary manufacturing capabilities, positions us to provide high quality, innovative solutions to our targeted markets in a timely way. We also believe that our design and manufacturing capabilities will allow us to maintain a leadership position as our customers continue to rely on us to develop new bearing solutions that can be manufactured cost effectively. However, our strength in this area is dependent upon our ability to continue to attract and retain skilled engineers. Disciplined Acquisition Program with History of Successful Integration. We have demonstrated expertise in acquiring and integrating bearing and precision-engineered component manufacturers that have complementary products or distribution channels and provide significant potential for margin enhancement. We have consistently increased the profitability of acquired businesses through a process of methods and systems improvement coupled with the introduction of complementary and proprietary new products. Since October 1992 we have completed 13 acquisitions which have significantly broadened our end markets, products, customer base and geographic reach. Most recently, in September 2005, we acquired the Southwest Products Company, a manufacturer of spherical bearings, journal bearings and push-pull controls for military weapon systems and military and commercial aerospace applications. Experienced Management Team. Our management team possesses extensive managerial experience in the bearing industry, with our top five operating executives averaging over 20 years of bearing industry experience. We intend to retain and attract experienced professionals by leveraging our reputation as a premier provider of precision bearing solutions. Our Growth Strategy We intend to grow our business while continuing to focus on specialized markets for highly engineered bearing solutions. Key elements of our growth strategy include: Continue to Develop Innovative Bearing Solutions. We intend to leverage our design and manufacturing expertise and our extensive customer relationships to continue to develop new products for markets where we believe there are substantial growth opportunities. We analyze new product opportunities carefully by taking into account projected market prices and volumes and expected manufacturing costs, only pursuing new product lines that we believe will achieve our gross margin targets. Recent examples of our new product and process innovation include lightweight aircraft structural components that integrate bearing products for the Airbus series of aircraft, corrosion resistant materials for aircraft bearings and patented new designs that improve the service performance of cam followers for the oil and gas, packaging and material handling industries. Our ability to develop new custom engineered products strengthens existing customer relationships and creates new business opportunities for us. Expand Customer Base and Penetrate End Markets. We continually seek opportunities to penetrate new customers, geographic locations and bearing platforms with existing products or profitable new product opportunities. For example, we have been expanding our sales to foreign aerospace manufacturers and foreign defense manufacturers that support the U.S. government. In addition, in the last three years we have added sales support in numerous new U.S. locations as well as Paris, France and Asia and have been able to increase aftermarket sales in these regions. We currently have sales offices in over 10 other U.S. cities as well as other international locations such as Germany, England and Switzerland. We intend to continue to expand our sales force, customer base and end markets and have identified a number of attractive growth opportunities domestically and abroad, including current projects in semiconductor machinery, airframe controls and missile guidance systems. In addition, our OEM relationships, coupled with our design expertise, provide us with extensive cross-selling opportunities on platforms that we do not currently supply. Increase Aftermarket Sales. Aftermarket sales accounted for approximately 55% of our net sales for fiscal 2006. Such sales included both sales to third party distributors and a portion of our sales to OEMs for replacement bearings. We intend to 2 increase the percentage of our revenues derived from the replacement market by continuing to implement several initiatives. First, we will continue to seek opportunities to increase our sales to key existing distributors as well as expand our base of third party customers. Second, our new product and new end market initiatives are focused on high-growth platforms, such as 300 millimeter semiconductor manufacturing systems and the U.S. government’s Joint Strike Fighter program that we expect will be in service for long periods and therefore create significant demand for replacement parts. Additionally, we will seek opportunities to develop new products that can be used as replacement parts for existing platforms. For example, we have been approved recently to supply replacement bearings on the U.S. Navy’s fleet of Harrier aircraft. We believe that increasing our aftermarket sales of replacement parts will further enhance the continuity and predictability of our revenues and increase our profitability. Pursue Selective Acquisitions. We believe that there will continue to be consolidation within the bearing industry that may present us with acquisition opportunities, particularly within the industrial and aerospace markets. This consolidation is being driven by an ongoing trend among OEMs to utilize fewer suppliers in order to simplify procurement, increase manufacturing efficiency and reduce costs; and, because we are one of the more well known and established suppliers of high quality specialty bearing products, it is a trend that has often worked in our favor. We regularly evaluate opportunities, some of which may be material, to acquire bearing and precision-engineered component manufacturers which have complementary products, customers or distribution channels, provide significant potential for margin enhancement and further expand the breadth of our product portfolio. Customers and Markets We serve a broad range of end markets where we can add value with our specialty, precision bearing products and applications. We classify our customers into two principal categories: diversified industrial and aerospace and defense. These principal end markets utilize a large number of both commercial and specialized bearing products. Although we provide a relatively small percentage of total bearing products supplied to each of our overall principal markets, we believe we have leading market positions in many of the specialized bearing product markets in which we primarily compete. Financial information regarding geographic areas is set forth in Item 8, Note 20. · Diversified Industrial Market (56% of net sales for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2006) We manufacture bearing products for a wide range of diversified industrial markets, including construction and mining, oil and natural resource extraction, heavy truck, packaging and semiconductor machinery. Nearly all mechanical devices and machinery require bearings to relieve friction where one part moves relative to another. Our products target existing market applications in which our engineering and manufacturing capabilities provide us with a competitive advantage in the marketplace. Our largest diversified industrial customers include Applied Materials, Caterpillar, Chicago Rawhide, Eaton, Hitachi Construction Machinery, Parker-Hannifin Corporation and various aftermarket distributors including Applied Industrial, Motion Industries and McMaster Carr. We believe that the diversification of our sales among the various markets of the industrial bearings market reduces our exposure to downturns in any individual market. We believe opportunities exist for growth and margin improvement in this market as a result of increasing demand for industrial machinery, the introduction of new products and the expansion of aftermarket sales. · Aerospace and Defense Market (44% of net sales for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2006) Aerospace Applications We supply bearings for use in commercial and private aircraft. We supply bearings for many of the commercial aircraft currently operating worldwide and are the primary supplier for many of our product lines. This includes military contractors for airplanes, helicopters and missile systems. Commercial aerospace customers generally require precision products, often of special materials, made to unique designs and specifications. Many of our aerospace bearing products are designed and certified during the original development of the aircraft being served, which often makes us the primary bearing supplier for the life of the aircraft. Our largest aerospace customers include Airbus, Boeing, General Electric, Lockheed Martin, Raytheon, Rolls Royce, Pratt and Whitney and various aftermarket channels. We estimate that over 64% of commercial aerospace net sales are actually used as replacement parts, as bearings are regularly replaced on aircraft in conjunction with routine maintenance procedures. We believe our strong relationships with OEMs help drive our aftermarket sales since a portion of OEM sales are ultimately 3 intended for use as replacement parts. We believe that growth and margin expansion in this segment will be driven primarily by expanding our international presence and the refurbishment and maintenance of existing commercial aircraft. Defense Applications We manufacture bearing products used by the U.S. Department of Defense and certain foreign governments for use in fighter jets, troop transports, naval vessels, helicopters, gas turbine engines, armored vehicles, guided weaponry and satellites. We manufacture an extensive line of standard products that conform to many domestic military application requirements, as well as customized products designed for unique applications. We specialize in the manufacture of high precision ball and roller bearings, commercial ball bearings and metal-to-metal and self-lubricating plain bearings for the defense market. Our bearing products are manufactured to conform to U.S. military specifications and are typically custom designed during the original product design phase, which often makes us the sole or primary bearing supplier for the life of the product. In addition to products that meet military specifications, these customers often require precision products made of specialized materials to custom designs and specifications. Product approval for use on military equipment is often a lengthy process ranging from six months to six years. Our largest defense customers include the U.S. Department of Defense and all branches of the U.S. military. Sales consist primarily of replacement bearings on programs for which we are the primary supplier. We believe that our current installed base of bearing products and our sophisticated engineering and manufacturing capabilities position us to benefit from growing replacement part demand caused by increased equipment utilization as well as the introduction of new weapons and transport systems. Appropriations for maintenance and repairs for product platforms serviced by us have generally remained relatively stable, even during periods where defense spending was in relative decline, such as the early to mid-1990s. With increased government spending on defense, demands for the repair and maintenance of the product platforms serviced by us have strengthened in the past year. We have long-term supply agreements that serve to establish the scope of the supply arrangements with many of our larger customers. The primary purpose of these agreements is to allow the customer to secure favorable pricing and capacity while providing us with the opportunity to effectively plan production. The majority of these agreements are for three year terms, however longer terms are occasionally agreed upon. Typically, large OEM customers are in the three-year category while defense contractors and their programs are likely to involve longer terms. These agreements generally establish the price (typically including material escalation), the product being supplied, the term of the agreement, minimum quantities and general terms and conditions. However, shipments are based solely upon the purchase orders placed by the customer under the long-term supply agreement. Products Bearings are employed to fulfill several functions including reduction of friction, transfer of motion and carriage of loads. We design, manufacture and market a broad portfolio of bearing products. The following table provides a summary of our product segments: Net Sales for the Fiscal Year Ended Segment April 3, 2004 April 2, 2005 April 1, 2006 Representative Applications Plain Bearings $77,578 (41.4%) $93,250 (38.4%) $115,091 (41.9%) · · · Aircraft engine controls and landing gear Helicopter rotors and missile launchers Mining and construction equipment Roller Bearings $63,106 (33.7%) $92,281 (38.0%) $96,466 (35.1%) · · · Aircraft hydraulics Military and commercial truck chassis Packaging machinery and gear pumps Ball Bearings $35,801 (19.1%) $41,881 (17.2%) $46,378 (16.9%) · · · Radar and night vision systems Airframe control and actuation Semiconductor equipment Other $10,846 (5.8%) $15,604 (6.4%) $16,574 (6.1%) · · Precision ground ball screws for robotic handling and missile guidance Collets for machine tools Plain Bearings. Plain bearings are primarily used to rectify inevitable misalignments in various mechanical components, such as aircraft controls, helicopter rotors, or in heavy mining and construction equipment. Such misalignments are 4 either due to machining inaccuracies or result when components change position relative to each other. Plain bearings are produced with either self-lubricating or metal-to-metal designs and consist of several sub-classes, including rod end bearings, spherical plain bearings and journal bearings. Sales of plain bearings accounted for 41.9% of our net sales in fiscal 2006. Roller Bearings. Roller bearings are anti-friction products that utilize cylindrical rolling elements. We produce three main designs: tapered roller bearings, needle roller bearings and needle bearing track rollers and cam followers. We produce medium sized tapered roller bearings used primarily in heavy truck axle applications. We offer several needle roller bearing designs that are used in both industrial applications and certain U.S. military aircraft platforms. These products are generally specified for use where there are high loads and the design is constrained by space considerations. A significant portion of the sales of this product is to the aftermarket. Needle bearing track rollers and cam followers have wide and diversified use in the industrial market and are often prescribed as a primary component in articulated aircraft wings. We believe we are the world’s largest producer of aircraft needle bearing track rollers. The sale of roller bearings accounted for 35.1% of our net sales in fiscal 2006. Ball Bearings. Ball bearings are devices which utilize high precision ball elements to reduce friction in high speed applications. We specialize in four main types of ball bearings: high precision aerospace, airframe control, thin section and industrial ball bearings. High precision aerospace bearings are primarily sold to customers in the defense industry that require more technically sophisticated bearing products, such as missile guidance systems, providing higher degrees of fault tolerance given the criticality of the applications in which they are used. Airframe control ball bearings are precision ball bearings that are plated to resist corrosion and are qualified under a military specification. Thin section ball bearings are specialized bearings that use extremely thin cross sections and give specialized machinery manufacturers many advantages. We produce a general line of industrial ball bearings sold primarily to the aftermarket. Ball bearings accounted for 16.9% of our net sales in fiscal 2006. Other. Our other products consist primarily of precision linear precision products and machine tool collets. Linear products are precision ground ball bearing screws that offer repeatable positioning accuracy in defense, machine tools, robotic handling and semiconductor equipment. We also have several application development programs for linear precision products in progress in guided missile, unmanned aircraft, and “smart bomb” applications. Machine tool collets are cone-shaped metal sleeves, used for holding circular or rodlike pieces in a lathe or other machine, that provide effective part holding and accurate part location during machining operations. Our other products accounted for 6.1% of our net sales in fiscal 2006. Product Design and Development We produce specialized bearings which are often tailored to the specifications of a customer or application. Our sales professionals are highly experienced engineers who collaborate with our customers on a continual basis to develop bearing solutions. The product development cycle can follow many paths which are dependent on the end market or channel. The process normally takes between 3-6 years from concept to sale depending upon the application and the market. A common route that is used for major OEM projects begins when our design engineers meet with their customer counterparts at the machine design conceptualization stage and work with them through the conclusion of the product development. Often, at the early stage, a bearing design concept is produced that addresses the expected demands of the application. Environmental demands are many but normally include load, stress, heat, thermal gradients, vibration, lubricant supply, corrosion resistance, with one or two of these environmental constraints being predominant in the design consideration. A bearing design must perform reliably for a period of time specified by the customer’s product objectives. Once a bearing is designed, a mathematical simulation is created to replicate the expected application environment and thus allow optimization with respect to these design variables. Upon conclusion of the design and simulation phase, samples are produced and laboratory testing commences at one of our test laboratories. The purpose of this testing phase is not only to verify the design and the simulation model but also to allow further design improvement where needed. Finally, upon successful field testing by the customer, the product is ready for sale. For the majority of our products, the culmination of this lengthy process is the receipt of a product approval or certification, generally obtained from either the OEM, the Department of Defense or the FAA which allows us to supply the product to the customer. We currently have in excess of 32,000 such approvals, which often gives us a significant competitive advantage, and in many of these instances we are the only approved supplier of a given bearing product. Manufacturing and Operations Our manufacturing strategies are focused on product reliability, quality and service. Custom and standard products are produced according to manufacturing schedules that ensure maximum availability of popular items for immediate sale while 5 carefully considering the economies of lot production and special products. Capital programs and manufacturing methods development are focused on quality improvement and low production costs. A monthly review of product line production performance assures an environment of continuous attainment of profitability goals. Capacity. Our plants currently run on a single shift, and light second and third shifts at selected locations, to meet the demands of our customers. We believe that current capacity levels and future annual estimated capital expenditures on equipment up to approximately 4% of net sales should permit us to effectively meet demand levels for the foreseeable future. We also believe that we have the ability to increase capacity and move to full second or third shifts when required. Inventory Management. Our increasing emphasis on the distributor/aftermarket sector has required us to maintain greater inventories of a broader range of products than the OEM market historically demanded. We operate an inventory management program designed to balance customer delivery requirements with economically optimal inventory levels. In this program, each product is categorized based on characteristics including order frequency, number of customers and sales volume. Using this classification system, our primary goal is to maintain a sufficient supply of standard items while minimizing warehousing costs. In addition, production cost savings are achieved by optimizing plant scheduling around inventory levels and customer delivery requirements. This leads to more efficient utilization of manufacturing facilities and minimizes plant production changes while maintaining sufficient inventories to service customer needs. Sales, Marketing and Distribution Our marketing strategy is aimed at increasing sales within our two primary markets, targeting specific applications in which we can exploit our competitive strengths. To effect this strategy, we seek to expand into geographic areas not previously served by us and we continue to capitalize on new markets and industries for existing and new products. We employ a technically proficient sales force and utilize marketing managers, product managers, customer service representatives and product application engineers in our selling efforts. We have accelerated the development of our sales force through the hiring of sales personnel with prior bearing industry experience, complemented by an in-house training program. We intend to continue to hire and develop expert sales professionals and strategically locate them to implement our expansion strategy. Today, our direct sales force is located to service North America, Europe and Latin America and is responsible for selling all of our products. This selling model leverages our relationship with key customers and provides opportunities to market multiple product lines to both established and potential customers. We also sell our products through a well-established, global network of industrial and aerospace distributors. This channel primarily provides our products to smaller OEM customers and the end users of bearings that require local inventory and service. In addition, specific larger OEM customers are also serviced through this channel to facilitate requirements for “Just In Time” deliveries or “Kan Ban” systems. Our worldwide distributor network provides our customers with more than 1,500 points of sale for our products. We intend to continue to focus on building distributor sales volume. The sale of our products is supported by a well-trained and experienced customer service organization. This organization provides customers with instant access to key information regarding their bearing purchase and delivery requirements. We also provide customers with updated information through our web site, and we have developed on-line integration with specific customers, enabling more efficient ordering and timely order fulfillment for those customers. We store product inventory in four company-owned and operated warehouses located on the East and West coasts of the U.S., and in France and Switzerland. The inventory is located in these warehouses based on thorough analysis of customer demand to provide superior service and product availability to our customers. Competition Our principal competitors include Kaydon Corporation, New Hampshire Ball Bearings and McGill Manufacturing Company, Inc., although we compete with different companies for each of our product lines. We believe that for the majority of our products, the principal competitive factors affecting our business are product qualifications, product line breadth, service and price. Although some of our current and potential competitors may have greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than us, we believe that we are well positioned to compete with regard to each of these factors in each of the markets in which we operate. Product Qualifications. Many of the products we produce are qualified for the application by the OEM, the U.S. Department of Defense, the FAA or a combination of these agencies. These credentials have been achieved for thousands of distinct items after years of design, testing and improvement. In many cases patent protection presides, in all cases there is strong brand identity and in numerous cases we have the exclusive product for the application. 6 Product Line Breadth. Our products encompass an extraordinarily broad range of designs which often create a critical mass of complementary bearings and components for our markets. This position allows many of our industrial and aircraft customers the ability for a single manufacturer to provide the engineering service and product breadth needed to achieve a series of OEM design objectives or aftermarket requirements. This ability enhances our value to the OEM considerably while strengthening our overall market position. Service. Product design, performance, reliability, availability, quality, technical and administrative support are elements that define the service standard for this business. Our customers are sophisticated and demanding, as our products are fundamental and enabling components to the construction or operating of their machinery. We maintain inventory levels of our most popular items for immediate sale and service well over 15,000 voice and electronic contacts per month. Our customers have high expectations regarding product availability, and the primary emphasis of our service efforts is to ensure the widest possible range of available products and delivering them on a timely basis. Price. We believe our products are priced competitively in the markets we serve. We continually evaluate our manufacturing and other operations to maximize efficiencies in order to reduce costs, eliminate unprofitable products from our portfolio and maximize our profit margins. While we compete with larger bearing manufacturers who direct the majority of their business activities, investments and expertise toward the automotive industries, our sales in this industry are only a small percentage of our business. We invest considerable effort to develop our price to value algorithms and we price to market levels where required by competitive pressures. Suppliers and Raw Materials We obtain raw materials, component parts and supplies from a variety of sources and generally from more than one supplier. Our principal raw material is steel. Our suppliers and sources of raw materials are based in the U.S., Europe and Asia. We purchase steel at market prices, which during the past two years have increased to historical highs as a result of a relatively low level of supply and a relatively high level of demand. To date, we have generally managed to pass through these raw material price increases to our customers by assessing steel surcharges on, or price increases of, our bearing products. However, we have from time to time experienced a time lag of up to 12 weeks or more in our ability to pass through steel surcharges to our customers which has negatively impacted our gross margins. We will continue to pass on raw material price increases as competitive conditions allow. Because of extraordinarily high demand for certain grades of steel, suppliers have in some instances allocated certain types of steel in limited quantities to customers. However, to date, we have never experienced a work stoppage due to a supply shortage. We believe that our sources for raw materials, including steel, are adequate for our needs in the foreseeable future, that there exist alternative suppliers for our raw materials and that in most cases readily available alternative materials can be used for most of our raw materials. However, we cannot provide any assurances of the availability or the prices thereof. We do not believe that the loss of any one supplier would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We have not been significantly impacted by recent increases in energy prices because energy costs, the most significant component of which is natural gas used in heat treating operations, represent less than 4% of our overall costs. Backlog As of April 1, 2006, we had an order backlog of $160.8 million, as compared to a backlog of $134.8 million in the prior year. The amount of backlog includes orders which we estimate will be fulfilled within the next 12 months; however, orders included in our backlog are subject to cancellation, delay or other modifications by our customers prior to fulfillment. We sell many of our products pursuant to contractual agreements, single source relationships or long-term purchase orders, each of which may permit early termination by the customer. However, due to the nature of many of the products supplied by us and the lack of availability of alternative suppliers to meet the demands of such customers’ orders in a timely manner, we believe that it is not practical or prudent for most of our customers to shift their bearing business to other suppliers. Employees We had approximately 1,213 hourly employees and 532 salaried employees as of April 1, 2006, of whom 261 were employed in our European and Mexican operations. As of April 1, 2006, approximately 891 of our hourly employees, or 74%, were non-unionized. We believe that our employee relations are satisfactory. We are subject to several collective bargaining agreements covering unionized workers, as follows: 7 · collective bargaining agreements with the United Auto Workers covering substantially all of the hourly employees at our West Trenton, New Jersey, Fairfield, Connecticut and Bremen, Indiana plants. These agreements expire on June 30, 2007, January 31, 2008 and October 31, 2009, respectively; and · a collective bargaining agreement with the United Steelworkers covering substantially all the hourly employees at our Glasgow, Kentucky plant. This agreement expires on June 13, 2008. On February 15, 2006, our RBC Nice Bearings, Inc. subsidiary and the United Steelworkers of America (AFL-CIO) Local 6816-12 entered into a shutdown agreement in connection with our decision to close operations at our Kulpsville, Pennsylvania facility. In connection with the shutdown agreement, the union has agreed to take no action against us in connection with such shutdown. The agreement also addresses closure and other transition issues related to pensions, workers compensation, adjustment assistance and other matters. The production conducted at the Nice facility has been moved to other RBC locations, and we anticipate no material impact on production or our ability to service our customers. Intellectual Property We own U.S. and foreign patents and trademark registrations and U.S. copyright registrations, and have U.S. trademark and patent applications pending. We currently have approximately 17 U.S. patents and patent applications and a few foreign patents. We file patent applications and maintain patents to protect certain technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business, and we file trademark applications and maintain trademark registrations to protect product names that have achieved brand-name recognition among our customers. We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. We believe our trade-secrets, know-how, innovations and product approvals are significantly more important to the success of our business and ability to maintain our competitive position than our patents. Many of our brands are well recognized by our customers and are considered valuable assets of our business. We currently have approximately 78 U.S. trademark registrations and applications and a significant number of foreign trademark registrations. We do not believe, however, that any individual item of intellectual property is material to our business. See “Risk Factors.” Regulation Product Approvals. Essential to servicing the aerospace market is the ability to obtain product approvals. We have in excess of 32,000 product approvals in the form of OEM approvals or Parts Manufacturer Approvals (PMA) from the FAA. We have received over 2,400 PMA approvals to date and have approximately 633 active PMA applications in process. These approvals enable us to provide products used in virtually all domestic aircraft platforms presently in production or operation. The costs of obtaining required product approvals are not directly tracked, but are included in our manufacturing overhead and SG&A costs. We do not directly pass these costs on to our customers, but they are reflected indirectly in our overall product pricing. We are subject to various other federal laws, regulations and standards. Although we are not presently aware of any pending legal or regulatory changes that may have a material impact on us, new laws, regulations or standards or changes to existing laws, regulations or standards could subject us to significant additional costs of compliance or liabilities, and could result in material reductions to our results of operations, cash flow or revenues. Environmental Matters We are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the storage, handling and disposal of wastes and the health and safety of employees. We also may be liable under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act or similar state laws for the costs of investigation and clean-up of contamination at facilities currently or formerly owned or operated by us, or at other facilities at which we have disposed of hazardous substances. In connection with such contamination, we may also be liable for natural resource damages, government penalties and claims by third parties for personal injury and property damage. Agencies responsible for enforcing these laws have authority to impose significant civil or criminal penalties for non-compliance. We believe we are currently in material compliance with all applicable requirements of environmental laws. We do not anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental controls in fiscal 2007. Investigation and remediation of contamination is ongoing at some of our sites. In particular, state agencies have been overseeing groundwater monitoring activities at our facilities in Hartsville, South Carolina and Fairfield, Connecticut. At Hartsville, we are monitoring low levels of contaminants in the groundwater caused by former operations. The state will permit 8 us to cease monitoring activities after two consecutive sampling periods demonstrate contaminants are below action levels. In connection with the purchase of our Fairfield, Connecticut facility in 1996, we agreed to assume responsibility for completing clean-up efforts previously initiated by the prior owner. We submitted data to the state that we believe demonstrates that no further remedial action is necessary although the state may require additional clean-up or monitoring. Although there can be no assurance, we do not expect any of those to be material. We received notice in 2003 from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that we had been named a potentially responsible de minimis party for past disposal of hazardous substances at the Operating Industries, Inc.’s landfill in Monterey, California. Any such disposal would have been conducted prior to our ownership, and we notified the former owners of a potential claim for indemnification pursuant to the terms of our asset purchase agreements. We are currently negotiating a de minimis settlement with the U.S. EPA and expect that any settlement, even if we are unsuccessful in obtaining indemnification, will not be material to our results of operations or to our business. Available Information We file our annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The public may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 405 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that are filed by us at http://www.sec.gov. In addition, this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to all of the foregoing reports, are made available free of charge on our Internet website ( http://www.rbcbearings.com ) as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. A copy of the above filings will also be provided free of charge upon written request to us. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Statement As To Forward-Looking Information This report includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements of historical fact are “forward-looking statements” for purposes of federal and state securities laws, including any projections of earnings, revenue or other financial items; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations; any statements concerning proposed new services or developments; any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance; future growth rates in the markets we serve; increases in foreign sales; supply and cost of raw materials, any statements of belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements may include the words “may,” “estimate,” “intend,” “continue,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in any of our forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in any of our forward-looking statements. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to change and to inherent risks and uncertainties, such as those disclosed in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Factors that could cause our actual results, performance and achievements or industry results to differ materially from estimates or projections contained in forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: Additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements are set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including under Item 1. “Business,” Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” We are not under any duty to update any forward-looking statements after the date of this report to conform such statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations. All forward-looking statements contained in this report and any subsequently filed reports are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. 9 Our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected by any of the following risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. You should carefully consider these risks before investing in shares of our common stock. Risk Factors Related to Our Company The bearing industry is highly competitive, and this competition could reduce our profitability or limit our ability to grow. The global bearing industry is highly competitive, and we compete with many U.S. and non-U.S. companies, some of which benefit from lower labor costs and fewer regulatory burdens than us. We compete primarily based on product qualifications, product line breadth, service and price. Certain competitors are larger than us or subsidiaries of larger entities and may be better able to manage costs than us or may have greater financial resources than we have. Due to the competitiveness in the bearing industry we may not be able to increase prices for our products to cover increases in our costs, or we may face pressure to reduce prices, which could materially reduce our revenues, gross margin and profitability. Competitive factors, including changes in market penetration, increased price competition and the introduction of new products and technology by existing and new competitors could result in a material reduction in our revenues and profitability. The loss of a major customer could result in a material reduction in our revenues and profitability. Our top ten customers generated 32% of our net sales during fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006. Accordingly, the loss of one or more of those customers or a substantial decrease in such customers’ purchases from us could result in a material reduction in our revenues and profitability. In addition, the consolidation and combination of defense or other manufacturers may eliminate customers from the industry and/or put downward pricing pressures on sales of component parts. For example, the consolidation that has occurred in the defense industry in recent years has significantly reduced the overall number of defense contractors in the industry. In addition, if one of our customers is acquired or merged with another entity, the new entity may discontinue using us as a supplier because of an existing business relationship with the acquiring company or because it may be more efficient to consolidate certain suppliers within the newly formed enterprise. The significance of the impact that such consolidation may have on our business is difficult to predict because we do not know when or if one or more of our customers will engage in merger or acquisition activity. However, if such activity involved our material customers it could materially impact our revenues and profitability. Weakness in any of the industries in which our customers operate, as well as the cyclical nature of our customers’ businesses generally, could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. The commercial aerospace, mining and construction equipment and other diversified industrial industries to which we sell our products are, to varying degrees, cyclical and tend to decline in response to overall declines in industrial production. Margins in those industries are highly sensitive to demand cycles, and our customers in those industries historically have tended to delay large capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades, during economic downturns. As a result, our business is also cyclical, and the demand for our products by these customers depends, in part, on overall levels of industrial production, general economic conditions and business confidence levels. Downward economic cycles have affected our customers and reduced sales of our products resulting in reductions in our revenues and net earnings. Any future material weakness in demand in any of these industries could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. In addition, many of our customers have historically experienced periodic downturns, which often have had a negative effect on demand for our products. For example, the severe downturn in 2001 in the aerospace industry resulted in deferrals or cancellations in aircraft orders, which reduced the volume and price of orders placed for products used to manufacture commercial aircraft, including our bearings and other individual parts and components we manufacture. Previous industry downturns have negatively affected, and future industry downturns may negatively affect, our net sales, gross margin and net income. Future reductions or changes in U.S. government spending could negatively affect our business. In fiscal 2006, 6.6% of our net sales were made directly, and we estimate that approximately an additional 10.2% of our net sales were made indirectly, to the U.S. government to support military or other government projects. Our failure to obtain new government contracts, the cancellation of government contracts or reductions in federal budget appropriations regarding our products could result in materially reduced revenue. In addition, the funding of defense programs also competes with non- 10 defense spending of the U.S. government. Our business is sensitive to changes in national and international priorities and the U.S. government budget. A shift in government defense spending to other programs in which we are not involved or a reduction in U.S. government defense spending generally could materially reduce our revenues, cash flow from operations and profitability. If we, or our prime contractors for which we are a subcontractor, fail to win any particular bid, or we are unable to replace lost business as a result of a cancellation, expiration or completion of a contract, our revenues or cash flow could be reduced. Fluctuating supply and costs of raw materials and energy resources could materially reduce our revenues, cash flow from operations and profitability. Our business is dependent on the availability and costs of energy resources and raw materials, particularly steel, generally in the form of stainless and chrome steel, which are commodity steel products. Raw materials and purchased components represented approximately 30% of our overall costs for fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006, the majority of which consisted of steel and related products. The availability and prices of raw materials and energy sources may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, new laws or regulations, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, changes in exchange rates and worldwide price levels. Although we currently maintain alternative sources for raw materials, our business is subject to the risk of price fluctuations and periodic delays in the delivery of certain raw materials. Disruptions in the supply of raw materials and energy resources could temporarily impair our ability to manufacture our products for our customers or require us to pay higher prices in order to obtain these raw materials or energy resources from other sources, which could thereby affect our net sales and profitability. For example, we purchase steel at market prices, which during the past two years have increased to historical highs as a result of a relatively low level of supply and a relatively high level of demand. As a result, we are currently being assessed surcharges on certain of our purchases of steel, and under certain circumstances, we have experienced difficulty in identifying steel for purchase. If we are unable to purchase steel for our operations for a significant period of time, our operations would be disrupted, which could reduce or delay sales of our products, and, in turn, could result in a material reduction in our revenues, cash flow from operations and profitability. In addition, we may be unable to pass on the increased costs of raw materials to our customers, which could materially reduce our cash flow from operations and profitability. We seek to pass through a significant portion of our additional costs to our customers through steel surcharges or price increases. However, even if we are able to pass these steel surcharges or price increases to our customers, there may be a time lag of up to 12 weeks or more between the time a cost increase goes into effect and our ability to implement surcharges or price increases, particularly for orders already in our backlog. As a result our gross margin percentage may decline, and we may not be able to implement other price increases for our products. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to continue to pass these additional costs on to our customers at all or on a timely basis or that our customers will not seek alternative sources of supply if there are significant or prolonged increases in the price of steel or other raw materials or energy resources. We may not be able to address technological advances or maintain customer relationships which are necessary to remain competitive within our businesses. We believe that our customers rigorously evaluate their suppliers on the basis of product quality, price competitiveness, technical expertise, new product innovation, reliability and timeliness of delivery, product design capability, manufacturing expertise, operational flexibility and customer service. Our success will depend on our ability to continue to meet our customers’ changing specifications with respect to these criteria. We must remain committed to product research and development, advanced manufacturing techniques and service to remain competitive. We may not be able to address technological advances in metallurgy or in materials science or introduce new products that may be necessary to remain competitive within our businesses, or our competitors may develop products superior to our products. Furthermore, we may be unable to adequately protect any of our own technological developments to produce a sustainable competitive advantage. Our products are subject to certain approvals, and the loss of such approvals could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. Essential to servicing the aerospace market is the ability to obtain product approvals. We have in excess of 32,000 product approvals, which enable us to provide products used in virtually all domestic aircraft platforms presently in production or operation. Product approvals are typically issued by the Federal Aviation Administration, or FAA, to designated OEMs who are Production Approval Holders of FAA approved aircraft. These Production Approval Holders provide quality control oversight and generally limit the number of suppliers directly servicing the commercial aerospace aftermarket. Regulations enacted by the FAA provide for an independent process (the Parts Manufacturer Approval, or PMA, process), which enables suppliers who currently sell their products to the Production Approval Holders, to sell products to the aftermarket. We have 11 received over 2,400 PMA application approvals to date. Our foreign sales may be subject to similar approvals. Although we have not lost any material product approvals in the past, we cannot assure you that we will not lose approvals for our products in the future. The loss of product approvals could result in lost sales and materially reduce our revenues and profitability. Under certain circumstances, the U.S. government has the right to debar or suspend us from acting as a U.S. government contractor or subcontractor, and if we are suspended or debarred from acting as a government supplier for any reason, such an action would materially reduce our revenues and profitability. In connection with our performance of government contracts, the federal government audits and reviews our performance, pricing practices and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. It is possible that as a result of these audits, our revenues, cash flow or results of operations could be materially reduced as a result of lost sales or penalties. For example, the government could disallow certain costs that it originally reimbursed, and we may be required to refund cash already collected. It is also possible that a government audit, review or investigation could uncover improper or illegal activities that would subject us to civil, criminal and/or administrative sanctions, including, but not limited to, termination of contracts, reimbursement of payments received, fines, forfeiture of profits and suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. If any allegations of impropriety were made against us, whether or not true, our reputation could be adversely affected. If we were suspended or debarred from contracting with the federal government, or any specific agency, if our reputation was impaired or if the government ceased or significantly decreased the amount of business it does with us, our revenues and cash flow could be reduced. As a government contractor, we are also subject to various federal laws, regulations and standards. New laws, regulations or standards or changes to existing laws, regulations or standards could subject us to additional costs of compliance or liabilities and could result in material reductions to our results of operations, cash flow or revenues. We have outstanding debt, and may incur additional debt in the future for acquisitions or other purposes, which could materially impact our business. As of April 1, 2006, we had total indebtedness of $165.7 million. To service our debt, we will require a significant amount of cash. On April 18, 2006, we repaid approximately $67.0 million on our Senior Credit Facility from equity sales proceeds and free cash flow. Our ability to generate cash, make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations depends on our successful financial and operating performance. Our financial and operating performance, cash flow and capital resources depend upon prevailing economic conditions and certain financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future for acquisitions and other purposes, and the significant debt servicing costs associated with that indebtedness could have significant effects on our operations, including: · limit our ability to obtain additional financing to operate our business; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our debt, reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general operational requirements; · limit our flexibility to plan for and react to changes in our business or industry; · place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to some of our competitors that have less debt than us; and · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in interest rates or a downturn in our business or the economy. The occurrence of any one of these events could materially impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to grow our business. Restrictions in our indebtedness agreements could limit our growth and our ability to respond to changing conditions. The Senior Credit Facility and our Swiss franc 14.0 million Swiss credit facility (approximately $3.8 million outstanding as of April 1, 2006), or Swiss Credit Facility, contain a number of restrictive covenants that limit our ability, among other things, to: · incur additional indebtedness and issue preferred stock and guarantee indebtedness; 12 · create liens on our assets; · pay dividends or make other equity distributions; · purchase or redeem capital stock; · create restrictions on payments of dividends or other amounts to us by our restricted subsidiaries; · make investments; · merge, consolidate or sell assets; · engage in activities unrelated to our current business; · engage in transactions with our affiliates; and · sell or issue capital stock of certain subsidiaries. In addition, the Senior Credit Facility contains other financial covenants requiring us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and maximum senior leverage ratios and to satisfy certain other financial conditions. Our Senior Credit Facility prohibits us from incurring capital expenditures of more than $15 million per year. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. As of April 1, 2006, we had no outstanding borrowings and letters of credit of $20.6 million under our $55.0 million Revolving Credit Facility. Under the Revolving Credit Facility, we had borrowing availability of $34.4 million as of April 1, 2006. Under the revolving credit facility under our Swiss Credit Facility, or Swiss Revolver, we had borrowing availability of approximately $3.1 million (4.0 million SFr) as of April 1, 2006. Work stoppages and other labor problems could materially reduce our ability to operate our business. As of April 1, 2006, approximately 26% of our hourly employees in the U.S. and abroad were represented by labor unions. While we believe our relations with our employees are satisfactory, a lengthy strike or other work stoppage at any of our facilities, particularly at some of our larger facilities, could materially reduce our ability to operate our business. In addition, any attempt by our employees not currently represented by a union to join a union could result in additional expenses, including with respect to wages, benefits and pension obligations. We currently have four collective bargaining agreements, one agreement covering approximately 54 employees will expire in June 2007, one agreement covering approximately 38 employees will expire in October 2009, one agreement covering approximately 73 employees will expire in January 2008 and one agreement covering approximately 114 employees will expire in June 2008. In February 2006 we entered into a shutdown agreement which effectively terminated one collective bargaining agreement covering approximately 43 employees. We expect that the facility will be shutdown in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. We expect that such shutdown will not be material to our operations or financial results. Negotiations for the extension of these agreements may result in modifications to the terms of these agreements, and these modifications could cause us to incur increased costs relating to our labor force. In addition, work stoppages at one or more of our customers or suppliers, including suppliers of transportation services, many of which have large unionized workforces, for labor or other reasons could also cause disruptions to our business that we cannot control, and these disruptions may materially reduce our revenues and profitability. Our business is capital intensive and may consume cash in excess of cash flow from our operations. Our ability to remain competitive, sustain our growth and expand our operations largely depends on our cash flow from operations and our access to capital. We intend to fund our cash needs through operating cash flow and borrowings under our Senior Credit Facility. We may require additional equity or debt financing to fund our growth and debt repayment obligations. In addition, we may need additional capital to fund future acquisitions. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow, and we may not be able to obtain sufficient funds to enable us to pay our debt obligations and capital expenditures or we may not be 13 able to refinance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity.” Unexpected equipment failures, catastrophic events or capacity constraints may increase our costs and reduce our sales due to production curtailments or shutdowns. Our manufacturing processes are dependent upon critical pieces of equipment, such as furnaces, continuous casters and rolling equipment, as well as electrical equipment, such as transformers, and this equipment may, on occasion, be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures. In addition to equipment failures, our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions, earthquakes or violent weather conditions. In the future, we may experience material plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of these types of equipment failures or catastrophes. Interruptions in production capabilities will inevitably increase our production costs and reduce sales and earnings for the affected period. Certain of our facilities are operating at a single shift with light second and third shifts, and additional demand may require additional shifts and/or capital investments at these facilities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to add additional shifts as needed in a timely way and production constraints may result in lost sales. In certain markets we refrain from making additional capital investments to expand capacity where we believe market expansion in a particular end market is not sustainable or otherwise does not justify the expansion or capital investment. Our assumptions and forecasts regarding market conditions in these end markets may be erroneous and may result in lost earnings, potential sales going to competitors and inhibit our growth. The occurrence of extraordinary events, such as a major terrorist attack in the U.S., may adversely affect our business, resulting in a decrease in our revenues. Future terrorist attacks cannot be predicted, and their occurrence can be expected to negatively affect the economy of the U.S. and other countries in which we do business. Such attacks may have a material impact on the markets in which we operate, particularly commercial aerospace, as increased terrorist activity around the world is likely to cause a reduction in air travel. For example, in the period following September 11, 2001, aircraft orders declined significantly and materially reduced our sales to the aerospace market. Similar effects are likely to result if there is a significant increase in terrorist activity around the world, particularly if commercial airliners are again involved in one or more major terrorist incidents. Other kinds of significant terror incidents may also impair our ability to conduct our manufacturing and other business activities for extended periods depending on the nature and severity of the event. We may not be able to continue to make the acquisitions necessary for us to realize our growth strategy. The acquisition of businesses that complement or expand our operations has been and continues to be an important element of our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in identifying attractive acquisition candidates or completing acquisitions on favorable terms in the future. Our inability to acquire businesses, or to operate them profitably once acquired, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, cash flow and growth. The costs and difficulties of integrating acquired businesses could impede our future growth. We cannot assure you that any future acquisition will enhance our financial performance. Our ability to effectively integrate any future acquisitions will depend on, among other things, the adequacy of our implementation plans, the ability of our management to oversee and operate effectively the combined operations and our ability to achieve desired operating efficiencies and sales goals. The integration of any acquired businesses might cause us to incur unforeseen costs, which would lower our future earnings and would prevent us from realizing the expected benefits of these acquisitions. Even if we are able to integrate future acquired businesses with our operations successfully, we cannot assure you that we will realize all of the cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements that we anticipate from such integration or that we will realize such benefits within the expected time frame. We depend heavily on our senior management and other key personnel, the loss of whom could materially affect our financial performance and prospects. Our business is managed by a small number of key executive officers, including Dr. Michael J. Hartnett. Our future success will depend on, among other things, our ability to keep the services of these executives and to hire other highly qualified 14 employees at all levels. Dr. Hartnett is the only member of our senior management team with a long-term employment contract. The remainder of our key executives are at-will employees. We compete with other potential employers for employees, and we may not be successful in hiring and retaining executives and other skilled employees that we need. Our ability to successfully execute our business strategy, market and develop our products and serve our customers could be adversely affected by a shortage of available skilled employees or executives. Our international operations are subject to risks inherent in such activities. We have established operations in certain countries outside the U.S., including Mexico, France and Switzerland. Of our 18 facilities, 4 are located outside the U.S., including 2 manufacturing facilities. Approximately 20% of our net sales were derived from sales directly or indirectly outside the U.S. for fiscal 2006. We expect that this proportion is likely to increase as we seek to increase our penetration of foreign markets, including through acquisitions, particularly within the aerospace and defense markets. Our foreign operations are subject to the risks inherent in such activities such as: currency devaluations, logistical and communications challenges, costs of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, greater difficulties in protecting and maintaining our rights to intellectual property, difficulty in staffing and managing geographically diverse operations, acts of terrorism or war or other acts that may cause social disruption which are difficult to quantify or predict and general economic conditions in these foreign markets. We are not aware of any proposed material regulatory changes, but our international operations may be negatively impacted by changes in government policies, such as changes in laws and regulations (or the interpretation thereof), restrictions on imports and exports, sources of supply, duties or tariffs, the introduction of measures to control inflation and changes in the rate or method of taxation. To date we have not experienced significant difficulties with the foregoing risks associated with our international operations, however, as the size of our international operations has continued to grow, we expect these risks to become increasingly important to our business operations. Currency translation risks may have a material impact on our results of operations. Our Swiss operations utilize the Swiss franc as the functional currency and our French operations utilize the Euro as the functional currency. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are included in earnings. Foreign currency transaction exposure arises primarily from the transfer of foreign currency from one subsidiary to another within the group and to foreign currency denominated trade receivables. Unrealized currency translation gains and losses are recognized upon translation of the foreign subsidiaries’ balance sheets to U.S. dollars. Because our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our earnings. While we monitor exchange rates, we currently do not have exchange rate hedges in place to reduce the risk of an adverse currency exchange movement. Although currency fluctuations have not had a material impact on our financial performance in the past, such fluctuations may affect our financial performance in the future. The impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations cannot be accurately predicted. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Foreign Currency Exchange Rates.” Our pension plans are underfunded, and we may be required to make significant future contributions to the plans. As of April 1, 2006, we maintained noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of our union employees in our Heim division plant in Fairfield, Connecticut, our Nice subsidiary plant in Kulpsville, Pennsylvania, our Bremen subsidiary plant in Plymouth, Indiana and our Tyson subsidiary plant in Glasgow, Kentucky. As of April 1, 2006, our plans were underfunded by $3.8 million, which is the amount by which the accumulated benefit obligations exceed the sum of the fair market value of plans’ assets. We are required to make cash contributions to our pension plans to the extent necessary to comply with minimum funding requirements imposed by employee benefit and tax laws. The amount of any such required contributions is determined based on annual actuarial valuation of the plans as performed by the plans’ actuaries. The amount of future contributions will depend upon asset returns, then-current discount rates and a number of other factors, and, as a result, the amount we may elect or be required to contribute to our pension plans in the future may increase significantly. Additionally, there is a risk that if the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation concludes that its risk with respect to our pension plans may increase unreasonably if the plans continue to operate, if we are unable to satisfy the minimum funding requirement for the plans or if the plans become unable to pay benefits, then the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation could terminate the plans and take control of their assets. In such event, we may be required to make an immediate payment to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation of all or a substantial portion of the underfunding as calculated by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation based upon its own assumptions. The underfunding calculated by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation could be substantially greater than the underfunding we have calculated because, for example, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation may use a 15 significantly lower discount rate. If such payment is not made, then the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation could place liens on a material portion of our assets and the assets of any members of our controlled group. Such action could result in a material increase in our pension related expenses and a corresponding reduction in our cash flow and net income. For additional information concerning our pension plans and plan liabilities, see Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2006. We may incur material losses for product liability and recall related claims. We are subject to a risk of product and recall related liability in the event that the failure of any of our products results in personal injury or death, property damage or does not conform to our customers’ specifications. In particular, our products are installed in a number of types of vehicle fleets, including airplanes, trains, automobiles, heavy trucks and farm equipment, many of which are subject to government ordered as well as voluntary recalls by the manufacturer. If one of our products is found to be defective, causes a fleet to be disabled or otherwise results in a product recall, significant claims may be brought against us. Although we have not had any material product liability or recall related claims made against us, and we currently maintain product liability insurance coverage for product liability, although not for recall related claims, we cannot assure you that product liability or recall related claims, if made, would not exceed our insurance coverage limits or would be covered by insurance which, in turn, may result in material losses related to these claims, increased future insurance costs and a corresponding reduction in our cash flow and net income. Environmental regulations impose substantial costs and limitations on our operations, and environmental compliance may be more costly than we expect. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the storage, handling and disposal of wastes and the health and safety of employees. These laws and regulations could subject us to material costs and liabilities, including compliance costs, civil and criminal fines imposed for failure to comply with these laws and regulations and litigation costs. We also may be liable under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, or similar state laws, for the costs of investigation and clean-up of contamination at facilities currently or formerly owned or operated by us or at other facilities at which we have disposed of hazardous substances. In connection with such contamination, we may also be liable for natural resource damages, government penalties and claims by third parties for personal injury and property damage. Compliance with these laws and regulations may prove to be more limiting and costly than we anticipate. New laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could cause a material increase in our environmental related compliance costs and a corresponding reduction in our cash flow and net income. Investigation and remediation of contamination at some of our sites is ongoing. Actual costs to clean-up these sites may exceed our current estimates. Although we have indemnities for certain pre-closing environmental liabilities from the prior owners in connection with our acquisition of several of our facilities, we cannot assure you that the indemnities will be adequate to cover known or newly discovered pre-closing liabilities. Our intellectual property and other proprietary rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could adversely affect our business and results of operations; in addition, we may be subject to infringement claims by third parties. Our ability to compete effectively is dependent upon our ability to protect and preserve the intellectual property and other proprietary rights and materials owned, licensed or otherwise used by us. We have numerous U.S. and foreign patents, U.S. trademark registrations and U.S. copyright registrations. Our issued patents are expected to expire by their own terms at various dates and most such patents will not expire for at least 5 years. We also have U.S. trademark and patent applications pending. We cannot assure you that our pending trademark and patent applications will result in trademark registrations and issued patents, and our failure to secure rights under these applications may limit our ability to protect the intellectual property rights that these applications were intended to cover. Although we have attempted to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights both in the United States and in foreign countries through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection and non-disclosure agreements, these steps may be insufficient to prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, particularly in foreign countries where the protection available for such intellectual property and other proprietary rights may be limited. To date we are not currently engaged in and have not had any material infringement or other claims pertaining to our intellectual property brought by us or against us in recent years. We cannot assure you that any of our intellectual property rights will not be infringed upon or that our trade secrets will not be misappropriated or otherwise become known to or independently developed by competitors. We may not have adequate remedies available for any such infringement or other unauthorized use. We cannot assure you that any infringement claims asserted by us will not result in our intellectual property being challenged or invalidated, that our intellectual property will be held to be of adequate scope to protect our business or that we will be able to deter current and former employees, contractors or 16 other parties from breaching confidentiality obligations and misappropriating trade secrets. In addition, we may become subject to claims against us which could require us to pay damages or limit our ability to use certain intellectual property and other proprietary rights found to be in violation of a third party’s rights, and, in the event such litigation is successful, we may be unable to use such intellectual property and other proprietary rights at all or on reasonable terms. Regardless of its outcome, any litigation, whether commenced by us or third parties, could be protracted and costly and could result in increased litigation related expenses, the loss of intellectual property rights or payment of money or other damages, which may result in lost sales and reduced cash flow and decrease our net income. See “Business—Intellectual Property.” Cancellation of orders in our backlog of orders could negatively impact our revenues. As of April 1, 2006, we had an order backlog of $160.8 million, which we estimate will be fulfilled within the next 12 months. However, orders included in our backlog are subject to cancellation, delay or other modifications by our customers prior to fulfillment. For these reasons, we cannot assure you that orders included in our backlog will ultimately result in the actual receipt of revenues from such orders. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud could harm our business. We are in the process of instituting changes to our internal procedures to satisfy the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which require management and our auditors to evaluate and assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting by March 31, 2007. Implementing these changes may take a significant amount of time and may require specific compliance training of our directors, officers and other personnel. To date we have not detected any material weakness or significant deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting. However, we are continuing to evaluate and, where appropriate, enhance our policies, procedures and internal controls. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties or shareholder litigation. In addition, failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in financial statements that do not accurately reflect our financial condition. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the work necessary to fully comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or that management or our auditors will conclude that our internal controls are effective. We face new challenges and increased costs as a public company. Prior to our initial public offering in August 2005, our management team had historically operated our business as a privately held company. We expect that the obligations of being a public company, including substantial public reporting and investor relations obligations, will require significant legal, accounting and other additional expenditures, as well as stock exchange listing requirements, which will place additional demands on our management and may require the hiring of additional personnel. These obligations and related expenses have increased our operating expenses since our initial public offering and will continue to do so and could divert our management’s attention from our operations. These new rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these new rules, and we cannot accurately predict the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. For the fiscal year ended April 1, 2006, we estimate that we have incurred approximately $0.9 million of additional costs in connection with our operation as a public company. We can provide no assurance that such costs may not increase significantly in the future, particularly in connection with the work required for our accountants to certify the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting. Risk Factors Related to our Common Stock Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to change our management and hinder efforts to acquire a controlling interest in us. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: 17 · a classified board of directors; · advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; · the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; and · the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2¤3% of our shares entitled to vote is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions of our certificate of incorporation. In addition, absent approval of our board of directors, many of our bylaw provisions may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2¤3% of our shares entitled to vote. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors. Accordingly, the board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could materially adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock, including purchasers in this offering. Holders of the common stock will not have preemptive rights to subscribe for a pro rata portion of any capital stock which may be issued by us. In the event of issuance, such preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of RBC Bearings Incorporated. Although we have no present intention to issue any new shares of preferred stock, we may do so in the future. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. If there are substantial sales of our common stock, our stock price could decline. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that existing stockholders might sell shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. All of our directors, executive officers and the selling stockholders have executed 90-day lock-up agreements for their shares prior to the completion of the offering on April 18, 2006. Our other stockholders, including employee holders of warrants, options and restricted stock, will not be executing lock-up agreements. The shares will be eligible for sale pursuant to Rule 144 or otherwise subject to the expiration of the lock-up agreements for those persons who are executing such agreements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 