ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below is a detailed discussion of risks related to our industry and our business. In addition to the other information in this document, you should consider carefully the following risk factors. Any of these risks or the occurrence of any one or more of the uncertainties described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the performance of our business. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY The global economic crisis which began in 2008 is likely to continue to have detrimental impacts on our business. During the third quarter of 2008, a global economic crisis in the credit markets began to impact the equity markets and thus far has produced a global recession. Although we cannot predict the extent, timing and full ramifications of the crisis, we believe that, at a minimum, the following risks have been heightened. Potential recession impacts — Global demand for many of the products that are currently shipped by barge may be significantly diminished by a prolonged recession. Such loss of demand has and could continue to severely impact our revenues, costs and financial condition, as it may continue to result in an oversupply of 18 Table of Contents barges reducing the rates we are able to charge for our services. Such loss of demand could also result in tow-size and barge positioning inefficiencies and negatively impact revenue price/mix/volume as occurred during the year ended December 31, 2009. Credit availability to our customers and suppliers — We believe that many of our customers and suppliers, particularly customers of our manufacturing segment, rely on liquidity from operative global credit markets. If credit availability is restricted or interest rates increase significantly, demand for our products and services may be constricted, our costs may increase and we may not be able to enforce contracts or collect on outstanding invoices. Planning risk — Our ability to plan and forecast operating results and capital needs is lessened which could lead to lower operating efficiency. Market risk — We have significant costs associated with our pension plan, the cost of which is dependent on many factors including the return on plan assets. Plan assets declined significantly in 2008. Though plan assets increased in 2009 the combined two year return for 2008 and 2009 remained below the average assumed rate of return used for actuarial estimation purposes. Further declines in the value of plan assets or continued lower than assumed returns over time could increase required expense provisions and contributions under the plan. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009, for disclosures related to our employee benefit plans. Freight transportation rates for the Inland Waterways fluctuate from time to time and may decrease. Freight transportation rates fluctuate from season-to-season and year-to-year. Levels of dry and liquid cargo being transported on the Inland Waterways vary based on several factors including global economic conditions and business cycles, domestic agricultural production and demand, international agricultural production and demand, and foreign exchange rates. Additionally, fluctuation of ocean freight rate spreads between the Gulf of Mexico and the Pacific Northwest affects demand for barging on the Inland Waterways, especially in grain movements. Grain, particularly corn for export, has been a significant part of our business. Since the beginning of 2006, all grain transported by us has been under spot market contracts. Spot grain contracts are normally priced at, or near, the quoted tariff rates in effect for the river segment of the move. Spot rates can vary widely from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. A decline in spot rates could negatively impact our business. The number of barges and towboats available to transport dry and liquid cargo on the Inland Waterways also varies from year-to-year as older vessels are retired and new vessels are placed into service. The resulting relationship between levels of cargoes and vessels available for transport affects the freight transportation rates that we are able to charge. During the current recession overall freight demand, particularly in the liquid barge market, has declined substantially reducing the demand for dedicated service contracts. This decline in those contracts has resulted in an oversupply of liquid barges to serve liquid spot demand and has lowered the rates we can charge for that service. An oversupply of barging capacity may lead to reductions in freight rates. Our industry has previously suffered from an oversupply of barges relative to demand for barging services. The economic crisis that began in the fall of 2008 has led to a temporary oversupply, particularly in the liquid business. We cannot currently estimate the likely duration of this oversupply. Such oversupply may recur due to a variety of factors, including a drop in demand, overbuilding, delay in scrapping or extending useful lives through refurbishing of barges approaching the end of their useful economic lives. We believe that approximately 25% of the industry’s existing dry cargo barge fleet will need to be retired or refurbished due to age over the next three to seven years. If retirement occurs, demand for barge services returns to more normal levels and new builds do not replace retired capacity, we believe that barge capacity may be constrained. However, if an oversupply of barges were to occur, it could take several years before supply growth matches demand due to the variable nature of the barging industry and the freight transportation industry in general, and the relatively long life of marine equipment. Such oversupply could lead to reductions in the freight rates that we are able to charge until volume demand returns. 19 Table of Contents Yields from North American and worldwide grain harvests could materially affect demand for our barging services. Demand for dry cargo barging in North America is significantly affected by the volume of grain exports flowing through ports on the Gulf of Mexico. The volume of grain exports can vary due to, among other things, crop harvest yield levels in the United States and abroad and exchange rates. Overseas grain shortages increase demand for U.S. grain, while worldwide over-production decreases demand for U.S. grain. Other factors, such as domestic ethanol demand and overseas markets’ acceptance of genetically altered products and the exchange rate, may also affect demand for U.S. grain. Fluctuations in demand for U.S. grain exports can lead to temporary barge oversupply, which in turn can lead to reduced freight rates. We cannot assure that historical levels of U.S. grain exports will continue in the future. Diminishing demand for new barge construction may lead to a reduction in sales volume and prices for new barges. The prices we have been able to charge for manufacturing segment production have fluctuated historically based on a variety of factors including our customers’ cost and availability of debt financing, cost of raw materials, the cost of labor and the demand for new barge builds compared to the barge manufacturing capacity within the industry at the time. From 2007 through 2008, we increased the pricing on our barges, net of steel costs, in response to increased demand for new barge construction. Though we plan to continue increasing the longer term pricing on our barges, net of steel, in conjunction with the expected additional long-term demand for new barge construction as well as inflation of our costs, the current economic crisis has affected our customers’ need and ability to build new barges in the near-term. If demand for new barge construction diminishes or the recession deepens or extends we may not be able to maintain or increase pricing over our current levels. Volatile steel prices may lead to a reduction in or delay of demand for new barge construction. Almost all of the contracts for Jeffboat production contain steel price adjustments, though in some recent contracts we have fixed steel prices, as vendors have been willing to commit to fixed prices over a six month window, though such commitments may not be enforceable. Although the price of steel has recently declined from peak levels, the price has been volatile in recent years. Due to the steel price adjustments in the contracts, the total price incurred by our customers for new barge construction has also varied. Some customers may consider steel prices when determining to build new barges resulting in fluctuating demand for new barge construction. Higher fuel prices, if not recouped from our customers, could dramatically increase operating expenses and adversely affect profitability. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, fuel expenses represented 19.8%, 25.4% and 20.9% of transportation revenues. Fuel prices are subject to fluctuation as a result of domestic and international events. Generally, our term contracts contain provisions that allow us to pass through (effectively on approximately a 45 day delay basis) a significant portion of any fuel expense increase to our customers, thereby reducing, but not eliminating, our fuel price risk. Fuel price is a key, but not the only variable in spot market pricing. Therefore, fuel price and the timing of contractual rate adjustments can be a significant source of quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year volatility, particularly in periods of rapidly changing fuel prices. Negotiated spot rates may not fully recover fuel price increases. From time to time we hedge the expected cash flows from anticipated purchases of unprotected gallons through fuel price swaps. We choose how much fuel to hedge depending on the circumstances. However, we may not effectively control our fuel price risk and may incur fuel costs higher than the spot market price. At December 31, 2009, the market value of our fuel price swaps represented an asset of approximately $4.8 million. If there are no further changes in market value prior to settlement dates in 2010 and 2011, this amount would be credited to operations as the fuel is used. 20 Table of Contents Our operating margins are impacted by certain low margin legacy contracts and by spot rate market volatility for grain volume and pricing. We emerged from bankruptcy in January 2005. Our largest term contract for the movement of coal predates the emergence and was negotiated at a low margin. Though it contains a fuel adjustment mechanism, the mechanism may not fully recover increases in fuel cost. The majority of our coal moves, since bankruptcy and through the 2015 expiration of this contract, may be at a low or negative margin due to our inability to fully recover fuel price increases through the contract though we have recently hedged expected 2010 fuel usage at prices that should provide positive 2010 margins for this contract. This concentration of low margin business was approximately $51.1 million, $43.1 million and $43.4 million of our total revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007 respectively. Additionally, all of our grain shipments since the beginning of 2006 have been under spot market contracts. Spot rates can vary widely from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. The available pricing and the volume under such contracts is impacted by many factors including global economic conditions and business cycles, domestic agricultural production and demand, international agricultural production and demand, foreign exchange rates, fluctuation of ocean freight rate spreads between the Gulf of Mexico and the Pacific Northwest and the extent of demand for dry barge services in the non-grain dry bulk market. The revenues generated under such contracts, therefore, ultimately may not cover inflation, particularly for wages and fuel, in any given period. These circumstances may reduce the margins we are able to realize on the contract grain movements during 2010. Revenues from grain volumes were 31%, 30% and 22% of our total transportation segment revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007 respectively. We expect grain to decline as a percent of transportation revenue in 2010. Our legacy coal contract combined with the potential impact of the grain spot market may lead to declines in our operating margins which could reduce our profitability. At the end of 2009, though we have no remaining legacy vessels in our manufacturing backlog, one unsigned option on 14 to 20 additional vessels, or more than $31 million of revenues for 2011 builds remains exercisable. If exercised this option may extend the negative margin impact into 2011. As a percent of total production, we do not expect that these vessels will be significant to 2011 production margin. We are subject to adverse weather and river conditions, including marine accidents. Our barging operations are affected by weather and river conditions. Varying weather patterns can affect river levels, contribute to fog delays and cause ice to form in certain river areas of the United States. For example, the Upper Mississippi River closes annually from approximately mid-December to mid-March, and ice conditions can hamper navigation on the upper reaches of the Illinois River during the winter months. During hurricane season in the summer and early fall we may be subject to revenue loss, business interruptions and equipment and facilities damage, particularly in the Gulf region. In addition, adverse river conditions can result in lock closures as well as affect towboat speed, tow size and loading drafts and can delay barge movements. Terminals may also experience operational interruptions as a result of weather or river conditions. During 2008 the number of idle barge days due to high water conditions, primarily on the Illinois and Arkansas rivers, and due to the impacts of the three hurricanes which hit the Gulf Coast were up more than one and one-half times over the prior year, to almost 42,000 idle barge days. This was equivalent to not generating any revenue from approximately 115 barges for a full year. Idle weather-related barge days declined to approximately 17,500 days in 2009 which is a more normal level. Adverse weather conditions may also affect the volume of grain produced and harvested, as well as impact harvest timing and therefore pricing. In the event of a diminished harvest, the demand for barging services will likely decrease. Additionally, marine accidents involving our or others’ vessels may impact our ability to efficiently operate on the Inland Waterways. Such accidents, particularly those involving spills, can effectively close sections of the Inland Waterways to marine traffic. Our manufacturing segment’s waterfront facility is subject to occasional flooding. Its manufacturing operation, much of which is conducted outdoors, is also subject to weather conditions. As a result, these operations are subject to production schedule delays or added costs to maintain production schedules caused by weather. The manufacturing operation lost approximately 40 production days in both 2009 and 2008. 21 Table of Contents Seasonal fluctuations in industry demand could adversely affect our operating results, cash flow and working capital requirements. Segments of the inland barging business are seasonal. Historically, our revenue and profits have been lower during the first six months of the year and higher during the last six months of the year. This seasonality is due primarily to compression of capacity resulting from the timing of the North American grain harvest and seasonal weather patterns. Our working capital requirements typically track the rise and fall of our revenue and profits throughout the year. As a result, adverse market or operating conditions during the last six months of a calendar year could disproportionately adversely affect our operating results, cash flow and working capital requirements for the year. The aging infrastructure on the Inland Waterways may lead to increased costs and disruptions in our operations. Many of the dams and locks on the Inland Waterways were built early in the last century, and their age makes them costly to maintain and susceptible to unscheduled maintenance and repair outages. The delays caused by malfunctioning dams and locks or by closures due to repairs or construction may increase our operating costs, delay the delivery of our cargoes and create other operational inefficiencies. This could result in interruption of our service and lower revenues. Much of this infrastructure needs to be replaced, but federal government funding has historically been limited. Funding has been supplemented by diesel fuel user taxes paid by the towing industry. There can be no guarantee that government funding levels will be sufficient to sustain infrastructure maintenance and repair costs or that a greater portion of the costs will not be imposed on operators. Diesel fuel user taxes could be imposed which would increase our costs. A “lockage fee” could be imposed to supplement or replace the current fuel user tax. Such a fee could increase the Company’s costs in certain areas affected by the lockage fee. We may not be able to recover increased fuel user taxes or such lockage fees through pricing increases. The inland barge transportation industry is highly competitive; increased competition could adversely affect us. The inland barge transportation industry is highly competitive. Increased competition in the future could result in a significant increase in available shipping capacity on the Inland Waterways, which could create downward rate pressure for us or result in our loss of business. Global trade agreements, tariffs and subsidies could decrease the demand for imported and exported goods, adversely affecting the flow of import and export tonnage through the Port of New Orleans and other Gulf-coast ports and the demand for barging services. The volume of goods imported through the Port of New Orleans and other Gulf-coast ports is affected by subsidies or tariffs imposed by U.S. or foreign governments. Demand for U.S. grain exports may be affected by the actions of foreign governments and global or regional economic developments. Foreign subsidies and tariffs on agricultural products affect the pricing of and the demand for U.S. agricultural exports. U.S. and foreign trade agreements can also affect demand for U.S. agricultural exports as well as goods imported into the United States. Similarly, national and international embargoes of the agricultural products of the United States or other countries may affect demand for U.S. agricultural exports. Additionally, the strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies can impact import and export demand. These events, all of which are beyond our control, could reduce the demand for our services. Our failure to comply with government regulations affecting the barging industry, or changes in these regulations, may cause us to incur significant expenses or affect our ability to operate. The barging industry is subject to various laws and regulations, including national, state and local laws and regulations, all of which are subject to amendment or changes in interpretation. In addition, various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies require barge operators to obtain and maintain permits, licenses and certificates and require routine inspections, monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting respecting their 22 Table of Contents vessels and operations. Any significant changes in laws or regulations affecting the inland barge industry, or in the interpretation thereof, could cause us to incur significant expenses. Enacted regulations call for increased inspection of towboats. The United States Coast Guard has been instructed in Congressional hearings to complete interpretation of the new regulations. These interpretations could result in boat delays and significantly increased maintenance and upgrade costs for our boat fleet. Furthermore, failure to comply with current or future laws and regulations may result in the imposition of fines and/or restrictions or prohibitions on our ability to operate. Though we work actively with regulators at all levels to avoid inordinate impairment of our operations, regulations and their interpretations may ultimately have a negative impact on the industry. Regulations such as the Transportation Worker Identification Credential provisions of the Homeland Security legislation could have an impact on the ability of domestic ports to efficiently move cargoes. This could ultimately slow operations and increase costs. In addition, changes in environmental laws impacting the shipping business, including the passage of climate change legislation or other regulatory initiatives that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases, may require costly vessel modifications, the use of higher-priced fuel and changes in operating practices that may not all be able to be recovered through increased payments from customers. Our maritime operations expose us to numerous legal and regulatory requirements, and violation of these regulations could result in criminal liability against us or our officers. Because we operate in marine transportation, we are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations. Violations of these laws and regulations in the conduct of our business could result in fines, criminal sanctions or criminal liability against us or our officers. The Jones Act restricts foreign ownership of our stock, and the repeal, suspension or substantial amendment of the Jones Act could increase competition on the Inland Waterways and have a material adverse effect on our business. The Jones Act requires that, to be eligible to operate a vessel transporting non-proprietary cargo on the Inland Waterways, the company that owns the vessel must be at least 75% owned by U.S. citizens at each tier of its ownership. The Jones Act therefore restricts, directly or indirectly, foreign ownership interests in the entities that directly or indirectly own the vessels which we operate on the Inland Waterways. If we at any point cease to be 75% owned by U.S. citizens we may become subject to penalties and risk forfeiture of our Inland Waterways operations. As of December 31, 2009, we believe that we are in compliance with the ownership requirements. The Jones Act continues to be in effect and has historically been supported by the U.S. Congress and the prior administrations. We cannot assure that the Jones Act will not be repealed, further suspended, or amended in the future. If the Jones Act was to be repealed, suspended or substantially amended and, as a consequence, competitors with lower operating costs were to enter the Inland Waterways market, our business likely would be materially adversely affected. In addition, our advantages as a U.S.-citizen operator of Jones Act vessels could be eroded over time as there continue to be periodic efforts and attempts by foreign investors to circumvent certain aspects of the Jones Act. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We are named as a defendant in lawsuits and we are in receipt of other claims and we cannot predict the outcome of such litigation and claims which may result in the imposition of significant liability. Litigation and claims are pending relating to a collision on July 23, 2008, involving one of American Commercial Lines LLC’s tank barges that was being towed by DRD Towing and the motor vessel Tintomara, operated by Laurin Maritime, at Mile Marker 97 of the Mississippi River in the New Orleans area. (See “Legal Proceedings”). American Commercial Lines LLC filed an action in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana seeking exoneration from or limitation of liability. All lawsuits filed against American Commercial Lines LLC are consolidated in this action. Claims under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA 90”) are also afforded an administrative process to settle such claims. American Commercial Lines 23 Table of Contents LLC was designated a responsible party under OPA 90, and the Company performed the cleanup and is responding to OPA 90 claims. We have made demand on DRD Towing and Laurin Maritime for cleanup, defense and indemnification. However, there is no assurance that DRD Towing and Laurin Maritime or any other party that may be found responsible for the accident will have the insurance or financial resources available to provide such defense and indemnification. We have various insurance policies covering pollution, property, marine and general liability. However, there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate. See “Our Insurance May Not Be Adequate to Cover Our Losses” below. We cannot predict the outcome of this litigation which may result in the imposition of significant liability. We are facing significant litigation which may divert management attention and resources from our business. We are facing significant litigation and investigations relating to the above discussed collision. Defense against this litigation and cooperation with investigations may require us to spend a significant amount of time and resources that may otherwise be spent on management of our business. In addition, we may in the future be the target of similar litigation or investigations. This litigation or investigations or additional litigation or investigations may result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which may seriously harm our business. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover our losses. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from our operational risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. While we believe that we have satisfactory insurance coverage for pollution, property, marine and general liability, in the event that costs exceed our available insurance or additional liability is imposed on us for which we are unable to seek reimbursement, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to continue to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future, and some claims may not be paid. In the past stricter environmental regulations and significant environmental incidents have led to higher costs for insurance covering environmental damage or pollution, and new regulations of incidents could lead to similar increases or even make this type of insurance unavailable. Our aging fleet of dry cargo barges may lead to increased costs and disruptions in our operations. The average life expectancy of a dry cargo barge is 25 to 30 years. We anticipate that without further investment and repairs by the end of 2010 approximately one-third of our current dry cargo barges will have reached 30 years of age. Though we currently have just over 300 dry barges in use greater than 30 years old, once barges begin to reach 25 to 30 years of age the cost to maintain and operate them may be so high that it may be more economical for the barges to be scrapped. If such barges are not scrapped, additional operating costs to repair and maintain them would likely reduce cash flows and earnings. If such barges are scrapped and not replaced, revenue, earnings and cash flows may decline. Though we anticipate future capital investment in dry cargo barges, we may choose not to replace all barges that we may scrap with new barges based on uncertainties related to financing, timing and shipyard availability. If such barges are replaced, significant capital outlays would be required. We may not be able to generate sufficient sources of liquidity to fund necessary replacement capital needs. If the number of barges declines over time, our ability to maintain our hauling capacity will be decreased unless we can improve the utilization of the fleet. If these improvements in utilization are not achieved, revenue, earnings and cash flow could decline. We have experienced work stoppages by union employees in the past, and future work stoppages may disrupt our services and adversely affect our operations. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 700 employees were represented by unions. Most of these unionized employees (approximately 675 individuals) are represented by General Drivers, Warehousemen and Helpers, Local Union No. 89, affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America (“Teamsters”), at our shipyard facility under a three-year collective bargaining agreement that expires in April 2010. Our remaining unionized employees (approximately 25 24 Table of Contents positions) are represented by the International Union of United Mine Workers of America, District 12 — Local 2452 at ACL Transportation Services LLC in St. Louis, Missouri under a collective bargaining agreement that expires in December 2010. Although we believe that our relations with our employees and with the recognized labor unions are generally good, we cannot assure that we will be able to reach agreement on renewal terms of these contracts or that we will not be subject to work stoppages, other labor disruption or that we will be able to pass on increased costs to our customers in the future. If there were to be a prolonged work stoppage or strike at our shipyard facility, it could have a material impact on the Company’s manufacturing segments operations and financial results. We may not ultimately be able to drive efficiency to the level to achieve our current forecast of tonnage without investing additional capital or incurring additional costs. Our plans for capital investment and organic growth in our transportation business are predicated on efficiency improvements which we expect to achieve through a variety of initiatives, including balanced traffic lane density, minimizing empty barge miles, reduction in non-revenue generating stationary days, better power utilization and improved fleeting, among others. We believe that our initiatives will result in improvements in efficiency allowing us to move more tonnage per barge. If we do not fully achieve these efficiencies, or do not achieve them as quickly as we plan, we will need to incur higher repair expenses to maintain fleet size by maintaining older barges or invest new capital as we replace retiring capacity. Either of these options would adversely affect our results of operations. Our cash flows and borrowing facilities may not be adequate for our additional capital needs and our future cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest and principal of our substantial indebtedness. Our operations are capital intensive and require significant capital investment. We intend to fund substantially all of our needs to operate the business and make capital expenditures, including adequate investment in our aging boat and barge fleet, through operating cash flows and borrowings. Capital may not be continuously available to us and may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. We may need more capital than may be available under the terms of the Credit Facility and therefore we would be required either to (a) seek to increase the availability under the Credit Facility or (b) obtain other sources of financing. If we incur additional indebtedness, the risk that our future cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest and principal on our substantial indebtedness would increase. We may not be able to increase the availability under the Credit Facility or to obtain other sources of financing on commercially reasonable terms. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, we may be required to curtail our capital expenditures and we may not be able to invest in our aging boat and barge fleet and to meet our obligations, including our obligations to pay the principal and interest under our indebtedness. A significant portion of our borrowings are tied to floating interest rates which may expose us to higher interest payments should interest rates increase substantially. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately $154.5 million of floating rate debt outstanding, which represented the outstanding balance of the New Credit Facility. Each 100 basis point increase above the LIBOR interest rate in effect at December 31, 2009, would increase our cash interest expense by approximately $1.5 million. The indenture and the Credit Facility impose significant operating and financial restrictions on our Company and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. The Credit Facility and the indenture impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability, among other things, to: • incur additional indebtedness or enter into sale and leaseback obligations; • pay dividends or certain other distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock other than allowed under the indenture; 25 Table of Contents • make certain investments or other restricted payments; • place restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us; • engage in transactions with stockholders or affiliates; • sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies; • guarantee indebtedness; and • create liens. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we may be limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. We face the risk of breaching covenants in the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility contains financial covenants, including, among others, a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization that are effective when remaining availability is less than 17.5% of total availability. Although none of our covenants are currently in effect based on our current borrowing levels, our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. A breach of any of these springing covenants could result in a default. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, all amounts outstanding can be declared immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If the repayment of borrowings is accelerated, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit. The loss of one or more key customers, or material nonpayment or nonperformance by one or more of our key customers, could cause a significant loss of revenue and may adversely affect profitability. In 2009 our largest customer accounted for approximately 7.4% of our revenue, and our largest ten customers accounted for approximately 34.7% of our revenue. Many of our customers have been significantly affected by the current recession and we anticipate that some of our customers may continue to struggle in 2010. If we were to lose one or more of our large customers, or if one or more of our large customers were to significantly reduce the amount of barging services they purchase from us and we were unable to redeploy that equipment on similar terms, or if one or more of our key customers fail to pay or perform, we could experience a significant loss of revenue. In early 2009 we experienced the bankruptcy of a liquids customer, which had been one of our top ten customers and we were not successful in maintaining any volume with the successor in bankruptcy of the former customer. A major accident or casualty loss at any of our facilities could significantly reduce production. One or more of our facilities or equipment may experience a major accident and may be subject to unplanned events such as explosions, fires, inclement weather, acts of God and transportation interruptions. Any shutdown or interruption of a facility could reduce the production from that facility and could prevent us from conducting our business for an indefinite period of time at that facility, which could substantially impair our business. For example, such an occurrence at our manufacturing segment’s facility could disrupt or shut down our manufacturing activities. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover our resulting losses. A temporary or permanent closure of the river to barge traffic in the Chicago area in response to the threat of Asian carp migrating into the Great Lakes may have an adverse affect on operations in the area. The Company has numerous customers in the Chicago and Great Lakes areas that ship freight through certain locks in the Chicago area. In the event certain of these locks are permanently closed, these customers may use other means of transportation to ship their products. In the event there are temporary or periodic closures of these locks or other river closures in the area, the Company could experience an increase in operating costs, delay in delivery of cargoes and other operational efficiencies. Such interruptions of our 26 Table of Contents service could result in lower revenues. In the event barge transportation becomes impossible or impracticable for our Lemont facility, the Company may be forced to close the Lemont facility. Interruption or failure of our information technology and communications systems, or compliance with requirements related to controls over our information technology protocols, could impair our ability to effectively provide our services or increase our information technology costs and could damage our reputation. Our services rely heavily on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems, particularly our Integrated Barge Information System. We have experienced brief systems failures in the past and may experience brief or substantial failures in the future. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning does not account for all eventualities. The occurrence of a natural disaster, or other unanticipated problems at our facility at which we maintain and operate our systems could result in lengthy interruptions or delays in our services and damage our reputation with our customers. Our transportation division employees are covered by federal maritime laws that may subject us to job-related claims in addition to those provided by state laws. Many of our employees are covered by federal maritime laws, including provisions of the Jones Act, the Longshore and Harbor Workers Act and the Seaman’s Wage Act. These laws typically operate to make liability limits established by state workers’ compensation laws inapplicable to these employees and to permit these employees and their representatives to pursue actions against employers for job-related injuries in federal court. Because we are not generally protected by the limits imposed by state workers’ compensation statutes for these employees, we may have greater exposure for any claims made by these employees than is customary in the individual states. The loss of key personnel, including highly skilled and licensed vessel personnel, could adversely affect our business. We believe that our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and to operate profitably depends on the continued employment of our senior management team and other key personnel, including highly skilled and licensed vessel personnel. Specifically, experienced vessel operators, including captains, are not quickly replaceable and the loss of high-level vessel employees over a short period of time could impair our ability to fully man all of our vessels. If key employees depart, we may have to incur significant costs to replace them. Our ability to execute our business model could be impaired if we cannot replace them in a timely manner. Therefore, any loss or reduction in the number of such key personnel could adversely affect our future operating results. Failure to comply with environmental, health and safety regulations could result in substantial penalties and changes to our operations. Our operations, facilities, properties and vessels are subject to extensive and evolving laws and regulations. These laws pertain to air emissions; water discharges; the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and oil and oil-related products, hazardous substances and wastes; the investigation and remediation of contamination; and health, safety and the protection of the environment and natural resources. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, assessment of monetary penalties and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. As a result, we are involved from time to time in administrative and legal proceedings related to environmental, health and safety matters and have in the past and will continue to incur costs and other expenditures relating to such matters. In addition to environmental laws that regulate our ongoing operations, we are also subject to environmental remediation liability. Under federal and state laws we may be liable as a result of the release or threatened release of hazardous substances or wastes or other pollutants into the environment at or by our facilities, properties or vessels, or as a result of our current or past operations, including facilities to which we have shipped wastes. These laws, such as the federal Clean Water Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act 27 Table of Contents (“CERCLA”), the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) and OPA 90, typically impose liability and cleanup responsibility without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the release or threatened release. Even if more than one person may be liable for the release or threatened release, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held wholly responsible for all of the cleanup costs and damages. In addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site or vessel for damage based on personal injury, property damage or other costs and cleanup costs, resulting from environmental contamination. Under OPA 90 owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil within the internal and territorial waters, and the 200-mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. Additionally, an oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties, criminal liability and costs for natural resource damages. Most states bordering on a navigable waterway have enacted legislation providing for potentially unlimited liability for the discharge of pollutants within their waters. As of December 31, 2009, we were involved in several matters relating to the investigation or remediation of locations where hazardous materials have or might have been released or where we or our vendors have arranged for the disposal of wastes. These matters include situations in which we have been named or are believed to be a potentially responsible party under applicable federal and state laws. As of December 31, 2009, we had no significant reserves for these environmental matters. Any cash expenditures required to comply with applicable environmental laws or to pay for any remediation efforts in excess of such reserves or insurance will therefore result in charges to earnings. We may incur future costs related to the sites associated with the environmental issues, and any significant additional costs could adversely affect our financial condition. The discovery of additional sites, the modification of existing laws or regulations or the promulgation of new laws or regulations, more vigorous enforcement by regulators, the imposition of joint and several liability under CERCLA or analogous state laws or OPA 90 and other unanticipated events could also result in a material adverse effect. We are subject to, and may in the future be subject to disputes or legal or other proceedings that could involve significant expenditures by us. The nature of our business exposes us to the potential for disputes or legal or other proceedings from time to time relating to labor and employment matters, personal injury and property damage, product liability matters, environmental matters, tax matters, contract disputes and other matters. Specifically, we are subject to claims on cargo damage from our customers and injury claims from our vessel personnel. These disputes, individually or collectively, could affect our business by distracting our management from the operation of our business. If these disputes develop into proceedings, these proceedings, individually or collectively, could involve significant expenditures. We are currently involved in several environmental matters. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings — Environmental and Other Litigation.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 