Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to a number of risks. If any of the events contemplated by the following risks actually occur, then our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is dependent on the price of natural gas in North America, which is both expensive and highly volatile. Natural gas is the principal raw material used to produce nitrogen fertilizers. We use natural gas both as a chemical feedstock and as a fuel to produce ammonia, urea and UAN. Because all of our nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing facilities are located in the United States and Canada, the price of natural gas in North America directly impacts a substantial portion of our operating expenses. Expenditures on natural gas comprised approximately 56% of the total cost of our nitrogen fertilizer sales in 2005 and a substantially higher percentage of cash production costs (total production costs less depreciation and amortization). The market price for natural gas in North America is significantly higher than the price of natural gas in other major fertilizer-producing regions. For example, during 2005, natural gas prices in the United States (measured at the Henry Hub, near our Donaldsonville, Louisiana facility) averaged approximately $8.86 per mmBTU and in Canada (measured at AECO, near our joint venture's Medicine Hat, Alberta facility) averaged approximately $7.26 per mmBTU. In comparison, during 2005, natural gas prices paid by fertilizer producers are estimated to have been approximately $1.10 per mmBTU in Russia and approximately $2.65 per mmBTU in the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago. Many of our competitors benefit from access to lower-priced natural gas through manufacturing facilities or interests in manufacturing facilities located in these regions or other regions with abundant supplies of natural gas. The price of natural gas in North America is also highly volatile. During 2005, the median daily price at Henry Hub ranged from a low of $5.53 per mmBTU on January 4, 2005 to a high of $15.40 per mmBTU on December 14, 2005. The volatility of the price of natural gas in North America compounds our competitive disadvantage to some of our competitors, who, in addition to having access to lower-priced natural gas, may also benefit from fixed-price natural gas contracts. As a result of global competition in the fertilizer industry, we may not be able to pass along to our customers in the form of higher product prices the higher operating costs we incur due to our dependence on North American natural gas. For example, due to the high cost of natural gas during the third and fourth quarters of 2005, we curtailed production of fertilizers at our Donaldsonville complex because market prices of nitrogen fertilizer were below our cost of production. Unless prices for natural gas in North America and other fertilizer-producing regions begin to converge, or we are able to reduce our dependence on North American natural gas, the relatively expensive and highly volatile cost of natural gas in North America could make it difficult for us to compete against producers from other parts of the world. Our business is cyclical, which results in periods of industry oversupply during which our results of operations tend to be negatively impacted. Historically, selling prices for our products have fluctuated in response to periodic changes in supply and demand conditions. Demand is affected by population growth, changes in dietary habits, and planted acreage and application rates, among other things. Supply is affected by available capacity and operating rates, raw material costs, government policies and global trade. Periods of high demand, high capacity utilization and increasing operating margins tend to result in new plant investment and increased production, causing supply to exceed demand and prices and capacity utilization to decline. Reduced prices restrict investment in new capacity, initiating a new cycle. A substantial amount of new ammonia and 14 urea capacity is expected to be added abroad in low-cost regions over the next several years. Future growth in demand for fertilizer may not be sufficient to alleviate any existing or future conditions of excess industry capacity. During periods of industry oversupply, our results of operations tend to be affected negatively as the price at which we sell our products typically declines, resulting in reduced profit margins, lower production of our products and possible plant closures. We have a history of losses and may incur losses in the future, which could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We incurred net losses in six out of the last seven years; 1999 through 2003, and 2005. In future periods, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a consistent quarterly or annual basis. Failure to maintain consistent profitability may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our products are global commodities, and we face intense global competition from other fertilizer producers. We are subject to intense price competition from both domestic and foreign sources. Fertilizers are global commodities, with little or no product differentiation, and customers make their purchasing decisions principally on the basis of delivered price and to a lesser extent on customer service and product quality. We compete with a number of domestic and foreign producers, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. Some of these competitors have greater total resources and are less dependent on earnings from fertilizer sales, which makes them less vulnerable to industry downturns and better positioned to pursue new expansion and development opportunities. Recent consolidation in the fertilizer industry has increased the resources of several of our competitors, and we expect consolidation among fertilizer producers to continue. In light of this industry consolidation, our competitive position could suffer to the extent we are not able to expand our own resources either through investments in new or existing operations or through acquisitions, joint ventures or partnerships. In the future, we may not be able to find suitable assets to purchase or joint venture or partnership opportunities to pursue. Even if we are able to locate desirable opportunities, we may not be able to acquire desired assets or enter into desired joint ventures or partnerships on economically acceptable terms. Our inability to compete successfully could result in the loss of customers, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. China is the largest producer and consumer of fertilizers and has been, and is expected to continue, expanding its fertilizer production capability. This increase in capacity could adversely affect the balance between global supply and demand and may put downward pressure on global fertilizer prices, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may face increased competition from Russian and Ukrainian urea, which is currently subject to antidumping duty orders that impose significant duties on urea imported into the United States from these two countries. The antidumping orders have been in place since 1987, and there has been almost no urea imported into the United States from Russia or Ukraine since that time. Russia and Ukraine currently have considerable capacity to produce urea and are the world's largest urea exporters. Producers in both countries benefit from natural gas prices that are determined by their governments and which are well below the commercial value of the natural gas, encouraging urea production and export activity. Following a review by the U.S. Department of Commerce and the U.S. International Trade Commission, the antidumping orders were extended for an additional five year period in November 2005. The decision to extend the orders has been appealed by the Russians. For a number of reasons, including underutilized capacity, the attractiveness of the U.S. market and barriers to Ukrainian urea imports in other key consuming markets, we expect that if the decision to extend the orders is reversed, imports of Russian and Ukrainian urea into the United States are likely to increase significantly, causing our sales and margins to suffer. 15 Any decline in U.S. agricultural production or limitations on the use of our products for agricultural purposes could materially adversely affect the market for our products. Conditions in the U.S. agricultural industry can significantly impact our operating results. The U.S. agricultural industry can be affected by a number of factors, including weather patterns and field conditions, current and projected grain inventories and prices, the domestic and international demand for U.S. agricultural products and U.S. and foreign policies regarding trade in agricultural products. State and federal governmental policies, including farm subsidies and commodity support programs, may also directly or indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the mix of crops planted and the use of fertilizers for particular agricultural applications. In addition, several states are currently considering limitations on the use and application of chemical fertilizers due to concerns about the impact of these products on the environment. Adverse weather conditions may decrease demand for our fertilizer products. Weather conditions that delay or intermittently disrupt field work during the planting and growing season may cause agricultural customers to use different forms of nitrogen fertilizer, which may adversely affect demand for the forms that we sell. Adverse weather conditions following harvest may delay or eliminate opportunities to apply fertilizer in the fall. Weather can also have an adverse effect on crop yields, which lowers the income of growers and could impair their ability to purchase fertilizer from our customers. Our inability to predict future seasonal fertilizer demand accurately could result in excess inventory, potentially at costs in excess of market value, or product shortages. The fertilizer business is seasonal. The strongest demand for our products occurs during the spring planting season, with a second period of strong demand following the fall harvest. We and/or our customers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year in order to ensure timely product availability during the peak sales seasons. Seasonality is greatest for ammonia due to the limited ability of our customers and their customers to store significant quantities of this product. The seasonality of fertilizer demand results in our sales volumes and net sales being the highest during the spring and our working capital requirements being the highest just prior to the start of the spring season. Our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns. If seasonal demand exceeds our projections, our customers may acquire products from our competitors, and our profitability will be negatively impacted. If seasonal demand is less than we expect, we will be left with excess inventory that will have to be stored (in which case our results of operations will be negatively impacted by any related storage costs) and/or liquidated (in which case the selling price may be below our production, procurement and storage costs). The risks associated with excess inventory and product shortages are particularly acute with respect to our nitrogen fertilizer business because of the highly volatile cost of natural gas and nitrogen fertilizer prices and the relatively brief periods during which farmers can apply nitrogen fertilizers. Our customer base is concentrated, with our pre-IPO owners accounting for a substantial portion of our sales. Prior to the completion of our initial public offering in August 2005, we operated as a cooperative. As a result, a substantial portion of our sales have been made to the eight regional agricultural cooperatives that owned us prior to the completion of our initial public offering. During 2005, our pre-IPO owners purchased approximately 4.6 million tons of fertilizer from us, which represented approximately 55% of our total sales volume. Our business with our pre-IPO owners is relatively concentrated. During 2005, two customers, GROWMARK, Inc., one of our pre-IPO owners, and Agriliance, LLC, a 50-50 joint venture between Land O'Lakes, Inc. and CHS, Inc., two of our other pre-IPO owners, made combined fertilizer purchases of approximately $811.1 million from us, representing approximately 43% of our total net sales. Under a cooperative structure, our pre-IPO owners benefited from purchases of our fertilizers through their ownership interest in us and our payment to them of patronage dividends in cash and/or patronage preferred stock. 16 After the completion of our initial public offering, only GROWMARK and CHS continue to have an ownership interest in us, and none of our pre-IPO owners are entitled to patronage benefits for purchases of fertilizers from us. As a result of our initial public offering and the elimination of patronage benefits, our pre-IPO owners have fewer incentives to purchase fertilizers from us. In addition, because we depend on our pre-IPO owners for a significant portion of our sales, we may have less flexibility than some of our competitors to diversify our customer base and seek more profitable direct sales to customers of our pre-IPO owners. Any substantial change in purchasing decisions by one or more of our larger pre-IPO owners, whether due to actions by our competitors, our actions in expanding the direct sale of fertilizers to the customers of our pre-IPO owners or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business. A reduction in the use of the forward pricing program by our customers or an increase in the use of product purchases to support the program could increase our exposure to fluctuations in our profit margins and materially adversely affect our operating results, liquidity and financial condition. In mid-2003, we instituted a forward pricing program. Through our forward pricing program, we offer our customers the opportunity to purchase product on a forward basis at prices and delivery dates we propose. As our customers enter into forward nitrogen fertilizer purchase contracts with us, we effectively fix the cost of natural gas, the largest and most volatile component of our supply cost. Under our forward pricing program, customers generally pay a substantial portion of the contract's sales value in advance of shipment, thereby significantly increasing our liquidity. During 2005, approximately 70% of our nitrogen fertilizer sales volume and approximately 36% of our phosphate fertilizer sales volume were sold under this program. As of December 31, 2005, our current liability for customer advances related to unshipped orders under this program equaled approximately 61% of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Since its inception in 2003, we have sold an increasing percentage of our nitrogen fertilizers under our forward pricing program. We believe this is primarily due to our customers' desire to fix their costs and reduce their exposure to increased prices during a period of generally increasing prices for nitrogen fertilizers. We do not have experience with the forward pricing program under all market conditions, and our customers may be less willing or even unwilling to purchase products on a forward basis during periods of generally decreasing or stable prices or during periods of relatively high fertilizer prices. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2005, a period during which prices for nitrogen fertilizer products rose to record levels, our sales under the forward pricing program declined significantly as our customers and their customers preferred to defer purchases of fertilizer products rather than commit to purchase products at such high prices. We have relatively less experience with our forward pricing program as it applies to phosphate fertilizers. The forward pricing program is also less effective at reducing our exposure to fluctuations in our profit margins on forward sales of fertilizer products in circumstances where we intend to purchase the fertilizer product from third parties for resale, rather than manufacture the product at one of our facilities. Due to the recent high costs of natural gas in North America, we have been forced to curtail production at our facilities and increase our purchases of fertilizer products originating from off-shore, lower cost producers for resale to our customers. Because it is generally not feasible to purchase fertilizer products from these third parties on a similar forward basis, we may not be able effectively to fix our profit margins on fertilizer products that we buy for resale under our forward pricing program. One method we use to reduce our margin exposure on sales of purchased products under our forward pricing program is to purchase the required fertilizer products in advance of the specified delivery date. In such circumstances, however, we may be required to buy and store the product sooner than if produced, thereby reducing the liquidity benefits otherwise associated with the forward pricing program. Any increase in our purchases of fertilizer products for resale to our customers or any reduction in the use of the forward pricing program by our customers due to changing conditions in the fertilizer market or otherwise could increase our exposure to fluctuating profit margins and materially adversely affect our operating results, liquidity and financial condition. 17 Our operations involve significant risks and hazards against which we may not be fully insured. Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the manufacturing, transportation, storage and distribution of chemical fertilizers, including ammonia, which is highly toxic and corrosive. These hazards include: explosions; fires; severe weather and natural disasters; train derailments, collisions, vessel groundings and other transportation and maritime incidents; leaks and ruptures involving storage tanks, pipelines and rail cars; spills, discharges and releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases; deliberate sabotage and terrorist incidents; mechanical failures; unscheduled downtime; labor difficulties and other risks. Some of these hazards can cause bodily injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and they may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties and liabilities. For example, over the course of the past few years, we have been involved in numerous property damage and personal injury lawsuits arising out of a hydrogen explosion at our Donaldsonville nitrogen fertilizer complex in 2000, in which three people died and several others were injured, as well as personal injury lawsuits arising out of a train derailment near Minot, North Dakota in 2002 that ruptured five tank cars, causing the formation of an ammonia cloud over the area. One person died and numerous others were injured. Our exposure to these types of risk is increased because of our reliance on a limited number of key facilities. Our nitrogen fertilizer operations are dependent on our nitrogen fertilizer complex in Donaldsonville, Louisiana and our joint venture's nitrogen fertilizer complex in Medicine Hat, Alberta. Our phosphate fertilizer operations are dependent on our phosphate mine and associated beneficiation plant in Hardee County, Florida; our phosphate fertilizer complex in Plant City, Florida; and our ammonia terminal in Tampa, Florida. Any suspension of operations at any of these key facilities could adversely affect our ability to produce our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, all of these facilities, other than the complex in Medicine Hat, are located in regions of the United States that experience a relatively high level of hurricane activity. Such storms, depending on their severity and location, have the potential not only to damage our facilities and disrupt our operations but also to adversely affect the shipping and distribution of our products and the supply and price of natural gas in the Gulf region. We maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance policies, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. If we were to incur significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to various self-retentions and deductibles under these insurance policies. As a result of market conditions, our premiums, self-retentions and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. Expansion of our business may result in unanticipated adverse consequences and may be hindered by the significant resources that would be required for any such expansion. In the future, we may seek to grow our business by investing in new or existing facilities, making acquisitions or entering into partnerships and joint ventures. Acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures or investments may require significant managerial attention, which may be diverted from our other activities and may impair the operation of our businesses. International acquisitions, partnerships, or joint ventures or the international expansion of our business, such as the project we are studying in the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, could involve additional risks and uncertainties, including: •difficulties and costs of complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; •unexpected changes in regulatory environments; •political and economic instability, including the possibility for civil unrest; •nationalization of properties by foreign governments; 18 •tax rates that may exceed those in the United States, and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements; •the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; and •the impact of exchange rate fluctuations between the United States dollar and foreign currencies in the countries where we operate. Furthermore, any future acquisitions of businesses or facilities could entail a number of additional risks, including: •problems with effective integration of operations; •the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships; •loss of key personnel of the acquired business or facility; •exposure to unanticipated liabilities; and •difficulties in realizing efficiencies, synergies and cost savings. These risks of unanticipated adverse consequences from any expansion of our business through investments, acquisitions, partnerships or joint ventures are increased due to the significant capital and other resources that we may have to commit to any such expansion. We also face increased exposure to risks related to acquisitions and international operations because our experience with acquisitions and international operations is limited. As a result of these and other factors, including the general economic risk associated with the fertilizer business, we may not be able to realize our projected returns from any future acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures or other investments. We may not have access to the funding required for the expansion of our business or such funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms. We may finance the expansion of our business with additional indebtedness and/or by issuing additional equity securities. We could face financial risks associated with incurring additional indebtedness, such as reducing our liquidity and access to financial markets and increasing the amount of cash flow required to service such indebtedness, or associated with issuing additional equity securities, such as dilution of ownership and earnings. We are subject to numerous environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, as well as potential environmental liabilities, which may require us to make substantial expenditures. We are subject to numerous environmental and health and safety laws and regulations in the United States and Canada, including laws and regulations relating to land reclamation; the generation, treatment, storage, disposal and handling of hazardous substances and wastes; and the cleanup of hazardous substance releases. These laws include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, RCRA, CERCLA, the Toxic Substances Control Act and various other federal, state, provincial, local and international statutes. As a fertilizer company working with chemicals and other hazardous substances, our business is inherently subject to spills, discharges or other releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Certain environmental laws, including CERCLA, impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, for cleanup costs on persons who have disposed of or released hazardous substances into the environment. Given the nature of our business, we have incurred, are incurring currently, and are likely to incur periodically in the future liabilities under CERCLA and other environmental cleanup laws at our current or former facilities, adjacent or nearby third-party facilities or offsite disposal locations. The costs associated with future cleanup activities that we may be required to conduct or finance may be material. Additionally, we may become liable to third parties for damages, including personal injury and property damage, resulting from the disposal or release of hazardous substances into the environment. Violations of environmental and health and safety laws can result in substantial penalties, court orders to install pollution-control equipment, civil and criminal sanctions, permit revocations and facility shutdowns. Environmental and health and safety laws change rapidly and have tended to become more stringent over time. As a result, we have not always been and may not always be in compliance with all environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. 19 Additionally, future environmental and health and safety laws and regulations or more vigorous enforcement of current laws and regulations, whether caused by violations of environmental and health and safety laws by us or other chemical fertilizer companies or otherwise, may require us to make substantial expenditures, and our costs to comply with, or any liabilities under, these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 1. Business.—Environmental Health and Safety and Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Our operations are dependent on numerous required permits and approvals from governmental authorities. We hold numerous environmental, mining and other governmental permits and approvals authorizing operations at each of our facilities. Expansion of our operations also is predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. A decision by a government agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed material permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at the affected facility and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In certain cases, as a condition to procuring such permits and approvals, we may be required to comply with financial assurance regulatory requirements. The purpose of these requirements is to assure the government that sufficient company funds will be available for the ultimate closure, post-closure care and/or reclamation at our facilities. To date, these financial assurance requirements have been satisfied without the need for an expenditure of corporate funds by meeting certain financial tests. However, pursuant to a 2005 amendment to Florida's regulations governing financial assurance related to the closure of phosphogypsum stacks, we intend to establish a cash deposit arrangement to meet such obligations to take advantage of a Safe Harbor provision of the new regulations. Additionally, Florida regulations require mining companies to demonstrate financial responsibility for wetland and other surface water mitigation measures in advance of any mining activities. If and when we are able to expand our Hardee mining activities to areas not currently permitted, we will be required to demonstrate financial responsibility for wetland and other surface water mitigation measures in advance of any mining activities. The demonstration of financial responsibility may be provided by passage of financial tests. In the event that we are unable to satisfy these financial tests, alternative methods of complying with the financial assurance requirements would require us to expend funds for the purchase of bonds, letters of credit, insurance policies or similar instruments. It is possible that we will not be able to comply with either current or new financial assurance regulations in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2005, the area permitted by local, state and federal authorities for mining at our Hardee phosphate complex had approximately 59 million tons of recoverable phosphate rock reserves, which will meet our requirements, at current operating rates, for approximately 17 years. Mining of these reserves beyond 2011, however, is subject to extension of our local development authorization by the Hardee County Board of County Commissioners. Additionally, we have initiated the process of applying for authorization and permits to expand the geographical area in which we can mine at our Hardee property. The expanded geographical area has an estimated 33 million tons of recoverable phosphate reserves, which will allow us to conduct mining operations at our Hardee property for approximately nine additional years at current operating rates, assuming we secure the authorization and permits to mine in this area. In Florida, local community participation has become an important factor in the authorization and permitting process for mining companies. A denial of the authorizations or permits to continue and/or expand our mining operations at our Hardee property would prevent us from mining all of our reserves and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Likewise, our phosphogypsum stack system at Plant City has sufficient capacity to meet our requirements through 2014 at current operating rates and is subject to regular renewals of our operating permits. We have secured the local development authorization to increase the capacity of this stack system. The most current estimate of stack system capacity based on this authorization is expected to meet our requirements through 2040 at current operating rates and subject to securing the corresponding operating permits. This time frame is approximately eight years beyond our 20 current estimate of available phosphate rock reserves at our Hardee mine. A decision by the state or federal authorities to deny a renewal of our current permits or to deny operating permits for the expansion of our stack system could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acts of terrorism could negatively affect our business. Like other companies with major industrial facilities, our plants and ancillary facilities may be targets of terrorist activities. Many of these plants and facilities store significant quantities of ammonia and other items that can be dangerous if mishandled. Any damage to infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, or injury to employees, who could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terrorism, may affect our operations. Any disruption of our ability to produce or distribute our products could result in a significant decrease in revenues and significant additional costs to replace, repair or insure our assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, due to concerns related to terrorism or the potential use of certain fertilizers as explosives, local, state and federal governments could implement new regulations impacting the security of our plants, terminals and warehouses or the transportation and use of fertilizers. These regulations could result in higher operating costs or limitations on the sale of our products and could result in significant unanticipated costs, lower revenues and/or reduced profit margins. Our operations are dependent upon raw materials provided by third parties and any delay or interruption in the delivery of these raw materials may adversely affect our business. We use natural gas, ammonia and sulfur as raw materials in the manufacture of fertilizers. We purchase these raw materials from third-party suppliers. These products are transported by barge, truck, rail or pipeline to our facilities by third-party transportation providers or through the use of facilities owned by third parties. Any delays or interruptions in the delivery of these key raw materials, including those caused by capacity constraints; explosions; fires; severe weather and natural disasters; train derailments, collisions, vessel groundings and other transportation and maritime incidents; leaks and ruptures involving pipelines; deliberate sabotage and terrorist incidents; mechanical failures; unscheduled downtime; or labor difficulties, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The loss of key members of our management may adversely affect our business. We believe our continued success depends on the collective abilities and efforts of our senior management. The loss of one or more key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, if we are unable to find, hire and retain needed key personnel in the future, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. As a result of our initial public offering of common stock in August 2005, we are subject to financial reporting and other requirements for which our accounting, internal audit and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared. As a result of our initial public offering of common stock in August 2005, we are subject to reporting and other obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. These reporting and other obligations place significant demands on our management, administrative, operational, internal audit and accounting resources. We anticipate that we will need to upgrade our systems; implement additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures; expand our internal audit function; and hire additional accounting, internal audit and finance staff. If we are unable to accomplish these objectives in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with our financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies could be impaired. Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 21 CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are not statements of historical fact and may involve a number of risks and uncertainties. These statements relate to analyses and other information that are based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable. These statements may also relate to our future prospects, developments and business strategies. We have used the words "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "predict," "project," and similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions, to identify forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K. These forward-looking statements are made based on our expectations and beliefs concerning future events affecting us and are subject to uncertainties and factors relating to our operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control, that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by these forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any responsibility to release publicly any revisions to these forward-looking statements to take into account events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report. Additionally, we do not undertake any responsibility to provide updates regarding the occurrence of any unanticipated events which may cause actual results to differ from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are disclosed under "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. As stated elsewhere in this filing, such factors include, among others: •the relatively expensive and volatile cost of North American natural gas; •the cyclical nature of our business; •our history of losses; •the nature of our products as global commodities; •intense global competition in the consolidating markets in which we operate; •conditions in the U.S. agricultural industry; •weather conditions; •our inability to accurately predict seasonal demand for our products; •the concentration of our sales with CF Industries' pre-IPO owners and other large customers; •the impact of changing market conditions on our forward pricing program; •the significant risks and hazards against which we may not be fully insured; •unanticipated consequences related to future expansion of our business; •our inability to expand our business, including due to the significant resources that could be required; •potential liabilities and expenditures related to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations; •our inability to obtain or maintain required permits and governmental approvals; •acts of terrorism; •difficulties in securing the raw materials we use; •changes in global fertilizer supply and demand; •loss of key members of management; and •inability to meet financial reporting and other requirements as a public company. 22 CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 