ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before making a decision to invest in our common stock. If any of the following risks occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. We depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in volume from, any of these customers would harm our financial results. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from sales to large insurance companies. In fiscal 2007, we derived 16.2% of our revenues from our ten largest insurance company customers. The largest three of these customers accounted for 3.6%, 3.0% and 1.8%, respectively, of our revenues during this 12 period. A loss of one or more of these customers would result in a significant decrease in our revenues, including the business generated by collision repair facilities associated with those customers. We lost a customer contract in April 2006 during its renewal phase that accounted for revenues in fiscal 2006 of approximately $4.3 million and earlier this year lost our principal shared services contract, which accounted for approximately $5.8 million of revenue in fiscal 2007. Furthermore, many of our arrangements with European customers are terminable by them on short notice or at any time. In addition, disputes with customers may lead to delays in payments to us, terminations of agreements or litigation. Additional terminations or non-renewals of customer contracts or reductions in business from our large customers would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competitive pressures may require us to significantly lower our prices. Pricing pressures have required us to significantly lower prices for some of our software and services in several of our markets. We may be required to implement further price reductions in response to the following: · price reductions by competitors; · the consolidation of property and casualty insurance companies; · the introduction of competing software or services; and · a decrease in the frequency of accidents. If we are required to accept lower prices for our software and services, it would result in decreased revenues and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in or violations by us or our customers of, applicable government regulations could reduce demand for or limit our ability to provide our software and services in those jurisdictions. Our insurance company customers are subject to extensive government regulations, mainly at the state level in the U.S. and at the country level in our non-U.S. markets. Some of these regulations relate directly to our software and services, including regulations governing the use of total loss and estimating software. If our insurance company customers fail to comply with new or existing insurance regulations, including those applicable to our software and services, they could lose their certifications to provide insurance and/or reduce their usage of our software and services, either of which would reduce our revenues. Also, we are subject to direct regulation in some markets, and our failure to comply with these regulations could significantly reduce our revenues or subject us to government sanctions. In addition, future regulations could force us to implement costly changes to our software and/or databases or have the effect of prohibiting or rendering less valuable one or more of our offerings. Moreover, some states in the U.S. have changed their regulations to permit insurance companies to use book valuations for total loss calculations, making our total loss software potentially less valuable to insurance companies in those states. Some states have adopted total loss regulations, that, among other things, require that insurers use a methodology deemed acceptable to the respective government agency. We submit our methodology to such agencies, and if they do not approve our methodology, we will not be able to perform total loss valuations in their respective states. In addition, some states are considering legislation that would require insurers to use estimates from two independent services to provide total loss calculations for a damaged vehicle and would provide authority to the state insurance commissioner to determine which services qualify as independent. If passed, this legislation may prohibit us from or limit our ability to provide our products and services in those states and/or may have the effect of making our products and services less desirable to our customers. Other states are considering legislation that would limit the data that our software can provide to our insurance company customers. In the event that demand for or our ability to provide our software 13 and services decreases in particular jurisdictions due to regulatory changes, our revenues and margins may decrease. In addition, the Belgian Competition Department recently notified us that it has chosen to continue to investigate a complaint originally brought by a trade association representing collision repair facilities that was withdrawn by the trade association in 2005, relating to estimates generated by our software of the costs to repair damaged vehicles. Pursuant to the European Union competition laws, the Belgian Competition Department is asserting its authority to conduct this investigation as it relates to the Western European region. Our industry is highly competitive, and our failure to compete effectively could result in a loss of customers and market share, which could harm our revenues and operating results. The markets for our automobile insurance claims processing software and services are highly competitive. In the U.S., our principal competitors are CCC Information Services Group Inc. and Mitchell International Inc. In Europe, our principal competitors are EurotaxGlass’s Group and DAT, GmbH. If one or more of our competitors develop software or services that are superior to ours or are more effective in marketing its software or services, our market share could decrease, reducing our revenues. In addition, if one or more of our competitors retain existing or attract new customers for which we have developed new software or services, we may not realize expected revenues from these new offerings, reducing our profitability. Some of our current or future competitors may have or develop closer customer relationships, develop stronger brands, have greater access to capital, lower cost structures and/or more attractive system design and operational capabilities than we have. In addition, consolidation within our industry could result in the formation of competitors with substantially greater financial, management or marketing resources than we have and such competitors could utilize their substantially greater resources and economies of scale to develop and market competing products, divert sales away from us by offering their products at lower prices, or hire away our key employees by offering more lucrative compensation packages. Moreover, many insurance companies have historically entered into agreements with automobile insurance claims processing service providers like us and our competitors whereby the insurance company agrees to use that provider on an exclusive or preferred basis for particular products and services and agrees to require collision repair facilities, independent assessors and other vendors to use that provider. If our competitors are more successful than we are at negotiating these exclusive or preferential arrangements, we may lose market share even in markets where we retain other competitive advantages. In addition, our insurance company customers have varying degrees of in-house development capabilities, and one or more of them have expanded and may seek to further expand their capabilities in the areas in which we operate. Many of our customers are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do and could commit significant resources to product development. Our software and services have been, and may in the future be, replicated by our insurance company customers in-house, which could result in our loss of those customers and their associated repair facilities, independent assessors and other vendors, resulting in decreased revenues and net income. The time and expense associated with switching from our competitors’ software and services to ours may limit our growth. The costs for an insurance company to switch providers of claims processing software and services can be significant and the process can sometimes take 12-18 months to complete. As a result, potential customers may decide that it is not worth the time and expense to begin using our software and services, even if we offer competitive and economic advantages. If we are unable to convince these customers to 14 switch to our software and services, our ability to increase market share will be limited, which could harm our revenues and operating results. Our industry is subject to rapid technological changes, and if we fail to keep pace with these changes, our market share and revenues will decline. Our industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent introductions of, and enhancements to, existing software and services, all with an underlying pressure to reduce cost. Industry changes could render our offerings less attractive or obsolete, and we may be unable to make the necessary adjustments to our offerings at a competitive cost, or at all. We also incur substantial expenses in researching, developing, designing and marketing new software and services. The development or adaptation of these new technologies may result in unanticipated expenditures and capital costs that would not be recovered in the event that our new software or services are unsuccessful. The research, development, production and marketing of new software and services are also subject to changing market requirements, as well as the satisfaction of applicable regulatory requirements and customers’ approval procedures and other factors, each of which could prevent us from successfully marketing any new software and services or responding to competing technologies. The success of new software in our industry also often depends on the ability to be first to market, and our failure to be first to market with any particular software project could limit our ability to recover the development expenses associated with that project. If we cannot develop new technologies, software and services or any of our existing software or services are rendered obsolete, our revenues and income could decline and we may lose market share to our competitors, which would impact our future operations and financial results. We have a very limited operating history as a stand-alone company, which may make it difficult to compare our current operating results to prior periods. Prior to the Acquisition, our predecessor operated as a business unit of ADP. Our predecessor relied on ADP during this period for many of its internal functions, including accounting, tax, payroll, technology and administrative and operational support. In connection with the Acquisition, ADP agreed to continue providing us with systems, network, programming and operational support and other administrative services for periods ranging from three to six months following the date of the Acquisition. Although we have replaced these services either through third-party contracts or internal sources, we may not be able to perform any or all of these services in a cost-effective manner. If we are unable to maintain substitute arrangements on terms that are favorable to us or effectively perform these services internally, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, the historical financial information of our predecessor included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not reflect what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been had we operated as a separate stand-alone company without the shared resources of ADP for the periods presented and are not necessarily indicative of our future results of operations, financial position and cash flows. For example, ADP allocated expenses and other centralized operating costs to our predecessor for periods prior to the Acquisition, and the allocated costs included in our predecessor’s historical financial statements could differ from amounts that we would have incurred if we had operated on a stand-alone basis. We have a large amount of goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of the Aacquisition. Our earnings will be harmed if we suffer an impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets. We have a large amount of goodwill and other intangible assets and are required to perform an annual assessment for possible impairment for accounting purposes. At June 30, 2007, we had goodwill and other intangible assets of $932.2 million. If we do not achieve our planned operating results or other 15 factors impair these assets, we may be required to incur a non-cash impairment charge. Any impairment charges in the future will adversely affect our results of operations. We have experienced net losses since the Acquisition, and future net losses may cause our stock price to decline. We had a net loss of $80.9 million for fiscal 2007. We expect to continue to incur net losses in the future, due primarily to amortization of the remaining $363.0 million of intangible assets that we had as of June 30, 2007 and interest expense associated with our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we will become or remain profitable, and future net losses may reduce our stock price. We may incur significant restructuring and severance charges over the next 12 months, which would harm our operating results and cash position or increase debt. We incurred restructuring charges (benefits) of $5.5 million in fiscal 2005 (Predecessor), $(0.5) million during the period from July 1, 2005 through April 13, 2006, $2.9 million in fiscal 2006 and $6.0 million in fiscal 2007. These charges consisted primarily of termination benefits paid or to be paid to employees. As of June 30, 2007, we had remaining liabilities associated with these restructuring charges of $5.6 million. We continue to evaluate our existing operations and capacity, and expect to incur additional restructuring charges as a result of future personnel reductions, related restructuring and productivity and technology enhancements, which may exceed the levels of our historical charges. We are currently evaluating several plans that, if all implemented, would result in restructuring and severance charges of approximately $3.0 million to $4.0 million over the next twelve months. These potential charges, consisting primarily of termination benefits, would significantly reduce our cash position or increase debt. Our software and services rely on information generated by third parties and any interruption of our access to such information could materially harm our operating results. We believe that our success depends significantly on our ability to provide our customers access to data from many different sources. For example, a substantial portion of the data used in our repair estimating software is derived from parts and repair data provided by, among others, original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, aftermarket parts suppliers, data aggregators, automobile dealerships and vehicle repair facilities. We obtain much of our data about vehicle parts and components and collision repair labor and costs through license agreements with OEMs, automobile dealers, and other providers. EurotaxGlass’s Group, one of our primary competitors in Europe, provides us with valuation and paint data for use in our European markets pursuant to a similar arrangement. Many of the license agreements through which we obtain data are for terms of one year and/or may be terminated without cost to the provider on short notice. If one or more of our licenses are terminated or if we are unable to renew one or more of these licenses on favorable terms or at all, we may be unable to access alternative data sources that would provide comparable information without incurring substantial additional costs. Recently, some OEM sources have indicated to us that they intend to materially increase the licensing costs for their data. While we do not believe that our access to any individual source of data is material to our operations, prolonged industry-wide price increases or reductions in data availability could make receiving certain data more difficult and could result in significant cost increases, which would materially harm our operating results. 16 System failures, delays and other problems could harm our reputation and business, cause us to lose customers and expose us to customer liability. Our success depends on our ability to provide accurate, consistent and reliable services and information to our customers on a timely basis. Our operations could be interrupted by any damage to or failure of: · our computer software or hardware or our customers’ or third-party service providers’ computer software or hardware; · our networks, our customers’ networks or our third-party service providers’ networks; and · our connections to and outsourced service arrangements with third parties, such as Acxiom, which hosts data and applications for us and our customers. Our systems and operations are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from: · power loss or other telecommunications failures; · earthquakes, fires, floods, hurricanes and other natural disasters; · computer viruses or software defects; · physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events; and · errors by our employees or third-party service providers. These risks will be exacerbated by our planned migration of our systems and operations to a more centralized platform. Because many of our services play a mission-critical role for our customers, any damage to or failure of the infrastructure we rely on, including those of our customers and vendors, could disrupt our ability to deliver information to and provide services for our customers in a timely manner, which could result in the loss of current and/or potential customers. In addition, we generally indemnify our customers to a limited extent for damages they sustain related to the unavailability of, or errors in, the software and services we provide; therefore, a significant interruption of, or errors in, our software and services could expose us to significant customer liability. Security breaches could result in lost revenues, litigation claims and/or harm to our reputation. Our databases contain confidential data relating to our customers, policyholders and other industry participants. Security breaches, particularly those involving connectivity to the Internet, and the trend toward broad consumer and general public notification of such incidents, could significantly harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our databases could be vulnerable to physical system or network break-ins or other inappropriate access, which could result in claims against us and/or harm our reputation. In addition, potential competitors may obtain our data illegally and use it to provide services that are competitive to ours. We operate in 49 countries, where we are subject to country-specific risks that could adversely impact our business and results of operations. We generated approximately 69.0% of our revenues during fiscal 2007 outside the U.S., and we expect sales from non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a majority of our total sales. Sales and operations in individual countries are subject to changes in local government regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, taxation, currency exchange controls and repatriation of earnings. Our results are also subject to the difficulties of coordinating our operations across 49 different countries. Furthermore, our business strategy includes expansion of our operations into new and developing markets, which will require even greater international coordination, expose us to additional 17 local government regulations and involve markets in which we do not have experience or established operations. In addition, our operations in each country are vulnerable to changes in socio-economic conditions and monetary and fiscal policies, intellectual property protection disputes, the settlement of legal disputes through foreign legal systems, the collection of receivables through foreign legal systems, exposure to possible expropriation or other governmental actions, unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks. These and other factors may harm our operations in those countries and therefore our business and results of operations. Our operating results may vary widely from period to period, which may cause our stock price to decline. Our contracts with insurance companies generally require time-consuming authorization procedures by the customer, which can result in additional delays between when we incur development costs and when we begin generating revenues from those software or services offerings. Our quarterly and annual revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future. In addition, we incur significant operating expenses while we are researching and designing new software and related services, and we typically do not receive corresponding payments in those same periods. As a result, the number of new software and services offerings that we are able to implement, successfully or otherwise, can cause significant variations in our cash flow from operations, and we may experience a decrease in our net income as we incur the expenses necessary to develop and design new software and services. We also may experience variations in our earnings due to other factors beyond our control, such as the introduction of new software or services by our competitors, customer acceptance of new software or services, the volume of usage of our offerings by existing customers and competitive conditions in our industry generally. We may also incur significant or unanticipated expenses when contracts expire, are terminated or are not renewed. Any of these events could harm our financial condition and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline. Our future operating results may be subject to volatility as a result of exposure to foreign currency exchange risks. We derive most of our revenues, and incur most of our costs, in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, principally the Euro. We currently do not hedge our exposure to foreign currency risks. In our historical financial statements, we re-measure our local currency financial results into U.S. dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period or the exchange rate at the end of that period. These re-measurements resulted in foreign currency translation adjustments of $10.9 million in fiscal 2005 (Predecessor), $3.8 million in fiscal 2006 and $4.8 million in fiscal 2007. Further fluctuations in exchange rates against the U.S. dollar could decrease our revenues, increase our costs and expenses and therefore harm our future operating results. Future acquisitions and joint ventures or dispositions may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities. We have grown in part, and in the future may continue to grow, by making acquisitions or entering into joint ventures or similar arrangements. Acquisitions and joint ventures require significant investment and managerial attention, which may be diverted from our other operations, and could entail a number of additional risks, including: · problems with effective integration of operations and/or management; · loss of key customers, suppliers or employees; · increased operating costs; and · exposure to unanticipated liabilities. 18 Furthermore, we participate in joint ventures in some countries. Our partners in these ventures may have interests and goals that are inconsistent with or different from ours, which could result in the joint venture taking actions that negatively impact our growth in the local market and consequently harm our business or financial condition. If we are unable to find suitable partners or if suitable partners are unwilling to enter into joint ventures with us, our growth into new geographic markets may slow, which would harm our results of operations. Additionally, we may finance future acquisitions and/or joint ventures with cash from operations, additional indebtedness and/or the issuance of additional securities, any of which may impair the operation of our business or present additional risks, such as reduced liquidity or increased interest expense. We may seek also to restructure our business in the future by disposing of certain of our assets, which may harm our future operating results, divert significant managerial attention from our operations and/or require us to accept non-cash consideration, the market value of which may fluctuate. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to develop and market new software and services and to generate revenues at levels sufficient to cover ongoing expenses. If we need to raise additional capital, equity or debt financing may not be available at all or may be available only on terms that are not favorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our stockholders could result, and in any case such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of the shares offered hereby. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, we may be unable to support future growth or operating requirements and, accordingly, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Privacy concerns could require us to exclude data from our software and services, which may reduce the value of our offerings to our customers, damage our reputation and deter current and potential users from using our software and services. In the European Union and other jurisdictions, there are significant restrictions on the use of personal data. Violations of these laws would harm our business. In addition, concerns about our collection, use or sharing of automobile insurance claims information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and operating results. Our business depends on our brands, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brands, our business and operating results could be harmed. We believe that the brand identity that we have developed has significantly contributed to the success of our business. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing our brands, such as Audatex, ABZ, Hollander, Informex, Sidexa and IMS, are critical to the expansion of our software and services to new customers in both existing and new markets. Maintaining and enhancing our brands may require us to make substantial investments and these investments may not be successful. If we fail to promote and maintain our brands or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business, operating results and financial condition will be harmed. We anticipate that, as our markets become increasingly competitive, maintaining and enhancing our brands may become increasingly difficult and expensive. Maintaining and enhancing our brands will depend largely on our ability to be a technology innovator and to continue to provide high quality software and services, which we may not do successfully. To date, we have engaged in relatively little direct brand promotion activities, and we may not successfully implement brand enhancement efforts in the future. 19 Third parties may claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights, and we could be prevented from selling our software or suffer significant litigation expense even if these claims have no merit. Our competitive position is driven in part by our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Third parties, however, may claim that we, our software or operations or any products or technology, including claims data or other data, we obtain from other parties are infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others, and we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our assets, technology, software and services. Any litigation initiated against us regarding patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights, even litigation relating to claims without merit, could be costly and time-consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from operating our business. In addition, if any third party has a meritorious or successful claim that we are infringing upon its intellectual property rights, we may be forced to change our software or enter into licensing arrangement with third parties, which may be costly or impractical. These claims may also require us to stop selling our software and/or services as currently designed, which could harm our competitive position. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions that prevent the further development and sale of certain of our software or services and may result in a material loss in revenue. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property and property rights, either without incurring significant costs or at all, which would harm our business. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, know-how, trademarks, license agreements and contractual provisions, as well as internal procedures, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. The steps we have taken and will take to protect our intellectual property rights may not deter infringement, duplication, misappropriation or violation of our intellectual property by third parties. In addition, any of the intellectual property we own or license from third parties may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. Furthermore, the laws of some of the countries in which products similar to ours may be developed may not protect our software and intellectual property to the same extent as U.S. laws or at all. We may be unable to protect our rights in trade secrets and unpatented proprietary technology in these countries. We may also be unable to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or trade secrets by consultants, vendors, former employees and current employees, despite the existence of nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions. If our trade secrets become known, we may lose our competitive advantages. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, we may not receive any return on the resources expended to create the intellectual property or generate any competitive advantage based on it. Pursuing infringers of our intellectual property could result in significant litigation costs and diversion of management resources, and any failure to pursue or successfully litigate claims against infringers could result in competitors using our technology and offering similar products and services, potentially resulting in loss of competitive advantage and decreased revenues. Currently, we believe that one or more of our customers in our EMEA segment may be infringing our intellectual property by making and distributing unauthorized copies of our software. Enforcement of these intellectual property rights may be difficult and may require considerable resources. We depend on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace. If we lose the services of these individuals, or are unable to attract new talent, our business will be adversely affected. We depend upon the ability and experience of our key personnel, who have substantial experience with our operations, the rapidly changing automobile insurance claims processing industry and the markets in which we offer our software and services. The loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or key employees, such as our Chief Executive Officer, Tony Aquila, could harm our business and 20 operations. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, manage and retain other qualified management, sales and technical personnel as we grow. We may not be able to continue to attract or retain such personnel in the future. We require a significant amount of cash to service our indebtedness, which reduces the cash available to finance our organic growth, make strategic acquisitions and enter into alliances and joint ventures. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of June 30, 2007, our indebtedness, including current maturities, was $613.3 million, and we would have been able to borrow an additional $41.9 million under our amended and restated senior credit facility. During fiscal 2007, our aggregate interest expense was $69.7 million, and the cash paid for interest was $66.8 million. Our indebtedness could: · make us more vulnerable to unfavorable economic conditions and a reduction in our revenues; · make it more difficult to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; · require us to dedicate or reserve a large portion of our cash flow from operations for making payments on our indebtedness, which would prevent us from using it for other purposes, including software development; · make us susceptible to fluctuations in market interest rates that affect the cost of our borrowings to the extent that our variable rate debt is not covered by interest rate derivative agreements; and · make it more difficult to pursue strategic acquisitions, joint ventures, alliances and collaborations. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors. Some of these factors are beyond our control. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness and to meet our other obligations and commitments, we may be required to refinance our debt or to dispose of assets to obtain funds for such purpose. We cannot assure you that debt refinancings or asset dispositions could be completed on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, if at all, or would be permitted by the terms of our debt instruments. Our amended and restated senior credit facility limits our ability to pay dividends, incur additional debt, make acquisitions and make other investments. Our amended and restated senior credit facility contains covenants that restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to make certain distributions with respect to our capital stock, prepay other debt, encumber our assets, incur additional indebtedness, make capital expenditures above specified levels, engage in business combinations or undertake various other corporate activities. These covenants may require us also to maintain certain specified financial ratios, including those relating to total leverage and interest coverage. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in the acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness. If acceleration occurs, we would not be able to repay our debt and it is unlikely that we would be able to borrow sufficient additional funds to refinance our debt. Even if new financing is made available to us, it may not be available on acceptable or reasonable terms. An acceleration of our indebtedness would impair our ability to operate as a going concern. 21 Current or future litigation could have a material adverse impact on us. We have been and continue to be involved in legal proceedings, claims and other litigation that arise in the ordinary course of business. For example, we have been and are currently involved in disputes with collision repair facilities, acting individually and as a group in some situations that claim that we have colluded with our insurance company customers to depress the repair time estimates generated by our repair estimating software. In addition, we are currently one of the defendants in a putative class action lawsuit alleging that we have colluded with our insurance company customers to cause the estimates of vehicle fair market value generated by our total loss estimation software to be unfairly low. Furthermore, we are also subject to assertions by our customers that we have not complied with the terms of our agreements with them, which could in the future lead to arbitration or litigation. While we do not expect the outcome of any such pending or threatened litigation to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, litigation is unpredictable and excessive verdicts, both in the form of monetary damages and injunction, could occur. In the future, we could incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could harm our financial position and results of operations. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions by regulatory authorities. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for our annual report for fiscal 2008. If we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we may not detect errors on a timely basis and our financial statements may be materially misstated. We will continue to evaluate our internal controls systems to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls. We will continue to perform the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. While we anticipate being able to fully implement the requirements relating to internal controls and all other aspects of Section 404 by the above deadline, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, or the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results or investors’ confidence in us and could cause our stock price to fall. In addition, the controls and procedures that we will implement may not comply with all of the relevant rules and regulations of the SEC and NYSE. If we fail to develop and maintain effective controls and procedures, we may be unable to provide financial information in a timely and reliable manner, subjecting us to sanctions and harm to our reputation. Requirements associated with being a public company increase our costs significantly, as well as divert significant company resources and management attention. Prior to our initial public offering, we were not subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, or the other rules and regulations of the SEC or any securities exchange relating to public companies. We are working with our legal, independent accounting and financial advisors to identify those areas in which changes should be made to our financial and management control systems to manage our growth and our obligations as a public company. These areas include corporate governance, corporate control, internal audit, disclosure controls and procedures and financial reporting and accounting systems. We have made, and will continue to make, changes in these and other areas. However, the expenses that are required as a result of being a public company could be material. Compliance with the various reporting and other requirements applicable to public companies also require considerable time and attention of management. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of 22 the additional costs we may incur, the timing of such costs or the degree of impact that our management’s attention to these matters will have on our business. In addition, the changes we make may not be sufficient to allow us to satisfy our obligations as a public company on a timely basis. In addition, being a public company could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may have the effect of delaying, discouraging or preventing a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders may receive a premium for their shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our board of directors. These provisions include: · authorization of the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without the need for action by stockholders; · the removal of directors only by the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of the shares of our capital stock entitled to vote; · any vacancy on the board of directors, however occurring, including a vacancy resulting from an enlargement of the board, may only be filled by vote of the directors then in office; · inability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders and limited ability of stockholders to take action by written consent; and · advance notice requirements for board nominations and proposing matters to be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, and as a result, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates. We currently do not expect to declare or pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, our amended and restated senior credit facility limits our ability to declare and pay cash dividends on our common stock. As a result, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in us will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates and you sell your shares at a profit. We cannot assure you that the market price for our common stock will ever exceed the price that you pay. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 