Risk factors Investors should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Annual Report and the following risk factors that affect us and our industry. The risks below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we presently deem immaterial may also affect our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially or adversely affected by any of these risks. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face as described below and elsewhere. See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to our Operations Our revenues are highly dependent on a limited number of clients and the loss of any one of our major clients could adversely affect our revenues. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of clients in a few select industries. In 2006, 2007 and 2008 our largest client, General Electric, accounted for, 14.6% 11.8% and 10.7% of our revenues and our second largest client accounted for 9.6% , 9.1% and 9.8% of our revenues. In 2006, 2007 and 2008, our top ten clients accounted for 53.1%, 47.6% and 45.6% of our revenues. As a result of our reliance on a limited number of clients, we may face pricing and other competitive pressures. The volume of work performed for specific clients is likely to vary from year to year, especially since we are not the exclusive external service provider for our clients. In addition, there are a number of factors, other than our performance, that could cause the loss of a client and that may not be predictable. For example, our clients may decide to reduce spending on IT services or sourcing from us due to a challenging economic environment and other factors, internal and external, relating to their business such as restructuring or supplier rationalizations. The loss of any one of our major clients, a decrease in the volume of work they outsource to us or a decrease in the price at which we sell our services to them could adversely affect our revenues. Our client contracts, including those with our two largest customers, typically can be terminated without cause and with little or no notice or penalty, which could negatively impact our revenues and profitability. Our clients typically retain us through non-exclusive master services agreements, or MSAs. Most of our client project contracts, including those that are on a fixed-price and fixed-price service level agreement, or SLA, basis, can be terminated with or without cause, with 0 to 90 days notice and without termination-related penalties. Our MSAs typically do not include any commitment by our clients to give us a specific volume of business or future work. Additionally, certain of our MSAs do not require the client to make payments for any services or work product reasonably deemed unacceptable to the client. Our business is dependent on the decisions and actions of our clients, many of which are outside our control, which might result in the termination of a project or the loss of a client and we could face liabilities as a result of such termination. Our clients may demand price reductions, change their outsourcing strategy by limiting the number of suppliers they use, moving more work in-house or to our competitors or replacing their existing software with packaged software supported by licensors. Any of these decisions or actions could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our revenues are highly dependent on clients located in the United States. Economic slowdowns or factors that affect the economic health of the United States may adversely affect our business. In 2006, 2007 and 2008, approximately 80.8% , 77.9% and 75.9% of our revenues were derived from clients located in the United States. The economic slowdown in the United States witnessed during the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009, may result in our clients reducing or postponing their technology spending significantly, which may in turn lower the demand for our services. Our clients operate in a limited number of industries. Factors that adversely affect these industries or IT spending by companies within these industries may adversely affect our business. We derive a large proportion of our revenues from clients which operate in a limited number of industries. In 2006, 2007 and 2008, we derived 23.2%, 23.6% and 24.7% of our revenues from the insurance industry, 21.7% , 23.8% and 25.1% of our revenues from the manufacturing industry, 18.9% , 13.4% and 12.6% of our revenues from the communications, media and entertainment industry, and 15.3% , 14.1% and 12.8% of our revenues from the financial services industry, respectively. The ongoing crisis in the financial and credit markets, particularly, in the United States, has led to a significant change in the financial services industry, with the United States federal government and other national governments being forced to take over or provide financial support to leading financial institutions and with leading investment banks going bankrupt or being forced to sell themselves in distressed circumstances. Significant changes in the financial services industry or any of the other industries on which we focus, or a significant consolidation in any such industry, may reduce the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. Any significant decrease in IT services spending by clients in these 6 Table of Contents industries or other industries from which we derive significant revenues in the future may reduce the demand for our services. Further, any significant decrease in the growth of the insurance, manufacturing, financial services or communications, media and entertainment industries, or significant consolidation in those industries, or any decrease in growth or consolidation in other industry segments in which we operate, may reduce the demand for our services. The ongoing financial crisis could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The global financial crisis affecting the financial markets and banking industry has resulted in a tightening in the credit markets , lower consumer and business spending; lower consumer networth; low level of liquidity in many financial markets; and extreme volatility in credit, fixed income and equity markets. The economic outlook for 2009 has worsened significantly and it appears the global economic recession will continue for some time. This situation has affected the budgeting and purchasing behavior of our customers. Many customers have delayed or reduced technology purchases. This has resulted in reductions in sales of our services, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. If global economic and market conditions do not improve, or continue to deteriorate, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We face intense competition for employees in our market. Our success depends in large part upon our highly skilled software professionals and our ability to attract and retain these personnel. Our ability to execute projects and to obtain new clients depends largely on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly-skilled software professionals, particularly project managers and other mid-level professionals. Our attrition rates were 28.5% , 26.5% and 20.0% in 2006, 2007 and 2008. We define our attrition rate as the ratio of the number of employees that have left us during a defined period to the average number of employees that are on our payroll during such period. We invest in training the professionals that we hire to perform the services we provide. These professionals are often targeted by the lateral recruitment efforts of our competitors. If we cannot hire and retain additional qualified personnel, our ability to bid on and obtain new projects may be impaired and our revenues could decline. In addition, we may not be able to expand our business effectively. We believe that there is significant worldwide competition for software professionals with the skills necessary to perform the services we offer, including from non-Indian, international service providers such as Accenture Limited, or Accenture, and International Business Machines Corporation, or IBM. Additionally, we may not be able to redeploy and retrain our software professionals to keep pace with continuing changes in technology, evolving standards and changing client preferences. Our revenues, expenses and profits are difficult to predict and can vary significantly from quarter to quarter. This could cause the market value of our equity shares and the ADSs to decline. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Therefore, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. It is possible that in the future some of our quarterly results of operations may be below the expectations of market analysts and our investors, which could lead to a significant decline of the market value of our equity shares and the ADSs. As a large part of any quarter’s revenues are derived from existing customers, revenue growth can vary due to project start and stops and customer-specific situations. Operating income variation is due to various factors such as changes in compensation, which are typically effected in the second quarter and reduce our operating margin in such quarter; changes in our use of onsite subcontractors, with higher usage in any quarter leading to lower operating income; changes in the ratio of onsite and offshore services, with higher offshore revenues enhancing the particular quarter’s operating income; changes in utilization of resources, with lower utilization leading to reduction in operating income; and changes in foreign exchange rates. We also experience variations in immigration costs. Factors which affect the fluctuation of our revenues, expenses and profits include: · variations, expected or unexpected, in the duration, size, timing and scope of our projects, particularly with our major clients; · changes in our pricing policies or those of our clients or competitors; · the proportion of services that we perform in our development centers in India as opposed to outside India; · the effect of seasonal hiring patterns, unanticipated attrition and the time required to train and productively utilize our new employees, particularly software professionals; · annual increases in compensation of our employees; 7 Table of Contents · the size and timing of expansion of our facilities; · unanticipated cancellations, non-renewal of our contracts by our clients, contract terminations or deferrals of projects; and · changes in our employee utilization rate, which is affected by various factors. A significant part of our expenses, particularly those related to personnel and facilities, are fixed in advance of any particular quarter. As a result, unanticipated variations in the number and timing of our projects or employee utilization rates may cause significant variations in our operating results in any particular quarter. There are also a number of factors other than our performance that are not within our control that could cause fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. These include: · the duration of tax holidays or exemptions and the availability of other Government of India incentives; · the outcome of any tax, legal or regulatory review, action or litigation; · currency exchange rate fluctuations, particularly when the rupee appreciates in value against the U.S. dollar since the majority of our revenues are in U.S. dollars and a significant part of our expenses are in rupees; and · other general economic factors. Consolidation in the industries that we serve could adversely affect our business. Companies in the industries that we serve may seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. If two or more of our current clients merge or consolidate and combine their operations, it may decrease the amount of work that we perform for these clients. If one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for its consulting, systems integration and technology, or outsourcing services, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work. The increased market power of larger companies could also increase pricing and competitive pressures on us. Any of these possible results of industry consolidation could adversely affect our business. Our earnings may be adversely affected if we receive an adverse determination resulting from a pending U.S. Internal Revenue Service tax review of our U.S. operations. We face challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of current taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. To the extent we are able to prevail in matters for which accruals have been established or are required to pay amounts in excess of such accruals, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially affected. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) completed its assessment of tax returns for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004 of Patni Americas, Inc. and for the years ended March 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005 of our U.S. branch. Based on the completion of assessment of these years, we reviewed the adequacy of the previously established tax exposure reserves with respect to these years and re-measured the established tax positions for the latter years based on those tax assessments. As a result, we made adjustments totaling to $ 18.2 million to our income statement for the year ended December 31, 2008. See “Item 5A- Operating and Financial Review and Prospects - Operating Results — Taxes”. As the IRS review for 2005 through 2006 began in the last quarter of 2008, we do not anticipate that the total tax liability will change significantly due to the settlement of audits or the expiration of statute of limitations prior to December 31, 2009. We operate in a highly competitive environment and this competitive pressure on our business is likely to continue. We operate in a highly competitive environment and this competitive pressure on our business is likely to continue. The market for IT services is rapidly evolving and highly competitive. We expect that competition will continue to intensify. We face competition or competitive pressure from: · Indian IT services companies, such as Tata Consultancy Services Limited, Infosys Technologies Limited, Wipro Limited and HCL Technologies Limited; · international IT services companies, such as Accenture, Cognizant Technology Solutions, Computer Sciences Corporation, Sapient Corporation and Electronic Data Systems; · divisions of large multinational technology firms such as IBM, and Hewlett-Packard Company, or Hewlett-Packard; 8 Table of Contents · in-house IT departments of large corporations; · other international, national, regional and local firms from a variety of market segments, including major international accounting firms, systems consulting and implementation firms, applications software firms, service groups of computer equipment companies, general management consulting firms, programming companies and temporary staffing firms; · offshore service providers in other countries with low wage costs such as China and the Philippines, and countries in Eastern Europe and Latin America; and · involvement of third party intermediaries who negotiate IT services and outsourcing contracts on behalf of their clients. A number of our international competitors have set up operations in India. Further, a number of our international competitors with existing operations in India have ramped up their presence as offshore operations in India have become an important element of their delivery strategy. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources and generate greater revenues than we do. Clients may prefer vendors that have delivery centers located globally or are based in countries that are more cost-competitive than India. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our clients while competing against such competitors. We believe that our ability to compete also depends in part on a number of factors beyond our control, including the ability of our competitors to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled technical employees, the price at which our competitors offer comparable services and the extent of our competitors’ responsiveness to client needs. Any inability to manage our growth could disrupt our business and reduce our profitability. Our revenues have grown at a compound annual growth rate, or CAGR, of 21.8% from $ 326.6 million in 2004 to $ 718.9 million in 2008. The total number of our employees has grown from 9,661 as of December 31, 2004 to 14,894 as of December 31, 2008. Our operations have also expanded through the development, enhancement and acquisition of new service offerings and industry expertise, and the broadening of our geographic presence. Specifically, we: · augmented our offerings in our service lines in business process outsourcing, product engineering, infrastructure management services and quality assurance; · gained expertise and operations in the provision of services to clients in the communications, media and utilities industry through our acquisition of Patni Telecom Solutions, Inc., or Patni Telecom (formerly Cymbal Corporation, or Cymbal) and Logan Orviss International, or Logan Orviss; · expanded our expertise and market specific services in the life sciences practice through our acquisition of Patni Life Sciences Inc. (formerly Taratec Development Corporation, or Taratec); · expanded our expertise and operations in our product engineering technology practices; · enhanced our operations in Europe and Asia; and · expanded our facilities in India. We expect our future growth to place significant demands on both our management and our resources. This will require us to continuously evolve and improve our operational, financial and internal controls across the organization. In particular, continued expansion increases the challenges we face in: · recruiting, training and retaining sufficient skilled technical, sales and management personnel; · adhering to our high quality and process execution standards; · maintaining high levels of client satisfaction; · creating and managing economies of scale; · managing a larger number of clients in a greater number of industry sectors; · integrating expanded operations while preserving our culture, values and entrepreneurial environment; and · developing and improving our internal administrative infrastructure, particularly our financial, operational, communications and other internal systems. Any inability to manage our growth may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents We may face difficulties in providing services within our industry and technology practices, offering new and existing service lines and managing increasingly large and complex projects, which could lead to clients discontinuing their work with us. We have been expanding the nature and scope of our engagements by extending the breadth of our practices and the services we offer. The success of our new practices and service offerings is dependent, in part, upon demand for such services by our existing and new clients and our ability to meet this demand in a cost-competitive and effective manner. We cannot be certain that we will be able to attract existing and new clients for such new services or effectively meet our clients’ needs. We intend for the increased breadth of our practices and service offerings to result in larger and more complex projects for our clients. To achieve this result, we need to establish closer relationships with our clients and develop a thorough understanding of their operations. Our ability to establish such relationships will depend on the proficiency of our management personnel, software professionals and, if necessary subcontractors, as well as other competitive factors such as our performance and delivery capability. Larger and more complex projects may involve multiple engagements or stages, and there is a risk that a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages or may cancel or delay additional planned engagements. Such cancellations or delays make it difficult to plan for project resource requirements, and failure to plan appropriately may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business will suffer if we fail to keep pace with the rapid changes in technology in the industries on which we focus. We need to anticipate and develop new services and enhance existing services in order to keep our clients satisfied. The IT services market is characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, changing client preferences and new product and service introductions. Our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate these advances and develop new service offerings to meet client needs. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these advances on a timely basis or, if we do respond, the services or technologies we develop may not be successful in the marketplace. Furthermore, services or technologies that are developed by our competitors may render our services non-competitive or obsolete. We have undertaken and may continue to undertake strategic acquisitions, which may prove to be difficult to integrate and manage or may not be successful, and may result in increased expenses or write-offs. We have pursued and may continue to pursue strategic acquisition opportunities to enhance our capabilities and address gaps in industry expertise, technical expertise and geographic coverage. It is possible that we may not identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates or joint venture partners, or if we do identify suitable candidates or partners, we may not complete those transactions on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all. The inability to identify suitable acquisition targets or investments or joint ventures or the inability to complete such transactions may adversely affect our competitiveness and our growth prospects. If we acquire another company, we could have difficulty in assimilating such company’s personnel, operations, products, services, technology and software into our operations. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work with us. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. Further, any such acquisition, merger or joint venture that we attempt, whether or not completed, or any media reports or rumors with respect to any such transactions, may adversely affect the value of our equity shares and the ADSs. We are investing substantial cash assets in new facilities and physical infrastructure, and our profitability could be reduced if our business does not grow proportionately. We expect to invest approximately $ 15 million to $ 20 million in capital expenditures in 2009. Most of the new spending will be for construction of new facilities and physical infrastructure. However, we may not receive the benefits that we expect from our investment in these facilities. Further, we may encounter cost overruns or project delays in connection with new facilities. These expansions will increase our fixed costs. If we are unable to grow our business and revenues proportionately, our profitability will be reduced. We are subject to risks arising from exchange rate fluctuations. Although our functional currency is the Indian rupee, we transact a significant portion of our business in several other currencies, particularly the U.S. dollar. Our exchange rate risk primarily arises from our foreign currency revenues, receivables, payables and other foreign currency assets and liabilities. We expect that a majority of our revenues will continue to be generated in U.S. dollars for the foreseeable future. In 2006, 2007 and 2008 our dollar denominated revenues represented 87.1%, 82.9% and 80.7% of our total revenues respectively. A significant portion of our expenses, comprising the cost of revenues and selling, marketing and general administrative expenses, are and will continue to be denominated and incurred in Indian rupees. In 2006, 2007, and 2008 rupee costs represented 37.0%, 42% and 40.8% of these cost of revenues and selling, marketing and general administrative expenses. Therefore, changes in the exchange rate between the rupee and other currencies, especially with respect to the U.S. dollar, may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, other income, cost of 10 Table of Contents services, operating costs and net income, which may in turn have a negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. On December 31, 2008, the exchange rate per U.S. dollar was Rs. 48.58 compared to Rs. 39.41 on December 31, 2007 and Rs. 44.11 on December 31, 2006. On June 12, 2009 the exchange rate per US $ was Rs. 47.60. The exchange rate between the rupee and the dollar has changed substantially in recent years and may fluctuate substantially in the future. We have sought to reduce the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results by purchasing derivative instruments such as foreign exchange forward contracts, purchased options and net written options. As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding forward contracts in the amount of $ 285.4 million, JPY 400.0 million ($ 4.4 million), AUD 1.0 million ($ 0.7 million) and GBP 1.5 million ($ 2.2 million), outstanding written options of GBP 0.9 million ($ 1.3 million), Euro 1.6 million ($ 2.2 million) and JPY 150 million ($ 1.7 million ), outstanding currency purchased options in the amount of $ 27.0 million, outstanding currency purchased options, net sell in the amount of $ 61.3 million and outstanding currency written options in the amount of $ 21.0 million. We have increased our foreign currency hedging activity given the recent volatility in the value of the Indian rupee against the U.S. dollar. However, we may not be able to purchase contracts to insulate ourselves adequately from foreign currency exchange risks. In addition, any such contracts may not perform effectively as a hedging mechanism.or we may incur losses in such derivative instruments which may adversely affect our profits in a quarter or a financial year. In 2006 and 2008 we had a net foreign exchange loss of $ 2.7 million and $ 18.4 million and in 2007 we had a net foreign exchange gain of $ 23.4 million. See “Item 11.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk — Components of Market Risk - Exchange Rate Risk”. Our success depends in large part upon our senior management and key personnel and our ability to attract and retain them. We are highly dependent on our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and other members of the executive leadership team. We have recently experienced a change in our senior management with Mr. Narendra K. Patni no longer continuing as the Chief Executive Officer and being replaced by Mr. Jeya Kumar in February 2009. Our future performance will be dependent upon the continued service of these persons. We do not maintain key man life insurance for any of the senior members of our management team or other key personnel. Competition for senior management in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to retain such senior management personnel or attract and retain new senior management personnel in the future. The loss of any of the members of our senior management or other key personnel may adversely affect our business. Our revenues could be significantly affected if the governments in the United States or other countries in which our customers are based restrict companies from outsourcing work to non-domestic corporations. Offshore outsourcing has become a politically sensitive topic in the United States and Europe due to its perceived association with the loss of jobs in such countries. In the United States, in particular, there has been increasing political and media attention on these issues following the growth of offshore outsourcing. Current or prospective clients may elect to perform services we offer or themselves may be discouraged from transferring these services to offshore providers to avoid any negative perception that may be associated with using an offshore provider. These trends could harm our ability to compete effectively with competitors that operate primarily out of facilities located in the United States. A variety of U.S. federal and state legislation has been proposed that, if enacted, could restrict or discourage U.S. companies from outsourcing their services to companies outside the United States. In addition, it is possible that legislation could be adopted that would restrict U.S. private sector companies that have federal or state government contracts from outsourcing their services to offshore service providers. Because most of our clients are located in the United States, any expansion of existing laws or the enactment of new legislation restricting offshore outsourcing by U.S. companies could adversely impact our ability to do business. Our inability to complete fixed-price contracts within budget and at the required level of performance could reduce our revenues and profitability. We derived 35.2% , 32.4% and 36.0% of our revenues from fixed-price contracts in 2006 , 2007 and 2008. We bear the risk of cost overruns, completion delays and wage inflation in connection with all fixed-price projects, any of which may result in a decrease in our margins from work performed on fixed-price contracts. Our revenues from fixed-price contracts also include revenues from fixed-price SLAs, which are conditioned upon our meeting predetermined performance levels. Any failure to meet such performance levels could result in a reduction in our revenues. Any failure to accurately estimate the resources and time required for a project or any failure to complete our contractual obligations at the committed performance level could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our ability to expand our business and procure new contracts or enter into beneficial business arrangements may be affected by non-competition clauses in our agreements with existing clients or business partners. Certain of our existing MSAs and other agreements have non-competition clauses, which restrict us from providing services to competitors of our existing clients or entering new markets where a business partner may already have a presence. Many of our MSAs contain clauses that restrict our employees working for a particular 11 Table of Contents client from providing services to a competitor of that client. Such clauses may restrict our ability to offer services to clients in a specific industry in which we have acquired expertise and may adversely affect our business and growth. We may be liable to our clients for damages caused by system failures or breaches of security obligations. Many of our contracts involve projects that are critical to the operations of our clients’ businesses. Further, our client contracts may require us to comply with certain security obligations including maintaining network security and back-up data, ensuring our network is virus free and verifying the integrity of employees that work with our clients by conducting background checks. Any failure in a client’s system or breach of security relating to the services we provide to the client could damage our reputation or result in a claim for substantial damages against us. We cannot assure you that any limitations of liability set forth in our service contracts will be enforceable in all instances or will otherwise protect us from liability for damages in the event of a claim for breach of our obligations. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient for all such claims or damages and additional insurance coverage may not be available in the future on reasonable terms or in amounts sufficient to cover large claims. Successful assertions of one or more large claims against us could have a significant adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our clients’ proprietary rights may be misappropriated by our employees or subcontractors in violation of applicable confidentiality agreements. We require our employees and subcontractors to enter into non-disclosure arrangements to limit access to and distribution of our clients’ intellectual property and other confidential information as well as our own. We can give no assurance that the steps taken by us in this regard will be adequate to enforce our clients’ intellectual property rights. If our clients’ proprietary rights are misappropriated by our employees or our subcontractors or their employees, in violation of any applicable confidentiality agreements or otherwise, our clients may consider us liable for that act and seek damages and compensation from us. We may be subject to third party claims of intellectual property infringement. Although there are currently no material pending or threatened intellectual property claims against us, infringement claims may be asserted against us in the future. Our contracts contain broad indemnity clauses, and under most of our contracts, we are required to provide specific indemnity relating to third party intellectual property rights infringement. In some instances, the amount of these indemnities may be greater than the revenues we receive from the client. If we become liable to third parties for infringing their intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay a substantial damage award and be forced to develop non-infringing technology, obtain a license or cease selling the applications or products that contain the infringing technology. We may be unable to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may also be required to change our methodologies so as not to use the infringed intellectual property, which may not be technically or commercially feasible and may cause us to expend significant resources. Any claims or litigation in this area, irrespective of the outcome, could be time-consuming and costly and/or injure our reputation. As the number of patents, copyrights and other intellectual property rights in our industry increases, we believe that companies in our industry will face more frequent infringement claims. Defending against these claims, even if not meritorious, could be expensive and divert our attention and resources from operating our Company. We have a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, and unauthorized parties may infringe upon or misappropriate our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and design laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property, including our brand identity. However, the laws of India may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the United States. Therefore, our efforts to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate and we may not be able to detect unauthorized use or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Our competitors may independently develop proprietary methodologies similar to ours or duplicate our products or services. Unauthorized parties may infringe upon or misappropriate our services or proprietary information. The misappropriation or duplication of our intellectual property could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, reduce our revenues and increase our expenses. We may need to litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation could be time consuming and costly and the outcome of any such litigation cannot be guaranteed. For more information regarding our intellectual property, see “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview - Intellectual Property.” Risks Related to Investments in Indian Companies and International Operations Generally. We are incorporated in India and a substantial portion of our assets and our employees are located in India. Consequently, our financial performance and the market price of our ADSs will be affected by changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates, Government of India policies, including taxation policies, as well as political, social and economic developments affecting India. 12 Table of Contents Immigration restrictions could limit our ability to expand our operations in the United States. We derive a high proportion of our revenues from clients located in the United States which may be affected materially by such restrictions. Most of our employees are Indian nationals. The ability of our software professionals to work in the United States, Europe and in other countries depends on our ability to obtain necessary visas and work permits. At present, majority of our software professionals in the United States hold H-1B visas, a temporary visa which allows the employee to remain in the United States while he or she remains an employee of the sponsoring firm, and L-1 visas, an intra company transfer visa allowing managers and executives or employees with specialized knowledge to stay in the United States only temporarily. An H-1B visa may be granted to certain categories of persons in several “specialty occupations” including software professionals such as our employees, so long as their compensation meets annually adjusted minimums. Those adjustments may force increases in the salaries we pay to our employees with H-1B visas, resulting in lower profit margins. Although there is currently no limit to new L-1 visas, there is a limit to the aggregate number of new H-1B visas that may be approved by the United States government in any fiscal year. We believe that the demand for H-1B visas will continue to be high. Further, the United States government has increased the level of scrutiny in granting visas. This may lead to limits on the number of L-1 visas granted. The U.S. immigration laws also require us to comply with other legal requirements including those relating to displacement and secondary displacement of U.S. workers and recruiting and hiring of U.S. workers, as a condition to obtaining or maintaining work visas for our software professionals working in the United States. Immigration laws in the United States and in other countries are subject to legislative change, as well as to variations in standards of application and enforcement due to political forces and economic conditions. It is difficult to predict the political and economic events that could affect immigration laws, or the restrictive impact they could have on obtaining or monitoring work visas for our software professionals. Our reliance on work visas for a significant number of software professionals makes us particularly vulnerable to such changes and variations. As a result, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient number of visas for our software professionals or may encounter delays or additional costs in obtaining or maintaining such visas. Wage pressures in India may prevent us from sustaining our competitive advantage and may reduce our profit margins. Wage costs in India have historically been significantly lower than wage costs in the United States and Europe for comparably skilled professionals, which has been one of our competitive strengths. However, wage increases in India may prevent us from sustaining this competitive advantage and may negatively affect our profit margins. Clients may seek to reduce their dependence on India for outsourced IT services or take advantage of the services provided in countries with labor costs similar to or lower than India. Clients who presently outsource a significant proportion of their IT services requirements to vendors in India may, for various reasons, including to diversify geographic risk, seek to reduce their dependence on one country. We expect that future competition will increasingly include firms with operations in other countries, especially those countries with labor costs similar to or lower than India, such as China, the Philippines and countries in Eastern Europe. Since wage costs in our industry in India are increasing, our ability to compete effectively will become increasingly dependent on our reputation, the quality of our services and our expertise in specific industries. Our net income would decrease if the Government of India reduces or withdraws tax benefits and other incentives it currently provides to us or otherwise increases our effective tax rate. Presently, we benefit from the tax holidays given by the Government of India for the export of IT services from specially designated software technology parks and special economic zones in India. As a result of these incentives, which include a 10 year tax holiday from Indian corporate income taxes for the operation of most of our Indian facilities, our operations have been subject to relatively low tax liabilities. The tax benefits available for some of our facilities have expired and certain others will expire upon completion of 10 years from commencement of business of the eligible undertaking. However the tax holiday for the export of IT services will expire on March 31, 2010. In December 2006, we received a demand notice from the Indian Income Tax department for approximately Rs. 630.17 million, including an interest demand of approximately Rs. 186.85 million ($ 12.9 million including an interest demand of approximately $ 3.8 million) for the assessment year 2004-05. The tax demand was mainly on account of disallowance of deduction claimed by us under Section 10A of the Indian Income Tax Act, 1961, as amended, or the Indian Income Tax Act, in respect of profits earned by its various eligible undertakings. Section 10A of the Indian Income Tax Act exempts the profits earned by an undertaking for the export of computer software upon the fulfillment of certain conditions. One of the conditions is that the unit should not have been formed by the splitting up of an existing business. We had expanded our software development business whereas the Indian Income Tax department contends that the business of the new units is comprised of business transferred from existing units by splitting them. In consultation with our tax advisers, we filed an appeal in January 2007 challenging the disallowance. 13 Table of Contents One of the requirements under the Indian Income Tax Rules to proceed with an appeal is to deposit, either immediately or through monthly installments, a sum equivalent to 50% of the amount that is under appeal. Until March 31, 2008, we deposited a sum of Rs. 310.28 million ($7.2 million). Considering the facts and nature of disallowances and based on the advice given by our legal counsel, management considered that the disallowance was not tenable and, therefore was confident of a favorable outcome in appeal proceedings and hence no provision for such income tax demand was considered necessary.. Subsequently, in February 2008, we received an order from the Commissioner of Income Tax (CIT) (Appeals) in favor of the Company by allowing the claim under Section 10A of the Indian Income Tax Act. The Company received the refund of the taxes paid after adjustment of the new demand for the assessment year 2002-03 as explained below. In December 2007, the Company received another demand, for Rs. 261.70 million including an interest demand of approximately Rs. 139.88 million ($5.3 million including an interest demand of approximately $2.9 million) for the assessment year 2002-03. The new demand related to the same issue of disallowance of tax benefits under Section 10A of the Indian Income Tax Act. In the opinion of management, and based on advice received, the demand was considered as not tenable against us and we filed an appeal with the appellate authority. Subsequently, in March 2008, we received an order from the CIT (Appeals) in our favor allowing the claim under Section 10A of the Indian Income Tax Act. Until March 2008 an aggregate amount of Rs. 261.70 million ($6.1 million) along with interest has also been received as refund. The Indian Income tax department has appealed against the CIT (Appeal’s) order in respect of the assessment years 2002-03 and 2004-05 in the Indian Income Tax Appellate Tribunal. In December 2008 we received a demand of approximately Rs 458.66 million for the assessment year 2003-04 including an interest demand of Rs. 258.64 million ($9.4 million including an interest demand of approximately $5.3 million) and another demand in January 2009 of approximately Rs. 1,131.76 million for the assessment year 2005-06 including an interest demand of approximately Rs. 421.97 million ($23.2 million including an interest demand of approximately $8.7 million). These new demands concern the same issue of disallowance of tax benefits under Section 10A of the Indian Income Tax Act. We have filed an appeal and a stay of demand has been granted until June 30, 2009. Additionally, we have deposited with the Indian income tax authorities Rs. 209 million ($4.1 million) as deposit relating to the demands received in December 2008. We consider these demands as not tenable against us and, therefore, no provision for this tax contingency has been established. Further, provisions of the Indian Income Tax Act of India are amended on an annual basis by enactment of the Finance Act. The Finance Act, 2008 has extended the scope of service tax to cover software development and this will not increase our operating expenses, since we recover this from our customers. In addition, we may also be subject to changes in taxation resulting from the actions of applicable income tax authorities in India or from Indian tax laws that may be enacted in the future. For example, we may incur increased tax liability as a result of a determination by applicable income tax authorities that the transfer price applied to transactions involving our subsidiaries and the Company was not appropriate. Any increases in our effective tax rate as a result of the expiration of tax benefits we currently enjoy, changes in applicable tax laws or the actions of applicable income tax or other regulatory authorities could materially reduce our profitability. For more information, see “Item 5.A. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results — Taxes. Any disruption in the supply of power, IT infrastructure and telecommunications lines to our facilities could disrupt our business process or subject us to additional costs. Any disruption in basic infrastructure, including the supply of power, could negatively impact our ability to provide timely or adequate services to our clients. We rely on a number of telecommunications service and other infrastructure providers to maintain communications between our various facilities in India and our clients’ operations in the United States and elsewhere. Telecommunications networks are subject to failures and periods of service disruption which can adversely affect our ability to maintain active voice and data communications among our facilities and with our clients. Such disruptions may cause harm to our clients’ business. We do not maintain business interruption insurance and may not be covered for any claims or damages if the supply of power, IT infrastructure or telecommunications lines is disrupted. This could disrupt our business process or subject us to additional costs. Anti-takeover provisions under Indian law could prevent or deter an entity from acquiring control of us. Indian takeover regulations contain certain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a future takeover or change in control of us. These provisions may discourage a third party from attempting to take control of our Company, even if a change in control would result in the purchase of ADSs at a premium to the market price or would otherwise be beneficial to our ADS holders. See “Item 10. B. Additional Information —Takeover Code.” 14 Table of Contents There are certain differences in shareholder rights and protections between the laws of India and the United States and between governance standards for a U.S. public company and a foreign private issuer such as us. We are incorporated in India and investors should be aware that there are certain differences in shareholder rights and protections under the laws of India and the United States. There are also certain differences in the governance standards for a U.S. company and those applicable to a foreign private issuer such as us. A U.S. investor should consider such differences in shareholder rights and governance. In certain circumstances, our ability to acquire companies organized outside India may require the approval of the Government of India and/or the Reserve Bank of India and we may fail to obtain such approvals in a timely manner or at all. As part of our strategy, we intend to acquire companies, in India or abroad, which have a synergistic fit with our operations. Subject to compliance with certain Indian laws and regulations, including Indian exchange control laws and regulations, we are permitted: · to make overseas direct investments in a joint venture or wholly-owned subsidiary outside India of up to 400% of our net worth as of the date of our last audited balance sheet; · to make investments in an overseas joint venture or wholly-owned subsidiary engaged in a bona fide business activity; and · to make overseas direct investments, without limits on net worth, in any foreign security from the proceeds of an international offering of ADRs or Global Depository Receipts, or GDRs, or from the account balances held in our exchange earner’s foreign currency bank accounts; and. In certain other cases, we are required to obtain the approval of the Reserve Bank of India to acquire shares of a foreign company for cash consideration or through a share swap transactions (subject to certain exceptions for an exchange of ADRs or GDRs). In certain circumstances, we may not be able to meet the Indian regulatory requirements with respect to certain acquisitions of foreign companies and may require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank of India and/or the Government of India to consummate acquisitions of such foreign companies. We may not be able to obtain some or all of these approvals in a timely manner or at all, and thereby may be impeded in our efforts to acquire companies organized outside India. This inability may limit our growth, render us uncompetitive relative to our competitors and adversely affect our business, revenues and profitability. You may have difficulty enforcing any judgment obtained in the United States against us or our directors or executive officers in India. We are incorporated under the laws of India and many of our directors and executive officers reside outside the United States. Furthermore, most of our assets and the assets of our directors and executive officers are located outside the United States. As a result, you may be unable to: · effect service of process upon us or our directors and executive officers; or · enforce judgments obtained in the United States courts against us or such persons in the United States, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. The United States and India do not currently have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters. Incidents such as terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war involving India, the United States, and other countries could adversely affect the financial markets, result in loss of client confidence, and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Incidents such as the terrorist attacks that have occurred in India, the United States, and other countries and other acts of violence or war, including those involving India, the United States or other countries, may adversely affect global equity markets and economic growth. These acts may also result in a loss of business confidence and have other consequences that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Travel advisories, reluctance to travel and increased visa scrutiny for travelers as a result of such attacks may have an adverse impact on our ability to operate effectively. Any of these events could adversely affect client confidence in India as an outsourcing base. Regional conflicts in South Asia could adversely affect the Indian economy, disrupt our operations and cause our business to suffer. South Asia has, from time to time, experienced instances of civil unrest and hostilities among neighboring countries, such as between India and Pakistan and even within the country. There have been military confrontations 15 Table of Contents along the India-Pakistan border from time to time. The potential for hostilities between the two countries is high due to past terrorist incidents in India, and troop mobilizations along the border, and the geopolitical situation in the region. Military activity or terrorist attacks in the future could influence the Indian economy by disrupting communications and making travel more difficult. Political tensions could increase the perception that investments in Indian companies involve a higher degree of risk than companies in other countries such as the United States. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the market for securities of Indian companies, including our equity shares and our ADSs, and on the market for our services. Our performance is linked to the stability of policies and the political situation in India. The role of the Indian central and state governments in the Indian economy and their effect on producers, consumers and regulators has remained significant over the years. Since 1991, successive governments of India have pursued policies of economic liberalization, including significantly relaxing restrictions on the private sector. The present Government of India, which has been recently elected again that concluded in May 2009, had taken initiatives that continue to support the economic liberalization policies pursued by previous governments. We cannot assure you that these liberalization policies will continue in the future .The rate of economic liberalization could change, and specific laws and policies affecting technology companies, foreign investment, currency exchange rates and other matters affecting investment in our securities could change as well. A significant change in India’s economic liberalization and deregulation policies could adversely affect business and economic conditions in India generally, and our business in particular. We are vulnerable to natural disasters that could severely disrupt the normal operation of our business and adversely affect our earnings. India is susceptible to natural disasters, including tsunamis, floods and earthquakes. On December 26, 2004, southeast Asia, including the eastern coast of India, experienced a tsunami that caused significant loss of life and property damage. While our facilities were not damaged, the tsunami struck Chennai and other areas in which we operate. Substantially all of our facilities and IT professionals are located in India including Mumbai, which has also experienced heavy flooding in recent years. If our facilities are damaged by a tsunami, flood, earthquake or other natural disaster, our global delivery capability could be interrupted or delayed significantly. Although we maintain comprehensive natural perils insurance up to policy limits our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses. In addition, disaster management facilities in India may not be adequate to protect against potential losses. As a result, a natural disaster in India could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with new and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements adds uncertainty to our compliance policies and increases our costs of compliance. Laws, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, new SEC regulations, NYSE rules, Securities and Exchange Board of India rules, and Indian stock exchanges’ listing regulations are subject to change and can create uncertainty for companies like ours. New or changed laws, regulations and standards could lack specificity or be subject to varying interpretations. Their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such governance standards. In particular, continuing compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting requires the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources and our external auditors’ independent assessment of the internal controls over financial reporting. We seek to maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, and our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards in this regard have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses. Risks Relating to Our ADSs and our Trading Market Sales and issuances of our equity shares or ADSs may adversely affect the market price of the ADSs and our equity shares. Sales of a substantial number of equity shares, including sales by our insiders, into the public market, whether on the Indian stock exchanges or into the United States by issuances of ADSs, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of the ADSs and our equity shares or our ability to raise capital through an offering of our securities. In the future, we may also sponsor the sale of shares currently held by some of our shareholders, or issue new shares. We can make no prediction as to the timing of any such sales or the effect, if any, that future sales of our equity shares, or the availability of our equity shares for future sale, will have on the market price of our equity shares or ADSs prevailing from time to time. In addition, we have adopted an employee stock option plan as a means to reward and motivate our employees. You may experience dilution of your shareholding to the extent that we make future equity offerings or issue equity shares pursuant to the exercise of stock options under our employee stock option plan. 16 Table of Contents We have controlling shareholders who have the ability to exercise significant control over us, and whose interests may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. Mr. Narendra K. Patni, Mr. Gajendra K. Patni and Mr. Ashok K. Patni, together with their families and entities controlled by them, and General Atlantic Mauritius Limited, or General Atlantic, own 16.16%, 15.87%, 16.35% and 17.89% of our outstanding equity shares, respectively, as of June 12, 2009. Our Articles of Association confer certain rights on our controlling shareholders relating to our governance, including representation on our Board of Directors and an ability to adjourn a shareholder or Board of Directors meeting for lack of quorum if their representative is not present at the first such meeting. In addition, our Articles of Association can only be amended if members holding not less than 75% of our equity shares (and who are entitled to vote) cast votes in favor of such amendments and such votes include the favorable votes of each of the controlling shareholders, so long as the respective groups hold at least 10% of our equity shares and vote on such amendment. Pursuant to the terms of our Articles of Association, Mr. Narendra K. Patni is the permanent Chairman of our Board, with a casting vote in the event of a tie. Pursuant to an employment agreement between our U.S. subsidiary, Patni Americas, Inc., (formerly Patni Computer Systems, Inc.) and Mr. Narendra K Patni, Mr. Narendra K Patni served as the Chief Executive Officer of our U.S. subsidiary Patni Americas, Inc and pursuant to the consultancy agreement between our U.S. subsidiary and us, Mr. Narendra K. Patni was seconded as our Chief Executive Officer. The aforesaid employment agreement with Mr. Narendra K. Patni had an initial term expiring on December 31, 2008 which, now, has been extended until December 31, 2013 unless sooner terminated earlier pursuant to the Employment Agreement amendment dated February 20, 2009. While Mr. Narendra K Patni has ceased to be our Chief Executive Officer since February 20 2009, he continues to be our Chairman. In addition, our Board of Directors had approved the extension of the consultancy agreement to December 31, 2010. Pursuant to the Consultancy Agreement amendment dated February 20, 2009, the consultancy agreement with Patni Americas Inc can be terminated only on or after December 31, 2010 (upon giving one month’s written notice to Patni Americas Inc) and such termination will take effect on the expiration of such period of notice. Mr. Gajendra K. Patni and Mr. Ashok K. Patni, together with their family members, have management control of certain companies, which include PCS Technology Limited, PCS International Limited, PCS Cullinet Private Limited, PCS Finance Private Limited and Ashoka Computer Systems Private Limited. We have not entered into any non-solicitation or non-compete agreements with any of these companies. While these companies currently are not competing with us to a material extent, we cannot assure you that in the future they may not compete with us, may not solicit our employees or otherwise have interests that may not conflict with ours. Each of the four controlling shareholders has the right to appoint one director to our Board of Directors so long as such controlling shareholder holds 5% or more of our equity shares. In addition, Mr. Arun Duggal and Mr. Louis T. van den Boog, two of our directors, formerly served as special advisors to General Atlantic. Accordingly, our controlling shareholders have the ability to exercise significant influence over our management, including over matters requiring shareholder approval or approval by our Board of Directors. This could delay, defer or prevent a change in control, impede a merger, consolidation, take-over or other business combination involving us, or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. Certain of our shareholders also have certain additional rights with respect to SEC registration for resale of our equity shares. See “Item 7.B. Related party transactions—Registration Rights Agreement.” Trading suspensions and closures at the Indian stock exchanges may adversely affect the trading price of ADSs. Our equity shares are listed and traded in India on the Indian stock exchanges. The regulation and monitoring of Indian securities markets and the activities of investors, brokers and other participants differ, in some cases significantly, from those in the United States. Indian stock exchanges have in the past experienced problems, including temporary exchange closures, broker defaults, settlement delays and strikes by brokerage firm employees, which, if continuing or recurring, could affect the market price and liquidity of the securities of Indian companies, including our equity shares and ADSs, in both domestic and international markets. The two Indian stock exchanges on which our equity shares are listed, the Bombay Stock Exchange Limited and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited, also have a specific price band for each security listed. When a price fluctuation exceeds the specific limits of the price band, trading of the security is stopped for that trading session. Such price volatility controls and the specific price bands are decided by each individual exchange and may differ from exchange to exchange. A closure of or trading stoppage on the Indian Stock Exchanges could adversely affect the trading price of the ADSs. 17 Table of Contents Exchange rate fluctuations between the dollar and the rupee will affect the value of the ADSs. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the rupee and the dollar will affect the dollar value of any cash dividends paid in rupees on our equity shares represented by the ADSs. In addition, these fluctuations will affect the dollar equivalent of the rupee price of our equity shares on the Indian Stock Exchanges and, as a result, the prices of our ADSs in the United States, as well as the dollar value of the proceeds a holder would receive upon the sale in India of any equity shares withdrawn from the depositary under the deposit agreement. Holders may not be able to convert rupee proceeds into dollars or any other currency, and there is no guarantee of the rate at which any such conversion will occur, if at all. Indian law imposes certain restrictions that limit a holder’s ability to transfer the shares obtained upon surrender of ADSs and repatriate the proceeds of such transfer, which may cause our ADSs to trade at a premium or a discount to the market price of our equity shares. Under certain circumstances, the Reserve Bank of India must approve the sale of equity shares underlying ADSs by a non-resident of India to a resident of India. The Reserve Bank of India has given general permission to effect sales of existing shares or convertible debentures of an Indian company by a resident to a non-resident, subject to certain conditions, including the price at which the shares may be sold. Additionally, except under certain limited circumstances, if an investor seeks to convert the rupee proceeds from a sale of equity shares in India into foreign currency, approval from the Reserve Bank of India will have to be obtained for each such transaction. Required approval from the Reserve Bank of India or any other government agency may not be obtained on terms favorable to a non-resident investor or at all. An investor in our ADSs may not be able to exercise preemptive rights for additional equity shares and may thereby suffer dilution of its equity interest in us. Under the Indian Companies Act, 1956, or the Indian Companies Act, a company incorporated in India must offer its holders of equity shares preemptive rights to subscribe and pay for a proportionate number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentages prior to the issuance of any new shares, unless such preemptive rights have been waived by holders of three-fourths of the shares voting on the resolution to waive such rights. A holder of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights for equity shares underlying ADSs unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective with respect to such rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to prepare and file such a registration statement and our decision to do so will depend on the costs and potential liabilities associated with any such registration statement, as well as the perceived benefits of enabling the holders of ADSs to exercise their preemptive rights, and any other factors we consider appropriate at the time. We cannot assure you that we would file a registration statement under these circumstances. If we issue any such securities in the future, such securities may be issued to the depositary, which may sell such securities for the benefit of the holders of the ADSs. There can be no assurance as to the value, if any, the depositary would receive upon the sale of such securities. To the extent that a holder of ADSs is unable to exercise preemptive rights granted in respect of the equity shares represented by the ADSs, his proportional interest in us would be reduced. Holders of ADSs may be restricted in their ability to exercise voting rights. At our request, the depositary will mail the holders of ADSs any notice of a shareholder meeting received from us together with information explaining how to instruct the depositary to exercise the voting rights of our shares represented by the ADSs. If the depositary receives voting instructions from the holders in time, relating to matters that have been forwarded to them, it will endeavor to vote the shares represented by the ADSs in accordance with such voting instructions. However, the ability of the depositary to carry out voting instructions may be limited by practical and legal limitations and the terms of the securities on deposit. We cannot assure that the holders will receive voting materials in time to enable them to return voting instructions to the depositary in a timely manner. Shares for which no voting instructions have been received will be voted by our management. There may be other communications, notices or offerings that we only make to holders of our shares, which will not be forwarded to holders of ADSs. Accordingly, the holders of ADSs may not be able to participate in all offerings, transactions or votes that are made available to holders of our shares. An active or liquid trading market for our ADSs is not assured. An active, liquid trading market for our ADSs may not be maintained in the long term. We cannot predict the extent to which an active, liquid public trading market for our ADSs will continue. If there is no longer any active trading market for our ADSs, or if we fail to meet eligibility requirements, we may be required to delist from the NYSE, which could adversely affect the price of our ADSs and, potentially, our equity shares. Although holders of ADSs are entitled to withdraw the equity shares underlying our ADSs from our Depositary at any time, there is no public market for our equity shares in the United States. 18 Table of Contents 