ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect us are described below. Before making an investment decision, 13 Table of Contents you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related To Our Business We Are Subject to Interest Rate Risk Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of our loans and securities which are collateralized by mortgages. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to the our management of interest rate risk. Our Allowance for Loan Losses May Be Insufficient We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses that may be incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and judgment and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Allowance for Loan Losses” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located elsewhere in 14 Table of Contents this report for further discussion related to our process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses. A Downturn in Our Real Estate Markets Could Hurt Our Business A downturn in our real estate markets could hurt our business because many of our loans are secured by real estate. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies and acts of nature. If real estate prices decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans could be reduced. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 79% of the book value of our loan portfolio consisted of loans collateralized by various types of real estate. Substantially all of our real property collateral is located in Colorado. Any such downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are Exposed to Risk of Environmental Liabilities with Respect to Properties to Which We Take Title In the course of our business, we may own or foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our Profitability Depends Significantly on Economic Conditions in the Colorado Front Range Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the counties in which we conduct business. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in the Colorado Front Range, which includes the Denver metropolitan area. The local economic conditions in our market area have a significant impact on our loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, natural disasters, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control would affect these local economic conditions and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In view of the concentration of our operations and the collateral securing our loan portfolio in Colorado’s Front Range, we may be particularly susceptible to the adverse effects of any of these consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We Operate in a Highly Competitive Industry and Market Area We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional, and community banks within the various markets we serve. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, 15 Table of Contents technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic funds transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: • The ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets. • The ability to expand our market position. • The scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands. • The rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors. • Customer satisfaction with our level of service. • Industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We Are Subject to Extensive Government Regulation and Supervision We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination. Any change in the laws or regulations applicable to us, or in banking regulators’ supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether by the Colorado Division of Banking, the FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board, other state or federal regulators, the U.S. Congress or the Colorado legislature could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our banks are subject to regulations promulgated by the Colorado Division of Banking, as their chartering authority, and by the FDIC as the insurer of their deposits up to certain limits. Our banks also belong to the Federal Home Loan Bank System and, as members of such system, they are subject to certain limited regulations promulgated by the Federal Home Loan Bank of Topeka. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board regulates and oversees Centennial Bank Holdings, Inc. as a bank holding company, and Centennial Bank of the West and Guaranty Bank as members of the Federal Reserve System, and the FDIC oversees Collegiate Peaks. This regulation and supervision limits the activities in which we may engage. The purpose of regulation and supervision is primarily to protect the FDIC’s insurance fund and our depositors and borrowers, rather than our stockholders. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement powers. They may, among other things, impose restrictions on the operation of a banking institution, the classification of assets by such institution and such institution’s allowance for loan losses. Regulatory and law enforcement authorities also have wide discretion and extensive enforcement powers under various consumer protection and civil rights laws, including the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and Colorado’s deceptive acts and practices law. These laws also permit private individual and class action lawsuits and provide for the recovery of attorneys fees in certain instances. No assurance can be given that the foregoing regulations and supervision will not change so as to affect us adversely. Our Controls and Procedures May Fail or Be Circumvented Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is 16 Table of Contents based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We Face Risks Associated With Our Existing and Future Acquisitions We made two acquisitions in 2004 and another two acquisitions in 2005. We expect to continue to pursue acquisition opportunities. Risks commonly encountered in existing and future acquisitions include, among other things: • The difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies and branches. • The potential disruption of our ongoing business. • The potential diversion of our management’s time and attention. • The inability of our management to maximize our financial and strategic position by the successful implementation of uniform product offerings and the incorporation of uniform technology into our product offerings and control systems. • The inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies and the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in management. • The potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired company. • Exposure to potential asset quality issues of the acquired company. • The possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired company. • Difficulty in estimating the value of the acquired company. • Potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the acquired company. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with acquisitions. Our integration of operations of banks or branches that we acquire may not be successfully accomplished and may take a significant amount of time. Our inability to improve the operating performance of acquired banks and branches or to integrate successfully their operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We expect to hire additional employees and retain consultants to assist with integrating our operations, and we cannot assure you that those individuals or firms will perform as expected or be successful in addressing these issues. Our Growth and Expansion May Strain Our Ability to Manage Our Operations and Our Financial Resources Continued growth may present operating and other problems that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth may place a strain on our administrative, operational, personnel and financial resources and increase demands on our systems and controls. We anticipate that our business growth may require continued enhancements to and expansion of our operating and financial systems and controls and may strain or significantly challenge them. Our inability to continue to upgrade or maintain effective operating and financial control systems and to recruit and hire necessary personnel or to successfully integrate new personnel into our operations could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we cannot assure you that our existing operating and financial control systems and infrastructure will be adequate to maintain and effectively monitor future growth. We Rely on Dividends From Our Subsidiaries for Most of Our Revenue Because we are a holding company with no significant assets other than our banks, we currently depend upon dividends from our banks for a substantial portion of our revenues. Our ability to pay dividends will 17 Table of Contents therefore continue to depend in large part upon our receipt of dividends or other capital distributions from our banks. Our ability to pay dividends is subject to the restrictions of the Delaware General Corporation Law. The ability of the banks to pay dividends or make other capital distributions to us is also subject to the regulatory authority of the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC, and the Colorado Division of Banking, or the CDB, as further described in the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1 of this report. From time to time, we may become a party to financing agreements or other contractual arrangements that have the effect of limiting or prohibiting us or our banks from declaring or paying dividends. Our holding company expenses and obligations with respect to our line of credit with U.S. Bank National Association as well as our trust preferred securities and corresponding subordinated debt securities issued by us may limit or impair our ability to declare or pay dividends. See “Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities—Dividends” for more information on these restrictions. We are Dependent on Key Personnel and the Loss of One or More of Those Key Personnel Could Harm Our Business Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of and experience in the Colorado community banking industry. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, administrative, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of our management and personnel. In particular, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the abilities of our senior executive management, including John M. Eggemeyer, David C. Boyles, Suzanne R. Brennan and Paul W. Taylor. We believe this management team, comprised of individuals who have worked in the banking industry for many years, is integral to implementing our business plan. The loss of the services of any one of them could harm our business. Our Information Systems May Experience an Interruption or Breach in Security We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We Continually Encounter Technological Change The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change 18 Table of Contents affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. We Are Subject to Claims and Litigation Pertaining to Fiduciary Responsibility From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to our performance of our fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to our performance of our fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for our products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Severe Weather, Natural Disasters, Acts of War or Terrorism and Other External Events Could Significantly Impact Our Business Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We Have Incurred and Will Incur Increased Costs and Administrative Responsibilities as a Result of Becoming a Public Company We became a publicly traded company in October 2005. As a public company, we are required to comply with various laws, regulations and requirements, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and the Nasdaq National Market. These requirements impose substantial responsibilities upon public companies, such as changes in corporate governance practices, disclosure and reporting requirements, and requirements relating to the internal control over financial reporting. Ongoing compliance has caused and will cause us to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses, and occupies a substantial amount of time of our board of directors and management. These factors could negatively affect our ability to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. We Will be Exposed to Risks Relating to the Evaluations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 We are currently in the process of evaluating our internal controls systems to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to audit, our internal control over financial reporting. We will be performing the system and process evaluations and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These systems are necessary to produce accurate financial reports and prevent fraudulent financial activity. We will be required to comply with Section 404 beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2006. However, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. Furthermore, upon completion of this process, we may identify control deficiencies of varying degrees of severity under applicable SEC and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board rules and regulations that remain unremediated. As a public company, we will be required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a “material weakness” or changes in internal controls, which could or are reasonably likely to, materially affect internal controls over financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies that 19 Table of Contents results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. If we fail to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or the Nasdaq National Market. In addition, if any material weakness or deficiency is identified or is not remedied, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy of our reported financial information, and our stock price could be significantly adversely affected as a result. Risks Associated With Our Common Stock Our Stock Price Can Be Volatile Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: • Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations. • Recommendations by securities analysts. • Operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us. • News reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry. • Perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and/or our competitors. • New technology used, or services offered, by competitors. • Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors. • Failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions. • Changes in government regulations. • Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. The Trading Volume in Our Common Stock is Less Than That of Other Larger Financial Services Companies Although the Company’s common stock is listed for trading on the Nasdaq National Market or Nasdaq, the trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall. Concentrated Ownership of our Common Stock Creates a Risk of Sudden Changes in our Share Price Based on the public filings which beneficial owners of more than five (5) percent of the outstanding shares of our common stock are required to make with the SEC, three institutional investors owned or controlled approximately 26.8% of our common stock. Investors who purchase our common stock may be subject to certain risks due to the concentrated ownership of our common stock. The sale by any of our large stockholders of a significant portion of that stockholder’s holdings could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 20 Table of Contents An Investment in Our Common Stock is Not an Insured Deposit Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment. Federal Law May Limit the Ability of Another Party to Acquire Us, Which Could Cause Our Stock Price to Decline The Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, together with federal regulations, require that, depending on the particular circumstances, either Federal Reserve Board approval must be obtained or notice must be furnished to the Federal Reserve Board and not disapproved prior to any person or entity acquiring “control” of a bank. These provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to stockholders and could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Risks Associated With Our Industry The Earnings of Financial Services Companies are Significantly Affected by General Business and Economic Conditions Our operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which we operate, all of which are beyond our control. A deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and non-performing assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for our products and services, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Financial Services Companies Depend on the Accuracy and Completeness of Information About Customers and Counterparties In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Consumers May Decide Not to Use Banks to Complete Their Financial Transactions Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks through alternative methods. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 21 Table of Contents 