ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere, and the other information contained, in this Report and in our other filings with the SEC, including our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs with material adverse effects on us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock will likely decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The current global economic environment coupled with cyclical economic trends in apparel retailing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The apparel industry historically has been subject to substantial cyclicality. As the economic conditions in the global economy have deteriorated during the past two years, discretionary consumer spending has declined. The current global economic slowdown may result in lower than expected orders of our products and put negative pressure on our gross margins due to the promotional environment. Reduced sales by our wholesale customers may lead to lower retail inventory levels, reduced orders from suppliers like Volcom, or order cancelations. Reduced sales by some of our wholesale customers, along with the possibility of their reduced access to, or inability to access, the credit markets, may result in various retailers experiencing significant financial difficulties. Financial difficulties of customers could result in reduced sales to those customers or could result in store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. Higher credit risk relating to receivables from customers experiencing financial difficulty may result. Many of our retail customers, including Pacific Sunwear, have reported negative same store sales growth comparisons and difficult holiday seasons. The economic downturn in the United States, European and broader global economy or continued uncertainties regarding future economic prospects could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents One retail customer represents a material amount of our revenues, and the loss of this retail customer or reduced purchases from this retail customer may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Pacific Sunwear accounted for approximately 11% of our product revenues in 2009 and approximately 16% in 2008. We do not have a long-term contract with Pacific Sunwear, and all of its purchases from us have historically been on a purchase order basis. Sales to Pacific Sunwear decreased 42%, or $22.0 million, for 2009 compared to 2008. We currently expect a decrease in revenue from Pacific Sunwear in the first quarter of 2010 compared to first quarter of 2009. We recognize that any customer concentration creates risks and we are, therefore, assessing strategies to lessen our concentration with Pacific Sunwear. We cannot predict whether such strategies will reduce, in whole or in part, our sales concentration with Pacific Sunwear in the near or long term. Because Pacific Sunwear has represented such a significant amount of our product revenues, our results of operations are likely to be adversely affected by any Pacific Sunwear decision to decrease its rate of purchases of our products. A continuing decrease in its purchases of our products, a cancellation of orders of our products or a change in the timing of its orders will have an adverse affect on our operating results. If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of Electric or our other acquisitions, including our Japanese and UK territories, our business and earnings may be negatively affected. We occasionally consider and, as we believe appropriate, make acquisitions that we believe are complementary to our business. Acquisitions involve significant integration efforts. Successful integration of an acquired company will depend primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems, procedures, properties and personnel. Acquisitions also pose other risks commonly associated with similar transactions, including unanticipated liabilities, unexpected costs and the diversion of management’s attention to the integration. We cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate an acquired company’s operations without encountering difficulties including, but not limited to, the loss of key employees, the disruption of its respective ongoing businesses or possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. If we have difficulties integrating an acquired company, we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect to result from the acquisition, and this may hurt our business and earnings. In addition, we may experience greater than expected costs or difficulties relating to the integration of a business and may not realize expected benefits from the acquisition within the expected time frame, if at all. As a result of our acquisition of Electric, we face greater challenges in managing an additional brand and related products. While we believe that we have significant experience in managing our clothing, accessories and related products with the Volcom brand name and their respective channels of distribution, with our acquisition of Electric, we have further penetrated the action sports industry and have added a second brand and additional product categories. If we are unable to effectively manage our multiple product lines, our profitability and cash flow may be reduced and our brand image and reputation could be harmed. We may be adversely affected by the financial condition of our retailers. Some of our retailers have experienced financial difficulties as a result of the recent economic environment and the related decline in discretionary consumer spending. A retailer experiencing such difficulties will generally not purchase and sell as many of our products as it would under normal circumstances and may cancel orders. We extend credit to our retailers based on our assessment of the retailer’s financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. A retailer experiencing financial difficulties generally increases our exposure to the risk of uncollectible receivables. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and reserves, we cannot assure you that this will continue. In addition, product sales are dependent in part on retailers continuing investments in high quality merchandising and in creating appealing store environments which attract consumers. Retailers who experience financial difficulties may reduce, delay, or cease making such investments, which may result in lower sales of our products. Such financial difficulties on the part of our retailers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents Our international operations involve inherent risks which could result in harm to our business. We currently source the majority of our products from third-party manufacturers located outside of the United States, primarily in China and Mexico, and a considerable portion of our revenues are derived from product sales outside of the United States. Accordingly, we are subject to the risks generally associated with global trade and doing business abroad, which include foreign laws and regulations, varying consumer preferences across geographic regions, political unrest, disruptions or delays in cross-border shipments and changes in economic conditions in countries in which we manufacture or sell products. In addition, disease outbreaks, terrorist acts and military conflict have increased the risks of doing business abroad. These factors, among others, could affect our ability to manufacture products or procure materials, our ability to import products, our ability to sell products in international markets, and our cost of doing business. If any of these or other factors make the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs or quotas that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into the United States and other countries. Any country in which our products are produced or sold may eliminate, adjust or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs, safeguard measures, anti-dumping duties, cargo restrictions to prevent terrorism, restrictions on the transfer of currency, or other charges or restrictions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to comply with federal or state consumer product laws, it could materially affect our gross margin and financial performance. With the passage of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 and similar state laws, such as California’s Proposition 65, there are new requirements mandated for the textiles and apparel industries. These requirements relate to all metal and painted trim items and certain other raw materials used in children’s apparel, as well as flammability standards in certain types of textiles. The Consumer Product Safety Commission, or CPSC, will require certification and testing for lead in paint and metal trims, pointed or sharp edge items, Phthalates, and fabric flammability to meet the CPSC’s limits. We will continue to monitor the situation and intend to abide by all rules and changes made by the CPSC and similar state laws. This could have a negative impact on the cost of our goods and poses a potential risk if we do not adhere to these requirements. Our balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. A decline in the estimated fair value of an intangible asset or of a reporting unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as an operating expense. Under current accounting standards, we estimate the fair value of acquired assets, including intangible assets, and assumed liabilities arising from a business acquisition. The excess, if any, of the cost of the acquired business over the fair value of net tangible assets acquired is allocated to intangible assets and goodwill. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately $6.8 million of non-amortizing trademark and other non-amortizing intangible assets and $1.3 million of goodwill on our balance sheet. These assets are not required to be amortized under current accounting rules. In addition, we had approximately $3.0 million of intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, that are being amortized under current accounting rules. The combined amounts represent 4% of our total assets and 5% of total stockholders’ equity. Goodwill and non-amortizing intangible assets must be tested for impairment annually or in the event of an impairment indicator. We evaluate the recoverability of goodwill based on a two-step impairment test. The first step compares the fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, then the second step of the impairment test is performed to measure the amount of any impairment loss. Fair value is determined based on estimated future cash flows, discounted at a rate that approximates our cost of capital. Intangible assets that are being amortized must be tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value might not be recoverable. 17 Table of Contents The fair value of a reporting unit could decline if forecasted revenues or cash flows were to be lower in the future due to effects of the global recession or other causes. If the carrying value of intangible assets or of goodwill were to exceed its fair value, the asset would be written down to its fair value, with the impairment loss recognized as a noncash charge. In 2009, we had impairment charges of $0.1 million associated with the intangible assets related to Volcom Europe, Electric and Laguna Surf & Sport. In 2008, we had impairment charges of $16.2 million associated with the goodwill and intangible assets related to Electric and Laguna Surf & Sport. In 2007, we had impairment charges of $0.2 million associated with the goodwill related to Welcom Distribution SARL. A significant reduction in the estimated future cash flows could result in additional impairment losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we are required to establish new manufacturing relationships due to the termination of current key manufacturing relationships with large contractors such as Ningbo Jehson Textiles and Dragon Crowd, we would likely experience increased costs, disruptions in the manufacture and shipment of our products and a loss of revenue. Our manufacturers could cease to provide products to us with little or no notice. We also understand that some factories in China, where we produced approximately 63% of our goods in 2009, are closing due to rising costs and an inability to operate at a profit. If factories where we produce goods were to close or stop producing goods for us, it could result in delayed deliveries to our retailers, could adversely impact our revenues in a given season and could require the establishment of new manufacturing relationships. The establishment of new manufacturing relationships involves numerous uncertainties, such as whether the new manufacturers will perform to our expectations and produce quality products in a timely, cost-efficient manner on a consistent basis, either of which could make it difficult for us to meet our retailers’ orders on satisfactory commercial terms. Furthermore, purchases from two contractors, Dragon Crowd and Ningbo Jehson Textiles, totaled approximately 17% and 16%, respectively, of our product costs in 2009, and approximately 18% and 14%, respectively, of our product costs in 2008. The loss of either of these manufacturers would likely require us to establish new manufacturing relationships, which would likely cause increased costs, disruptions in the manufacture and shipment of our products and a corresponding loss of revenues. If we are unable to continue to develop innovative and stylish products, demand for our products may decrease and our brand image may be harmed. The boardsports apparel industry is subject to constantly and rapidly changing consumer preferences based on fashion trends and performance features. Our success depends largely on our ability to anticipate, gauge and respond to these changing consumer demands and fashion trends in a timely manner while preserving the relevancy and authenticity of our brand. In addition, we generally make decisions regarding product designs several months in advance of the time when consumer acceptance can be measured. Our success is largely dependent upon our ability to continue to develop innovative and stylish products. As is typical with new products, market acceptance of new designs and products we may introduce is subject to uncertainty. We cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful. The failure of new product designs or new product lines to gain market acceptance could adversely affect our business and our brand image. Achieving market acceptance for new products may also require substantial marketing efforts and expenditures to expand consumer demand. These requirements could strain our management, financial and operational resources. If we do not continue to develop stylish and innovative products that provide better design and performance attributes than the products of our competitors and that are accepted by consumers, we may lose consumer loyalty, which could result in a decline in our revenues and market share. Consolidation amongst our retail customers or changes in the mix of our retailers could impact our gross margin and brand image, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We sell our products through a mix of retailers, including specialty boardsports retailers and several retail chains. Consolidation amongst our retail customers or changes in the mix of our retailers, including the growth of 18 Table of Contents online retailers, could adversely affect our gross margin and could negatively affect both our brand image and our reputation with our consumers. A negative change in our gross margin or our brand image and acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business could be harmed if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels. We have traditionally received a substantial portion of our customer orders prior to placement of our initial manufacturing orders. However, we also maintain an inventory of selected core products that we anticipate will be in high demand, such as t-shirts. We may be unable to sell the products we have ordered in advance from manufacturers or that we have in our inventory. The current economic environment has made accurate projecting of inventory levels increasingly challenging. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, or the sale of excess inventory at discounted or close-out prices, all of which could adversely affect our gross margins. These events could significantly harm our operating results and impair our brand image. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages might result in unfilled orders, negatively impact retailer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost revenues, any of which could harm our business. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could harm our results of operations. We are exposed to gains and losses resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relating to certain sales, licensing revenues, and product purchases of our international subsidiaries that are denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. We are also exposed to foreign currency gains and losses resulting from domestic transactions that are not denominated in U.S. dollars (primarily sales of goods to Canada, collection of receivables denominated in Canadian dollars and purchases of sunglasses in Euro). As part of our overall strategy to manage the level of exposure to the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, we entered into forward exchange contracts to hedge a portion of our European operations U.S. dollar denominated inventory purchases. If we are unsuccessful in using various foreign currency exchange contracts our profits and cash flows could be significantly reduced. In some cases, as part of our risk management strategies, we may choose not to hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate changes. If we misjudge these risks, there could be a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. Furthermore, we are exposed to gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have on the reported results in our consolidated financial statements due to the translation of the statements of operations and balance sheets of our international subsidiaries into U.S. dollars. We have not used foreign currency exchange contracts to hedge the profit and loss effects of this translation effect. We translate our revenues and expenses at average exchange rates during the period. As a result, the reported revenues and expenses of our international subsidiaries would decrease if the U.S. dollar increased in value in relation to other currencies, including the Euro, Swiss Franc, British pound or Japanese yen. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our retailers, and the loss of orders for our products from our retailers may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We do not maintain long-term contracts with any of our retailers, and retailers generally purchase products from us on a purchase order basis. As a result, our retailers generally may, with little or no notice or penalty, decide to cease ordering and selling our products, or could materially reduce their orders in any period. If certain retailers, individually or in the aggregate, choose to no longer sell our products, it may be difficult for us to change our distribution to other retailers in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any inability to receive timely deliveries from our manufacturers could harm our business. We face the risk that the manufacturers with whom we contract to produce our products may not produce and deliver our products on a timely basis or at all. Our products are generally produced by independent, foreign 19 Table of Contents manufacturers. We cannot be certain that we will not experience operational difficulties with our manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with product specifications, insufficient quality control, failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. The failure of any manufacturer to perform to our expectations could result in supply shortages or untimely deliveries of certain products, either of which could harm our business. The purchasing decisions of consumers are highly subjective and can be influenced by many factors, such as brand image, marketing programs and product design. Several of our competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages, including greater brand recognition, longer operating histories, more comprehensive product lines and greater financial resources for competitive activities, such as sales and marketing and strategic acquisitions. The number of our direct competitors and the intensity of competition may increase as we expand into other product lines or as other companies expand into our product lines. Our competitors may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions or prevent us from taking advantage of such combinations or alliances. Our competitors also may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, standards or consumer preferences, which could result in a decline in our revenues and market share. The market price of our common stock is highly volatile and may result in investors selling shares of our common stock at a loss. The trading price of our common stock is highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • conditions or trends in the fashion and boardsports industries; and • changes in the market valuations of similar companies. In addition, the stock market in general and the NASDAQ in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of listed companies. Industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources and could further a decline in the market price of our common stock. Stock price volatility may result in investors selling shares of our common stock at a loss. If our marketing efforts do not effectively maintain and expand our brand name recognition, we may not be able to achieve our growth strategy. We believe that broader recognition and favorable perception of our brand by consumers in our target market is essential to our future success. To increase brand recognition, we believe we must continue to devote significant amounts of time and resources to advertising and promotions. These expenditures, however, may not result in an increase in favorable recognition of our brand or a sufficient increase in revenues to cover such advertising and promotional expenses. In addition, even if our brand recognition increases, our consumer base and our revenues may not increase, and may in fact decline, either of which could harm our business. If we are unable to maintain and expand our endorsements by professional athletes, our ability to market and sell our products may be harmed. A key element of our marketing strategy has been to obtain endorsements from prominent boardsports athletes, which contributes to our authenticity and brand image. We believe that this strategy has been an 20 Table of Contents effective means of gaining brand exposure worldwide and creating broad appeal for our products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our existing relationships with these individuals in the future or that we will be able to attract new athletes to endorse our products. Larger companies with greater access to capital for athlete sponsorship may in the future increase the cost of sponsorship for these athletes to levels we may choose not to match. If this were to occur, our sponsored athletes may terminate their relationships with us and endorse the products of our competitors and we may be unable to obtain endorsements from other comparable athletes. We also are subject to risks related to the selection of athletes to endorse our products. We may select athletes who are unable to perform at expected levels or who are not sufficiently marketable. In addition, negative publicity concerning any of our athletes could harm our brand and adversely impact our business. If we are unable in the future to secure prominent athletes and arrange athlete endorsements of our products on terms we deem to be reasonable, we may be required to modify our marketing platform and to rely more heavily on other forms of marketing and promotion, which may not prove to be as effective. If we fail to secure or protect our intellectual property rights, counterfeiters may be able to copy and sell imitations of our products and competitors may be able to use our designs, each of which could harm our reputation, reduce our revenues and increase our costs. We rely on intellectual property laws to protect our proprietary rights with respect to our trademarks and pending patents. We are susceptible to injury from the counterfeiting of our products, which may harm our reputation for producing high-quality products or force us to incur additional expense in enforcing our rights. It is difficult and expensive to detect and prevent counterfeiting. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, counterfeiters may continue to violate our intellectual property rights by using our trademarks and imitating our products, which could potentially harm our brand, reputation and financial condition. Since our products are sold internationally, we are also dependent on the laws of foreign countries to protect our intellectual property. These laws may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent or in the same manner as the laws of the United States. We cannot be certain that our efforts to protect our intellectual property will be successful or that the costs associated with protecting our rights abroad will not negatively impact our results of operations. We may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights both inside and outside of the United States. Infringement claims and lawsuits likely would be expensive to resolve and would require substantial management time and resources. Any adverse determination in litigation could subject us to the loss of our rights to a particular trademark, which could prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using certain aspects of our products or could subject us to substantial liability, any of which would harm our results of operations. Aside from infringement claims against us, if we fail to secure or protect our intellectual property rights, our competitors may be able to use our designs. If we are unable to successfully protect our intellectual property rights or resolve any conflicts, our results of operations may be harmed. Our current executive officers and management personnel are critical to our success, and the loss of these individuals could harm our business, brand and image. We are heavily dependent on our current executive officers and management. The loss of any executive officers or management personnel, or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and harm our ability to sell, our products and damage our brand image. We believe that our future success is highly dependent on the contributions, talents and leadership of Richard Woolcott, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and co-founder. While our other key executive officers have substantial experience and have made significant contributions to our business, Richard remains a driving force behind our brand image and philosophy. We have not entered into an employment agreement with Richard and we cannot be certain that he will stay with us. Richard’s services would be very difficult to replace. We do not carry key man insurance and do not expect to carry such insurance in the future. We may not be able to retain our current executive officers and management personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Our ability to attract and retain qualified design and sales and marketing personnel is critical to our success, and any inability to attract and retain such personnel could harm our business. Our future success may also depend on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified design and sales and marketing personnel. We face competition for these individuals worldwide, and there is a significant concentration of boardsports apparel and action sports companies based in and around our headquarters in Orange County, California. We may not be able to attract or retain these employees, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Any shortage of raw materials could impair our ability to ship orders of our products in a cost-efficient manner or could cause us to miss the delivery requirements of our customers, which could harm our business. The capacity of our manufacturers to manufacture our products is dependent, in part, upon the availability of raw materials. Our manufacturers may experience shortages of raw materials, which could result in delays in deliveries of our products by our manufacturers or in increased costs to us. Any shortage of raw materials or inability to control costs associated with manufacturing could increase the costs for our products or impair our ability to ship orders of our products in a cost-efficient manner and could cause us to miss the delivery requirements of our customers. As a result, we could experience cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in our prices and margins, any of which could harm our financial performance and results of operations. Our business could suffer if any of our or our licensees’ key manufacturers fails to use acceptable labor practices. It is difficult to monitor and control the labor practices of our independent manufacturers. The violation of labor or other laws by an independent manufacturer utilized by us or a licensee of ours, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer’s or licensing partner’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States, could damage our reputation or interrupt, or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or our licensees if such manufacturer is ordered to cease its manufacturing operations due to violations of laws or if such manufacturer’s operations are adversely affected by such failure to use acceptable labor practices. If this were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to compete effectively, which could cause our revenues and market share to decline. The boardsports apparel industry, and the apparel industry in general, is highly competitive. We compete with numerous domestic and foreign designers, distributors, marketers and manufacturers of apparel, accessories and other related products, some of which are significantly larger and have greater resources than we do. We believe that in order to compete effectively, we must continue to maintain our brand image and reputation, be flexible and innovative in responding to rapidly changing market demands and consumer preferences, and offer consumers a wide variety of high-quality apparel at premium prices. We compete primarily on the basis of brand image, style, performance and quality. Our revenues and operating income fluctuate on a seasonal basis and decreases in sales or margins during our peak seasons could have a disproportionate effect on our overall financial condition and results of operations. Historically, our operating results have been subject to seasonal trends when measured on a quarterly basis. In the past, we have experienced greater revenues in the second half of the year than those in the first half due to a concentration of shopping around the fall and holiday seasons, and pricing differences between our products sold during the first and second half of the year, as products we sell in the fall and holiday seasons generally have higher prices per unit than products we sell in the spring and summer seasons. We typically sell more of our 22 Table of Contents summer products (boardshorts, t-shirts and sunglasses) in the first half of the year and a majority of our winter products (pants, long sleeve shirts, sweaters, fleece, jackets, outerwear and goggles) in the second half of the year. We anticipate that this seasonal impact on our revenues is likely to continue. Additionally, our business in Europe is extremely seasonal with revenues concentrated primarily in the first and third quarters, shipment of low margin samples concentrated in the second and fourth quarters, and a relatively steady pace of selling, general and administrative expenses throughout the year. Because a substantial portion of our operating income is derived from our third and fourth quarter revenues, a shortfall in expected third and fourth quarter revenues would cause our annual operating results to suffer significantly. We face business, political, operational, financial and economic risks because a portion of our revenues are from international customers, substantially all of our products are sourced overseas and our licensees operate outside of the United States. We and our international licensees are subject to risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our and our licensees’ control, including: • difficulties obtaining domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses, and compliance with foreign laws, which could halt, interrupt or delay our operations if we cannot obtain such approvals, permits and licenses; • difficulties encountered by our international licensees or us in staffing and managing foreign operations or international sales; • transportation delays and difficulties of managing international distribution channels; • longer payment cycles for, and greater difficulty collecting, accounts receivable and royalty payments; • trade restrictions, higher tariffs, currency fluctuations or the imposition of additional regulations relating to import or export of our products, especially in China, where a large portion of our products are manufactured, which could force us to seek alternate manufacturing sources or increase our expenses; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, royalties and withholding taxes that restrict the repatriation of earnings and effects on our effective income tax rate due to profits generated or lost in foreign countries; • political and economic instability, including weakening financial institutions, regional or global recessions, wars, terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; and • natural disasters. Any of these factors could reduce our revenues, decrease our gross margins or increase our expenses and could materially adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. To the extent that we establish our own operations in international territories where we have previously utilized a licensee, such as in Europe, we will increasingly become subject to risks associated with operating outside of the United States. If the ownership of our common stock continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent you and other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and may result in conflicts of interest that could cause our stock price to decline. As of December 31, 2009, our executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially own or control approximately 21.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, of which René Woolcott and Richard Woolcott own approximately 6.2% and 12.9%, respectively, of the 24,374,362 outstanding shares. Accordingly, our current executive officers, directors and their affiliates, acting as a group, will have substantial control over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, 23 Table of Contents consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transactions. These stockholders may also delay or prevent a change of control of us, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 