Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our units involves certain risks. If any of these risks were to occur, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our units could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Among the key risk factors that may have a direct impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition are: Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Currently, our operating cash flow is derived primarily from cash distributions from Enterprise Products Partners. Currently, our operating cash flow is primarily dependent upon Enterprise Products Partners making distributions to its partners. The amount of cash that Enterprise Products Partners can distribute to its partners, including us, each quarter principally depends upon the amount of cash it generates from its operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things, the: • amount of hydrocarbons transported in its gathering and transmission pipelines; • throughput volumes in its processing and treating operations; • fees it charges and the margins it realizes for its services; • price of natural gas; • relationships among crude oil, natural gas and NGL prices; • fluctuations in its working capital needs; • level of its operating costs, including reimbursements to its general partner; and • prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the actual amount of cash Enterprise Products Partners will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including: • the level of sustaining capital expenditures it makes; • the cost of any capital projects and acquisitions; • its debt service requirements and restrictions contained in its obligations for borrowed money; and • the amount of cash reserves established by Enterprise Products GP for the proper conduct of Enterprise Products Partners’ business. Because of these factors, Enterprise Products Partners may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to continue paying distributions at its current level of $0.4375 per unit. Furthermore, the amount of cash that Enterprise Products Partners has available for distribution depends primarily upon its cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items such as depreciation, amortization and provisions for asset impairments. As a result, Enterprise Products Partners may be able to make cash distributions during periods when it records losses and may not be able to make cash distributions during periods when it records net income. Please read “—Risks Related to Enterprise Products Partners’ Business” included 16 within this Item 1A for a discussion of further risks affecting Enterprise Products Partners’ ability to generate distributable cash flow. In the future, we may not have sufficient cash to pay distributions at our current distribution level or to increase distributions. Because our primary source of operating cash flow currently consists of cash distributions from Enterprise Products Partners, the amount of distributions we are able to make to our unitholders may fluctuate based on the level of distributions Enterprise Products Partners makes to its partners. We cannot assure you that Enterprise Products Partners will continue to make quarterly distributions at its current level of $0.4375 per unit or increase its quarterly distributions in the future. In addition, while we would expect to increase or decrease distributions to our unitholders if Enterprise Products Partners increases or decreases distributions to us, the timing and amount of such changes in distributions, if any, will not necessarily be comparable to the timing and amount of any changes in distributions made by Enterprise Products Partners to us. Factors such as capital contributions, debt service requirements, general, administrative and other expenses, reserves for future distributions and other cash reserves established by the board of directors of EPE Holdings may affect the distributions we make to our unitholders. Prior to making any distributions to our unitholders, we will reimburse EPE Holdings and its affiliates for all direct and indirect expenses incurred by them on our behalf. EPE Holdings has the sole discretion to determine the amount of these reimbursed expenses. The reimbursement of these expenses, in addition to the other factors listed above, could adversely affect the level of distributions we make to our unitholders. We cannot guarantee that in the future we will be able to pay distributions or that any distributions we do make will be at or above our current quarterly distribution of $0.28 per unit. The actual amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders will depend on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control or the control of EPE Holdings. Restrictions in our credit facility could limit our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our credit facility contains covenants limiting our ability to take certain actions. This credit facility also contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. We are prohibited from making any distribution to our unitholders if such distribution would cause an event of default or otherwise violate a covenant under this credit facility. For more information about our credit facility, please read Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8 of this annual report. Our unitholders do not elect our general partner or vote on our general partner’s officers or directors. Affiliates of our general partner currently own a sufficient number of units to block any attempt to remove EPE Holdings. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Our unitholders do not have the ability to elect our general partner or the officers or directors of our general partner. Dan L. Duncan, through his control of Dan Duncan LLC, the sole member of EPE Holdings, controls our general partner and the election of all of the officers and directors of our general partner. Furthermore, if our unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner or the officers or directors of our general partner. Our general partner may not be removed except upon the vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our outstanding units. Because affiliates of EPE Holdings own more than one-third of our outstanding units, EPE Holdings currently cannot be removed without the consent of such affiliates. As a result, the price at which our units will trade may be lower because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. 17 We may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests without the consent of our unitholders, which will dilute your ownership interest in us and may increase the risk that we will not have sufficient available cash to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. Our partnership agreement provides that we may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests without the consent of our unitholders. Such units may be issued on the terms and conditions established in the sole discretion of our general partner. Any issuance of additional units would result in a corresponding decrease in the proportionate ownership interest in us represented by, and could adversely affect market price of, units outstanding prior to such issuance. The payment of distributions on these additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our current quarterly distribution. The market price of our units could be adversely affected by sales of substantial amounts of our units in the public markets, including sales by our existing unitholders. Sales by any of our existing unitholders of a substantial number of our units in the public markets, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our units or could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. We do not know whether any such sale would be made in the public market or in a private placement, nor do we know what impact such potential or actual sales would have on our unit price in the future. Risks arising in connection with the execution of our business strategy may adversely affect our ability to make or increase distributions and/or the market price of our units. In addition to seeking to maximize distributions from Enterprise Products Partners, a principal focus of our business strategy includes acquiring general partner interests and associated incentive distribution rights and limited partner interests in publicly traded partnerships and, subject to our business opportunity agreements, acquiring assets and businesses that may or may not relate to Enterprise Products Partners’ business. However, we may not be able to grow through acquisitions if we are unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities or acquire identified targets. In addition, increased competition for acquisition opportunities may increase our cost of making acquisitions or cause us to refrain from making acquisitions. If we are able to make future acquisitions, we may not be successful in integrating our acquisitions into our existing or future assets and businesses. Risks related to our acquisition strategy include: • the creation of conflicts of interests and competing fiduciary obligations that may inhibit our ability to grow or make additional acquisitions; • additional or increased regulatory or compliance obligations, including financial reporting obligations; • delays or unforeseen operational difficulties or diminished financial performance associated with the integration of new acquisitions, and the resulting delayed or diminished cash flows from such acquisitions; • inefficiencies and complexities that may arise due to unfamiliarity with new assets, businesses or markets; • conflicts with regard to the sharing of management responsibilities and allocation of time among overlapping officers, directors and other personnel; • the inability to hire, train and retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing business; and 18 • the inability to obtain required financing for our existing business and new investment opportunities. To the extent we pursue an acquisition that causes us to incur unexpected costs, or that fails to generate expected returns, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected, and our ability to make distributions and/or the market price of our units may be negatively impacted. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest in us to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of Dan Duncan LLC, as the sole member of EPE Holdings, to sell or transfer all or part of its ownership interest in EPE Holdings to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the directors and officers of EPE Holdings. All of our units and substantially all of the common units of Enterprise Products Partners that are owned by EPCO and its affiliates, other than Dan Duncan LLC and certian trusts affiliated with Dan L. Duncan, are pledged as security under the credit facility of an affiliate of EPCO. Upon an event of default under this credit facility, a change in ownership or control of us or Enterprise Products Partners could result. All of our units and substantially all of the common units of Enterprise Products Partners (other than the 13,454,498 common units we own) that are owned or controlled by EPCO and its affiliates, other than Dan Duncan LLC and certian trusts affiliated with Dan L. Duncan, are pledged as security under a credit facility of EPCO Holdings, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of EPCO. This credit facility contains customary and other events of default relating to certain defaults of the borrower, us, Enterprise Products Partners and other affiliates of EPCO. Upon an event of default, a change in control or ownership of us or Enterprise Products Partners could result. All of our assets are pledged under our credit facility. The 13,454,498 common units of Enterprise Products Partners and the 100% membership interest in Enterprise Products GP owned by us are pledged as security under our credit facility. Our credit facility contains customary and other events of default. Upon an event of default, the lenders under our credit facility could foreclose on our assets, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require you to sell your units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 90% of our outstanding units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Our unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. At December 31, 2005, affiliates of EPE Holdings, including EPE Unit L.P. (the “Employee Partnership”), owned approximately 86.5% of our units. We depend on the leadership and involvement of Dan L. Duncan and other key personnel for the success of our and our subsidiaries’ businesses. We depend on the leadership, involvement and services of Dan L. Duncan, the founder of EPCO and the Chairman of each of EPE Holdings and Enterprise Products GP. Mr. Duncan has been integral to 19 the success of Enterprise Products Partners and EPCO due in part to his ability to identify and develop business opportunities, make strategic decisions and attract and retain key personnel. The loss of his leadership and involvement or the services of any members of our or Enterprise Products Partners’ senior management teams could have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition of us, Enterprise Products Partners and our affiliates. An increase in interest rates may cause the market price of our units to decline. As interest rates rise, the ability of investors to obtain higher risk-adjusted rates of return by purchasing government-backed debt securities may cause a corresponding decline in demand for riskier investments generally, including yield-based equity investments such as publicly traded limited partnership interests. Reduced demand for our units resulting from investors seeking other more favorable investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our units to decline. Enterprise Products Partners may issue additional units, which may increase the risk that Enterprise Products Partners will not have sufficient available cash to maintain or increase its per unit distribution level. Enterprise Products Partners has wide latitude to issue additional units on terms and conditions established by Enterprise Products GP. The payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that Enterprise Products Partners will be unable to maintain or increase its per unit distribution level, which in turn may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders. Unitholders’ liability as a limited partner may not be limited, and our unitholders may have to repay distributions or make additional contributions to us under certain circumstances. As a limited partner in a partnership organized under Delaware law, our unitholders could be held liable for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner if they participate in the “control” of our business. EPE Holdings generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to EPE Holdings. Additionally, the limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in many jurisdictions. Under certain circumstances, our unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, neither we nor Enterprise Products Partners may make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our or Enterprise Products Partners’ respective liabilities to exceed the fair value of our respective assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the partnership for the distribution amount. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. If in the future we cease to manage and control Enterprise Products Partners through our direct or indirect ownership of Enterprise Products GP, we may be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we cease to manage and control Enterprise Products Partners and are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we would either have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, obtain exemptive relief from the Securities and Exchange Commission, or modify our organizational structure or our contract rights to fall outside the definition of an investment company. Registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property to or from our affiliates, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage and require us to add additional directors who are independent of us or our affiliates. 20 Our partnership agreement restricts the rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our units. Our unitholders’ voting rights are restricted by the provision in our partnership agreement generally providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than EPE Holdings and its affiliates, cannot be voted on any matter. In addition, our partnership agreement contains provisions limiting the ability of our unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting our unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of our management. As a result, the price at which our units will trade may be lower because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest Conflicts of interest exist and may arise in the future among us, Enterprise Products Partners, TEPPCO Partners L.P. (“TEPPCO”), a publicly traded limited partnership the common units of which are listed on the NYSE under the ticker symbol “TPP”, and our respective general partners and affiliates. Future conflicts of interest may arise among us and the entities represented by any general partner interests we acquire or among Enterprise Products Partners, TEPPCO and such entities. Conflicts of interest exist and may arise among us, Enterprise Products Partners, TEPPCO and our respective general partners and affiliates and entities affiliated with any general partner interests that we may acquire in the future. Conflicts of interest exist and may arise in the future as a result of the relationships among us, Enterprise Products Partners, TEPPCO and our respective general partners and affiliates. EPE Holdings is controlled by Dan Duncan LLC, of which Dan L. Duncan is the sole member. Accordingly, Mr. Duncan has the ability to elect, remove and replace the directors and officers of EPE Holdings. Similarly, through his indirect control of the general partner of each of Enterprise Products Partners and TEPPCO, Mr. Duncan has the ability to elect, remove and replace the directors and officers of the general partner of each of Enterprise Products Partners and TEPPCO. The assets of Enterprise Products Partners and TEPPCO overlap in certain areas, which may result in various conflicts of interest in the future. EPE Holdings’ directors and officers have fiduciary duties to manage our business in a manner beneficial to us and our partners. However, all of EPE Holdings’ executive officers and non-independent directors also serve as executive officers or directors of Enterprise Products GP and, as a result, have fiduciary duties to manage the business of Enterprise Products Partners in a manner beneficial to Enterprise Products Partners and its partners. Consequently, these directors and officers may encounter situations in which their fiduciary obligations to Enterprise Products Partners, on the one hand, and us, on the other hand, are in conflict. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our unitholders. Future conflicts of interest may arise among us and any entities whose general partner interests we or our affiliates acquire or among Enterprise Products Partners, TEPPCO and such entities. It is not possible to predict the nature or extent of these potential future conflicts of interest at this time, nor is it possible to determine how we will address and resolve any such future conflicts of interest. However, the resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our unitholders. If we are presented with certain business opportunities, Enterprise Products Partners will have the first right to pursue such opportunities. Pursuant to an administrative services agreement, we have agreed to certain business opportunity arrangements to address potential conflicts that may arise among us, Enterprise Products Partners and the EPCO Group (which includes EPCO and its affiliates, excluding Enterprise Products GP, Enterprise Products Partners and its subsidiaries, us and EPE Holdings and TEPPCO, it’s general partner and their controlled affiliates). If a business opportunity in respect of any assets other than equity securities, which we generally define to include general partner interests in publicly traded partnerships and similar interests and associated incentive distribution rights and limited partner interests or similar interests owned by the 21 owner of such general partner or its affiliates, is presented to the EPCO Group, us, EPE Holdings, Enterprise Products GP or Enterprise Products Partners, then Enterprise Products Partners will have the first right to acquire such assets. The administrative services agreement provides, among other things, that Enterprise Products Partners will be presumed to desire to acquire the assets until such time as it advises the EPCO Group and us that it has abandoned the pursuit of such business opportunity, and we may not pursue the acquisition of such assets prior to that time. These business opportunity arrangements limit our ability to pursue acquisitions of assets that are not “equity securities.” Our general partner’s affiliates may compete with us. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will be restricted from engaging in any business activities other than acting as our general partner and those activities incidental to its ownership of interests in us. Except as provided in our partnership agreement and subject to certain business opportunity agreements, affiliates of our general partner are not prohibited from engaging in other businesses or activities, including those that might be in direct competition with us. Potential conflicts of interest may arise among our general partner, its affiliates and us. Our general partner and its affiliates have limited fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our unitholders. At December 31, 2005, Dan L. Duncan, EPCO and their controlled affiliates, including the Employee Partnership, owned approximately 86.5% of our units, and Dan Duncan LLC owned 100% of EPE Holdings. Dan Duncan serves as EPE Holdings’ Chairman as well as the Chairman of Enterprise Products GP. Conflicts of interest may arise among EPE Holdings and its affiliates, including TEPPCO, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, EPE Holdings may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following: • EPE Holdings is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, including EPCO, Enterprise Products GP, Enterprise Products Partners and their respective affiliates and any future general partners and limited partnerships acquired in the future in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders; • our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties under our partnership agreement, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without these limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. As a result of purchasing our units, unitholders consent to various actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable state law; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of our investment transactions, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders; • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered, or from entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf, so long as the terms of any such payments or additional contractual arrangements are fair and reasonable to us; • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates; and • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. 22 Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement: • permits EPE Holdings to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles EPE Holdings to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner; • provides that our general partner is entitled to make other decisions in “good faith” if it reasonably believes that the decision is in our best interests; • generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the audit and conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be “fair and reasonable” to us and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; and • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud, willful misconduct or gross negligence. In order to become a limited partner of our partnership, our unitholders are required to agree to be bound by the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Enterprise Products GP controls Enterprise Products Partners and may influence cash distributed to us. Although we are the sole member of Enterprise Products GP, our control over Enterprise Products GP’s actions is limited. The fiduciary duties owed by Enterprise Products GP to Enterprise Products Partners and its unitholders prevent us from influencing Enterprise Products GP to take any action that would benefit us to the detriment of Enterprise Products Partners or its unitholders. For example, Enterprise Products GP makes business determinations on behalf of Enterprise Products Partners that impact the amount of cash distributed by Enterprise Products Partners to its unitholders and to Enterprise Products GP, which in turn, affects the amount of cash distributions we receive from Enterprise Products Partners and Enterprise Partners GP and consequently, the amount of distributions we can pay to our unitholders. Some of our directors and all of our executive officers face conflicts of interest in managing our business. Certain of our executive officers and directors are also officers and/or directors of EPCO, the general partner of Enterprise Products Partners, the general partner of TEPPCO and other affiliates of EPCO. These relationships may create conflicts of interest regarding corporate opportunities and other matters. The resolution of any such conflicts may not always be in our or our unitholders' best interests. In addition, these overlapping executive officers and directors will allocate time among EPCO, us, Enterprise Products Partners, TEPPCO and other affiliates of EPCO. These officers and directors face conflicts regarding the allocation of their time, which may adversely affect our or Enterprise Products Partners’ business, results of operations and financial condition. Please read Item 10 of this annual report for more detailed information on which of our officers and directors serve as officers and/or directors of EPCO, the 23 general partner of Enterprise Products Partners, the general partner of TEPPCO and other affiliates of EPCO. Risks Related to Enterprise Products Partners' Business Since our cash flows consist exclusively of distributions from Enterprise Products Partners, risks to Enterprise Products Partners’ business are also risks to us. We have set forth below risks to Enterprise Products Partners’ business, the occurrence of which could have negative impact on Enterprise Products Partners’ financial performance and decrease the amount of cash it is able to distribute to us, thereby impacting the amount of cash that we are able to distribute to our unitholders. Changes in the prices of hydrocarbon products may materially adversely affect Enterprise Products Partners’ results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Enterprise Products Partners operates predominantly in the midstream energy sector which includes gathering, transporting, processing, fractionating and storing natural gas, NGLs and crude oil. As such, its results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be materially adversely affected by changes in the prices of these hydrocarbon products and by changes in the relative price levels among these hydrocarbon products. Generally, the prices of natural gas, NGLs, crude oil and other hydrocarbon products are subject to fluctuations in response to changes in supply, demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are impossible to control. These factors include: • the level of domestic production; • the availability of imported oil and natural gas; • actions taken by foreign oil and natural gas producing nations; • the availability of transportation systems with adequate capacity; • the availability of competitive fuels; • fluctuating and seasonal demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs; and • conservation and the extent of governmental regulation of production and the overall economic environment. Enterprise Products Partners is exposed to natural gas and NGL commodity price risk under certain of its natural gas processing and gathering and NGL fractionation contracts that provide for its fees to be calculated based on a regional natural gas or NGL price index or to be paid in-kind by taking title to natural gas or NGLs. A decrease in natural gas and NGL prices can result in lower margins from these contracts, which may materially adversely affect Enterprise Products Partners' results of operations, cash flows and financial position. A decline in the volume of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil delivered to Enterprise Products Partners’ facilities could adversely affect its results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Enterprise Products Partners' profitability could be materially impacted by a decline in the volume of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil transported, gathered or processed at its facilities. A material decrease in natural gas or crude oil production or crude oil refining, as a result of depressed commodity prices, a decrease in exploration and development activities or otherwise, could result in a decline in the volume of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil handled by its facilities. The crude oil, natural gas and NGLs available to Enterprise Products Partners' facilities will be derived from reserves produced from existing wells, which reserves naturally decline over time. To offset 24 this natural decline, Enterprise Products Partners' facilities will need access to additional reserves. Additionally, some of its facilities will be dependent on reserves that are expected to be produced from newly discovered properties that are currently being developed. Exploration and development of new oil and natural gas reserves is capital intensive, particularly offshore in the Gulf of Mexico. Many economic and business factors are beyond Enterprise Products Partners' control and can adversely affect the decision by producers to explore for and develop new reserves. These factors could include relatively low oil and natural gas prices, cost and availability of equipment and labor, regulatory changes, capital budget limitations, the lack of available capital or the probability of success in finding hydrocarbons. For example, a sustained decline in the price of natural gas and crude oil could result in a decrease in natural gas and crude oil exploration and development activities in the regions where Enterprise Products Partners' facilities are located. This could result in a decrease in volumes to its offshore platforms, natural gas processing plants, natural gas, crude oil and NGL pipelines, and NGL fractionators, which would have a material adverse affect on its results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Additional reserves, if discovered, may not be developed in the near future or at all. A decrease in demand for NGL products by the petrochemical, refining or heating industries could materially adversely affect Enterprise Products Partners' results of operations, cash flows and financial position. A decrease in demand for NGL products by the petrochemical, refining or heating industries, whether because of general economic conditions, reduced demand by consumers for the end products made with NGL products, increased competition from petroleum-based products due to pricing differences, adverse weather conditions, government regulations affecting prices and production levels of natural gas or the content of motor gasoline or other reasons, could materially adversely affect Enterprise Products Partners' results of operations, cash flows and financial position. For example: Ethane. If natural gas prices increase significantly in relation to ethane prices, it may be more profitable for natural gas producers to leave the ethane in the natural gas stream to be burned as fuel than to extract the ethane from the mixed NGL stream for sale. Propane. The demand for propane as a heating fuel is significantly affected by weather conditions. Unusually warm winters could cause the demand for propane to decline significantly and could cause a significant decline in the volumes of propane that Enterprise Products Partners transports. Isobutane. A reduction in demand for motor gasoline additives may reduce demand for isobutane. During periods in which the difference in market prices between isobutane and normal butane is low or inventory values are high relative to current prices for normal butane or isobutane, its operating margin from selling isobutane could be reduced. Propylene. A downturn in the domestic or international economy could cause reduced demand for propylene, which could cause a reduction in the volumes of propylene that Enterprise Products Partners produces and expose its investment in inventories of propane/propylene mix to pricing risk due to requirements for short-term price discounts in the spot or short-term propylene markets. Enterprise Products Partners faces competition from third parties in its midstream businesses. Even if reserves exist in the areas accessed by Enterprise Products Partners’ facilities and are ultimately produced, Enterprise Products Partners may not be chosen by the producers in these areas to gather, transport, process, fractionate, store or otherwise handle the hydrocarbons that are produced. Enterprise Products Partners competes with others, including producers of oil and natural gas, for any such production on the basis of many factors, including: • geographic proximity to the production; • costs of connection; 25 • available capacity; • rates; and • access to markets. Enterprise Products Partners’ future debt level may limit its future financial and operating flexibility. As of December 31, 2005, Enterprise Products Partners had approximately $4.8 billion of consolidated debt outstanding. The amount of Enterprise Products Partners’ future debt could have significant effects on its operations, including, among other things: • a significant portion of Enterprise Products Partners' cash flow could be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on its future debt and may not be available for other purposes, including the payment of distributions on its common units and capital expenditures; • credit rating agencies may view its debt level negatively; • covenants contained in its existing debt arrangements will require it to continue to meet financial tests that may adversely affect its flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in its business; • its ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general partnership purposes may be limited; • it may be at a competitive disadvantage relative to similar companies that have less debt; and • it may be more vulnerable to adverse economic and industry conditions as a result of its significant debt level. Enterprise Products Partners' public debt indentures currently do not limit the amount of future indebtedness that it can create, incur, assume or guarantee. Although its Multi-Year Revolving Credit Facility restricts its ability to incur additional debt above certain levels, any debt it may incur in compliance with these restrictions may still be substantial. For more information regarding Enterprise Products Partners’ Multi-Year Revolving Credit Facility, please read Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8 of this annual report. Enterprise Products Partners' Multi-Year Revolving Credit Facility and each of its indentures for its public debt contain conventional financial covenants and other restrictions. For example, Enterprise Products Partners is prohibited from making distributions to its partners if such distributions would cause an even of default or otherwise violate a covenant under its Multi-Year Revolving Credit Facility. A breach of any of these restrictions by Enterprise Products Partners could permit its lenders or noteholders, as applicable, to declare all amounts outstanding under these debt agreements to be immediately due and payable and, in the case of its Multi-Year Revolving Credit Facility, to terminate all commitments to extend further credit. For additional information regarding Enterprise Products Partners' Multi-Year Revolving Credit Facility, please read Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8 of this annual report. Enterprise Products Partners' ability to access capital markets to raise capital on favorable terms will be affected by its debt level, the amount of its debt maturing in the next several years and current maturities, and by prevailing market conditions. Moreover, if the rating agencies were to downgrade Enterprise Products Partners' credit rating, then Enterprise Products Partners could experience an increase in its borrowing costs, difficulty assessing capital markets or a reduction in the market price of its common units. Such a development could adversely affect Enterprise Products Partners' ability to obtain financing for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions or to refinance existing indebtedness. If Enterprise 26 Products Partners is unable to access the capital markets on favorable terms in the future, it might be forced to seek extensions for some of its short-term securities or to refinance some of its debt obligations through bank credit, as opposed to long-term public debt securities or equity securities. The price and terms upon which Enterprise Products Partners might receive such extensions or additional bank credit, if at all, could be more onerous than those contained in existing debt agreements. Any such arrangements could, in turn, increase the risk that Enterprise Products Partners' leverage may adversely affect its future financial and operating flexibility and thereby impact its ability to pay cash distributions at expected rates. Enterprise Products Partners may not be able to fully execute its growth strategy if it encounters illiquid capital markets or increased competition for investment opportunities. Enterprise Products Partners' strategy contemplates growth through the development and acquisition of a wide range of midstream and other energy infrastructure assets while maintaining a strong balance sheet. This strategy includes constructing and acquiring additional assets and businesses to enhance its ability to compete effectively and diversifying its asset portfolio, thereby providing more stable cash flow. Enterprise Products Partners regularly considers and enters into discussions regarding, and is currently contemplating and/or pursuing, potential joint ventures, stand alone projects or other transactions that it believes will present opportunities to realize synergies, expand its role in the energy infrastructure business and increase its market position. Enterprise Products Partners will require substantial new capital to finance the future development and acquisition of assets and businesses. Any limitations on Enterprise Products Partners' access to capital will impair its ability to execute this strategy. If the cost of such capital becomes too expensive, Enterprise Products Partners' ability to develop or acquire accretive assets will be limited. Enterprise Products Partners may not be able to raise the necessary funds on satisfactory terms, if at all. The primary factors that influence Enterprise Products Partners’ initial cost of equity include market conditions, fees it pays to underwriters and other offering costs, which include amounts it pays for legal and accounting services. The primary factors influencing Enterprise Products Partners’ cost of borrowing include interest rates, credit spreads, covenants, underwriting or loan origination fees and similar charges it pays to lenders. In addition, Enterprise Products Partners is experiencing increased competition for the types of assets and businesses it has historically purchased or acquired. Increased competition for a limited pool of assets could result in Enterprise Products Partners losing to other bidders more often or acquiring assets at less attractive prices. Either occurrence would limit Enterprise Products Partners' ability to fully execute its growth strategy. Enterprise Products Partners' inability to execute its growth strategy may materially adversely affect its ability to maintain or pay higher distributions in the future. Enterprise Products Partners’ growth strategy may adversely affect its results of operations if it does not successfully integrate the businesses that it acquires or if it substantially increases its indebtedness and contingent liabilities to make acquisitions. Enterprise Products Partners’ growth strategy includes making accretive acquisitions. As a result, from time to time, Enterprise Products Partners will evaluate and acquire assets and businesses that it believes complement its existing operations. Enterprise Products Partners may be unable to integrate successfully businesses it acquires in the future. Enterprise Products Partners may incur substantial expenses or encounter delays or other problems in connection with its growth strategy that could negatively impact its results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Moreover, acquisitions and business expansions involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies or business segments; • establishing the internal controls and procedures that Enterprise Products Partners is required to maintain under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; 27 • managing relationships with new joint venture partners with whom Enterprise Products Partners has not previously partnered; • inefficiencies and complexities that can arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them, including with their markets; and • diversion of the attention of management and other personnel from day-to-day business to the development or acquisition of new businesses and other business opportunities. If consummated, any acquisition or investment would also likely result in the incurrence of indebtedness and contingent liabilities and an increase in interest expense and depreciation, depletion and amortization expenses. As a result, Enterprise Products Partners’ capitalization and results of operations may change significantly following an acquisition. A substantial increase in Enterprise Products Partners’ indebtedness and contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, any anticipated benefits of a material acquisition, such as expected cost savings, may not be fully realized, if at all. Enterprise Products Partners' growth strategy may adversely affect its results of operations if it does not successfully integrate the businesses that it acquires or if it substantially increases its indebtedness and contingent liabilities to make acquisitions. Enterprise Products Partners' growth strategy includes making accretive acquisitions. As a result, from time to time, Enterprise Products Partners will evaluate and acquire assets and businesses that it believes complements its existing operations. Enterprise Products Partners may incur substantial expenses or encounter delays or other problems in connection with its growth strategy that could negatively impact its results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. If consummated, any acquisition or investment would also likely result in the incurrence of indebtedness and contingent liabilities and an increase in interest expense and depreciation and amortization expenses. As a result, Enterprise Products Partners' capitalization and results of operations may change significantly following an acquisition. A substantial increase in Enterprise Products Partners' indebtedness and contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Enterprise Products Partners' operating cash flows from our capital projects may not immediate. Enterprise Products Partners is engaged in several construction projects involving existing and new facilities for which significant capital has been or will be expended, and Enterprise Products Partners' operating cash flow from a particular project may not increase until a period of time after its completion. For instance, if Enterprise Products Partners builds a new pipeline or platform or expand an existing facility, the design, construction, development and installation may occur over an extended period of time, and Enterprise Products Partners may not receive any material increase in operating cash flow from that project until a period of time after it is placed in service. If Enterprise Products Partners experiences any unanticipated or extended delays in generating operating cash flow from these projects, Enterprise Products Partners may be required to reduce or reprioritize its capital budget, sell non-core assets, access the capital markets or decrease or limit distributions to unitholders in order to meet its capital requirements. Enterprise Products Partners’ actual construction, development and acquisition costs could exceed forecasted amounts. Enterprise Products Partners will have significant expenditures for the development and construction of energy infrastructure assets, including some construction and development projects with significant technological challenges. Enterprise Products Partners may not be able to complete its projects at the costs estimated at the time of each project's initiation. 28 The interruption of distributions to Enterprise Products Partners from its subsidiaries and joint ventures may affect its ability to satisfy its obligations and to make distributions to its partners. Enterprise Products Partners is a holding company with no business operations. Its only significant assets are the equity interests it owns in its subsidiaries and joint ventures. As a result, Enterprise Products Partners depends upon the earnings and cash flow of its subsidiaries and joint ventures and the distribution of that cash in order to meet its obligations and to allow it to make distributions to its partners. In addition, the charter documents governing Enterprise Products Partners’ joint ventures typically vest in the joint venture management committee sole discretion regarding the occurrence and amount of distributions. Some of the joint ventures in which Enterprise Products Partners participates have separate credit agreements that contain various restrictive covenants. Among other things, those covenants may limit or restrict the joint venture’s ability to make distributions to Enterprise Products Partners under certain circumstances. Accordingly, Enterprise Products Partners’ joint ventures may be unable to make distributions to it at current levels, if at all. Enterprise Products Partners may be unable to cause its joint ventures to take or not to take certain actions unless some or all of its joint venture participants agree. Enterprise Products Partners participates in several joint ventures. Due to the nature of some of these arrangements, the participants have made substantial investments and, accordingly, have required that the relevant charter documents contain certain features designed to provide each participant with the opportunity to participate in the management of the joint venture and to protect its investment, as well as any other assets which may be substantially dependent on or otherwise affected by the activities of that joint venture. These participation and protective features customarily include a corporate governance structure that requires at least a majority-in-interest vote to authorize many basic activities and requires a greater voting interest (sometimes up to 100%) to authorize more significant activities. Examples of these more significant activities are large expenditures or contractual commitments, the construction or acquisition of assets, borrowing money or otherwise raising capital, transactions with affiliates of a joint venture participant, litigation and transactions not in the ordinary course of business, among others. Thus, without the concurrence of joint venture participants with enough voting interests, Enterprise Products Partners may be unable to cause any of its joint ventures to take or not to take certain actions, even though those actions may be in the best interest of Enterprise Products Partners or the particular joint venture. Moreover, any joint venture owner may sell, transfer or otherwise modify its ownership interest in a joint venture, whether in a transaction involving third parties or the other joint venture owners. Any such transaction could result in Enterprise Products Partners being required to partner with different or additional parties. A natural disaster, catastrophe or other event could result in severe personal injury, property damage and environmental damage, which could curtail Enterprise Products Partners’ operations and otherwise materially adversely affect its cash flow and, accordingly, affect the market price of its common units. Some of Enterprise Products Partners’ operations involve risks of personal injury, property damage and environmental damage, which could curtail its operations and otherwise materially adversely affect its cash flow. For example, natural gas facilities operate at high pressures, sometimes in excess of 1,100 pounds per square inch. Enterprise Products Partners also operates oil and natural gas facilities located underwater in the Gulf of Mexico, which can involve complexities, such as extreme water pressure. Virtually all of Enterprise Products Partners' operations are exposed to potential natural disasters, including hurricanes, tornadoes, storms, floods and/or earthquakes. If one or more facilities that are owned by Enterprise Products Partners or that deliver oil, natural gas or other products to Enterprise Products Partners are damaged by severe weather or any other disaster, accident, catastrophe or event, Enterprise Products Partners' operations could be significantly interrupted. 29 Similar interruptions could result from damage to production or other facilities that supply Enterprise Products Partners’ facilities or other stoppages arising from factors beyond its control. These interruptions might involve significant damage to people, property or the environment, and repairs might take from a week or less for a minor incident to six months or more for a major interruption. Additionally, some of the storage contracts that Enterprise Products Partners is a party to obligate Enterprise Products Partners to indemnify its customers for any damage or injury occurring during the period in which the customers’ natural gas is in its possession. Any event that interrupts the revenues generated by Enterprise Products Partners' operations, or which causes it to make significant expenditures not covered by insurance, could reduce its cash available for paying distributions and, accordingly, adversely affect the market price of its common units. Enterprise Products Partners believes that EPCO maintains adequate insurance coverage on behalf of it, although insurance will not cover many types of interruptions that might occur. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. As a result, EPCO may not be able to renew existing insurance policies on behalf of Enterprise Products Partners or procure other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If Enterprise Products Partners were to incur a significant liability for which it was not fully insured, a material adverse effect on its financial position and results of operations could occur. In addition, the proceeds of any such insurance may not be paid in a timely manner and may be insufficient if such an event were to occur. An impairment of goodwill and intangible assets could reduce Enterprise Products Partners’ earnings. At December 31, 2005, Enterprise Products Partners’ balance sheet reflected $494 million of goodwill and $913.6 million of intangible assets. Goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business exceeds the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ( “GAAP”) require Enterprise Products Partners to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. Long-lived assets such as intangible assets with finite useful lives are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If Enterprise Products Partners determines that any of its goodwill or intangible assets were impaired, it would be required to take an immediate charge to earnings with a correlative effect on partners’ equity and balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. Increases in interest rates could materially adversely affect Enterprise Products Partners’ business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In addition to Enterprise Products Partners’ exposure to commodity prices, it has significant exposure to increases in interest rates. As of December 31, 2005, it had approximately $4.8 billion of consolidated debt, of which approximately $3.3 billion was at fixed interest rates and approximately $1.5 billion was at variable interest rates, after giving effect to existing interest swap arrangements. From time to time, Enterprise Products Partners may enter into additional interest rate swap arrangements, which could increase its exposure to variable interest rates. As a result, its results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, could be materially adversely affected by significant increases in interest rates. An increase in interest rates may also cause a corresponding decline in demand for equity investments, in general, and in particular for yield-based equity investments such as Enterprise Products Partners' common units. Any such reduction in demand for its common units resulting from other more attractive investment opportunities may cause the trading price of its common units to decline. The use of derivative financial instruments could result in material financial losses by Enterprise Products Partners. Enterprise Products Partners historically has sought to limit a portion of the adverse effects resulting from changes in oil and natural gas commodity prices and interest rates by using financial 30 derivative instruments and other hedging mechanisms from time to time. To the extent that Enterprise Products Partners hedges its commodity price and interest rate exposures, it will forego the benefits we would otherwise experience if commodity prices or interest rates were to change in its favor. In addition, even though monitored by management, hedging activities can result in losses. Such losses could occur under various circumstances, including if a counterparty does not perform its obligations under the hedge arrangement, the hedge is imperfect, or hedging policies and procedures are not followed. Enterprise Products Partners’ pipeline integrity program may impose significant costs and liabilities on it. The U.S. Department of Transportation issued final rules (effective March 2001 with respect to hazardous liquid pipelines and February 2004 with respect to natural gas pipelines) requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate their pipelines, and take measures to protect pipeline segments located in what the rules refer to as “high consequence areas.” The final rule resulted from the enactment of the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002. At this time, Enterprise Products Partners cannot predict the ultimate costs of compliance with this rule because those costs will depend on the number and extent of any repairs found to be necessary as a result of the pipeline integrity testing that is required by the rule. Enterprise Products Partners will continue its pipeline integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of its pipelines. The results of these tests could cause Enterprise Products Partners to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of its pipelines. Environmental costs and liabilities and changing environmental regulation could materially affect Enterprise Products Partners’ results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Enterprise Products Partners’ operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulatory requirements relating to environmental affairs, health and safety, waste management and chemical and petroleum products. Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with applicable regulations and permits and to subject violators to civil and criminal penalties, including substantial fines, injunctions or both. Third parties may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance. Enterprise Products Partners will make expenditures in connection with environmental matters as part of normal capital expenditure programs. However, future environmental law developments, such as stricter laws, regulations, permits or enforcement policies, could significantly increase some costs of Enterprise Products Partners' operations, including the handling, manufacture, use, emission or disposal of substances and wastes. Federal, state or local regulatory measures could materially adversely affect Enterprise Products Partners’ business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The FERC regulates Enterprise Products Partners' interstate natural gas pipelines and interstate natural gas storage facilities under the Natural Gas Act, and interstate NGL and petrochemical pipelines under the ICA. The STB regulates Enterprise Products Partners’ interstate propylene pipelines. State regulatory agencies regulate its intrastate natural gas and NGL pipelines, intrastate storage facilities and gathering lines. Under the Natural Gas Act, the FERC has authority to regulate natural gas companies that provide natural gas pipeline transportation services in interstate commerce. Its authority to regulate those services is comprehensive and includes the rates charged for the services, terms and condition of service and certification and construction of new facilities. The FERC requires that Enterprise Products Partners' services are provided on a non-discriminatory basis so that all shippers have open access to its pipelines and storage. Pursuant to the FERC’s jurisdiction over interstate gas pipeline rates, existing pipeline rates may be challenged by customer complaint or by the FERC Staff and proposed rate increases may be challenged by protest. 31 Enterprise Products Partners has interests in natural gas pipeline facilities offshore from Texas and Louisiana. These facilities are subject to regulation by the FERC and other federal agencies, including the Department of Interior, under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, and by the Department of Transportation's Office of Pipeline Safety under the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act. Enterprise Products Partners' intrastate NGL and natural gas pipelines are subject to regulation in many states, including Alabama, Colorado, Louisiana, Mississippi, New Mexico and Texas, and its intrastate natural gas pipelines are subject to regulation by the FERC pursuant to Section 311 of the Natural Gas Policy Act. Enterprise Products Partners also has natural gas underground storage facilities in Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Although state regulation is typically less onerous than at the FERC, proposed and existing rates subject to state regulation and the provision of services on a non-discriminatory basis are also subject to challenge by protest and complaint, respectively. For a general overview of federal, state and local regulation applicable to Enterprise Products Partners' assets, please read the regulation and environmental information included under Item 1 of this annual report. This regulatory oversight can affect certain aspects of Enterprise Products Partners' business and the market for its products and could materially adversely affect its cash flows. Terrorist attacks aimed at Enterprise Products Partners’ facilities could adversely affect its business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Since the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States, the United States government has issued warnings that energy assets, including our nation's pipeline infrastructure, may be the future target of terrorist organizations. Any terrorist attack on Enterprise Products Partners’ facilities or pipelines or those of its customers could have a material adverse effect on its business. Tax Risks to Our Unitholders If we or Enterprise Products Partners were to become subject to entity level taxation for federal or state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in our units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS (“Internal Revenue Service”) on this matter. The value of our investment in Enterprise Products Partners depends largely on Enterprise Products Partners being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and we would likely pay state taxes as well. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Thus, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in our anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our units. If Enterprise Products Partners were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, it would pay federal income tax on its taxable income at the corporate tax rate. Distributions to us would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deduction or credits would flow through to us. As a result, there would be a material reduction in our anticipated cash flow, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our units. Current law may change, causing us or Enterprise Products Partners to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjecting us or Enterprise Products Partners to entity level taxation. For example, because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to 32 subject partnerships to entity level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If any state were to impose a tax upon us or Enterprise Products Partners as an entity, the cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be reduced. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our units may be adversely impacted, and the costs of any contest will be borne by our unitholders and EPE Holdings. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the position we take, even positions taken with advice of counsel. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to our unitholders and our general partner and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner. A successful IRS contest of the federal income tax positions taken by Enterprise Products Partners may adversely impact the market for its common units, and the costs of any contest will be borne by Enterprise Products Partners, and therefore indirectly by us and the other unitholders of Enterprise Products Partners. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions Enterprise Products Partners takes, even positions taken with the advice of counsel. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions Enterprise Products Partners takes. A court may not agree with all of the positions Enterprise Products Partners takes. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for Enterprise Products Partners’ common units and the prices at which the common units trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne by Enterprise Products Partners and therefore indirectly by us, as a unitholder and as the owner of the general partner of Enterprise Products Partners, and by the other unitholders of Enterprise Products Partners. Even if our unitholders do not receive any cash distributions from us, they will be required to pay taxes on their share of our taxable income. Our unitholders will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from their share of our taxable income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our units could be different than expected. If our unitholders sell their units, they will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those units. Prior distributions in excess of the total net taxable income allocated to a unitholder for a unit, which decreased his tax basis in that unit, will, in effect, become taxable income if the unit is sold at a price greater than such unitholder’s tax basis in that unit, even if the price received is less than such unitholder’s original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income to our unitholders. Tax-exempt entities, regulated investment companies and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), regulated investment companies (known as mutual funds), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Recent legislation treats net income derived from the ownership of certain publicly traded partnerships (including us) as qualifying income to a regulated 33 investment company. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. We will treat each purchaser of our units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of units, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of units and could have a negative impact on the value of our units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns. Our unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements as a result of investing in our units. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, such as state and local income taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we or Enterprise Products Partners do business or own property. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We or Enterprise Products Partners may own property or conduct business in other states or foreign countries in the future. It is our unitholders’ responsibility to file all federal, state and local tax returns. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 