ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below is a detailed discussion of risks related to our industry and our business. In addition to the other information in this document, you should consider carefully the following risk factors. Any of these risks or the occurrence of any one or more of the uncertainties described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the performance of our business. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY Freight transportation rates for the Inland Waterways fluctuate from time to time and may decrease. Freight transportation rates fluctuate from season-to-season and year-to-year. Levels of dry and liquid cargo being transported on the Inland Waterways vary based on several factors including global economic conditions and business cycles, domestic agricultural production and demand, international agricultural production and demand, and foreign exchange rates. Additionally, fluctuation of ocean freight rate spreads between the Gulf of Mexico and the Pacific Northwest affects demand for barging on the Inland Waterways, especially in grain movements. Grain, particularly corn for export, has been a significant part of our business. Since the beginning of 2006, all grain transported by us has been under spot market contracts. Spot grain contracts are normally priced at, or near, the quoted tariff rates in effect for the river segment of the move. Spot rates can vary widely from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. A decline in spot rates could 18 Table of Contents negatively impact our business. The number of barges and towboats available to transport dry and liquid cargo on the Inland Waterways also varies from year-to-year as older vessels are retired and new vessels are placed into service. The resulting relationship between levels of cargoes and vessels available for transport affects the freight transportation rates that we are able to charge. An oversupply of barging capacity may lead to reductions in freight rates. Our industry has previously suffered from an oversupply of barges relative to demand for barging services. Such oversupply may recur due to a variety of factors, including a drop in demand, overbuilding and delay in scrapping of barges approaching the end of their useful economic lives. Calendar year 2006 was the first year in eight years that more barges were built than scrapped. We believe that approximately 25% of the industry’s existing dry cargo barge fleet will need to be retired due to age over the next five years. If that occurs it will continue to constrain barge capacity. If an oversupply of barges were to occur, it could take several years before supply growth matches demand due to the variable nature of the barging industry and the freight transportation industry in general, and the relatively long life of marine equipment. Such oversupply could lead to reductions in the freight rates that we are able to charge. Yields from North American and worldwide grain harvests could materially affect demand for our barging services. Demand for dry cargo barging in North America is affected significantly by the volume of grain exports flowing through ports on the Gulf of Mexico. The volume of grain exports can vary due to, among other things, crop harvest yield levels in the United States and abroad. Overseas grain shortages increase demand for U.S. grain, while worldwide over-production decreases demand for U.S. grain. Other factors, such as domestic ethanol demand and overseas markets acceptance of genetically altered products, may also affect demand for U.S. grain. Fluctuations in demand for U.S. grain exports can lead to temporary barge oversupply, which in turn leads to reduced freight rates. We cannot assure that historical levels of U.S. grain exports will be maintained in the future. Diminishing demand for new barge construction may lead to a reduction in sales prices for new barges. The prices we have been able to charge for Jeffboat production have fluctuated historically based on a variety of factors including the cost of raw materials, the cost of labor and the demand for new barge builds compared to the barge manufacturing capacity within the industry at the time. During 2005 we began to increase the pricing on our barges, net of steel costs, in response to increased demand for new barge construction. Some of the contracts signed prior to that time (the “legacy contracts”), including any options exercised for additional barges, will negatively impact manufacturing segment margins due to their lower overall pricing structure. We plan to continue increasing the pricing on our barges, net of steel, in conjunction with the expected additional demand for new barge construction as well as inflation of our costs. As a percent of total production legacy contracts will decline in 2008 and beyond. If demand for new barge construction diminishes we may not be able to increase pricing over our current levels or maintain pricing at current levels. Higher fuel prices, if not recouped from our customers, could dramatically increase operating expenses and adversely affect profitability. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, fuel expenses and related fuel usage taxes represented 23% and 22% of transportation revenues, respectively. For the quarters ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, fuel expenses and related fuel usage taxes represented 24% and 20% of transportation revenues, respectively. Fuel prices are subject to fluctuation as a result of domestic and international events. Generally, our term contracts contain provisions that allow us to pass through (usually on a one month or one quarter delay) a significant portion of any fuel expense increase to our customers, thereby reducing, but not eliminating, our fuel price risk. Fuel price is a key, but not the only variable in spot market pricing. Therefore, fuel price and the timing of contractual rate adjustments can be a significant source of quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year volatility. Negotiated spot rates may not fully recover fuel price increases. 19 Table of Contents Our operating margins are impacted by certain low margin “legacy” contracts and by spot rate market volatility for grain volume and pricing. Our predecessor company emerged from bankruptcy in January, 2005. Our largest term contract for the movement of coal predates the emergence and was negotiated at a low margin. Though it contains a fuel adjustment mechanism, the mechanism may not fully recover increases in fuel cost. The majority of our coal moves since bankruptcy and through the 2015 expiration of this contract may be at a low margin. Additionally, contracts for barge manufacturing by our shipyard negotiated prior to 2006 also commit us to lower margins and more aggressive labor hour forecasts than we have recently achieved. Additionally, though the contracts contain steel price escalation clauses, only a portion adjust for increases in wage rates, which we have experienced since they were signed. If we are unable to improve our performance against the labor hour forecasts these contracts may reduce margins or inhibit margin improvements from our manufacturing division. These two concentrations of low margin business were approximately $155 million, $192 million and $185 million of our total revenues in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. The combined legacy contract amounts in 2008 are expected to be slightly lower than 2007. All of our grain shipments since the beginning of 2006 were under spot market contracts. Spot rates can vary widely from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. The available pricing and the volume under such contracts is impacted by many factors including global economic conditions and business cycles, domestic agricultural production and demand, international agricultural production and demand, foreign exchange rates and fluctuation of ocean freight rate spreads between the Gulf of Mexico and the Pacific Northwest. The revenues generated under such contracts, therefore, ultimately may not cover inflation, particularly for wages and fuel, in any given period. The most current forecasts for 2008 grain spot rates indicate that they may be flat to down from the rates obtained during 2007. We expect higher costs for wages and fuel. These circumstances may reduce the margins we are able to produce on the grain movements which we are able to contract during 2008. Grain movements were 27%, 32% and 25% of our transportation revenues in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. We expect grain to continue to decline as a percent of revenue in 2008. The legacy contracts combined with the potential impact of the grain spot market may lead to declines in our operating margins which could reduce our profitability. We are subject to adverse weather and river conditions. Our barging operations are affected by weather and river conditions. Varying weather patterns can affect river levels, contribute to fog delays and cause ice to form in certain river areas of the United States. For example, the Upper Mississippi River closes annually from approximately mid-December to mid-March, and ice conditions can hamper navigation on the upper reaches of the Illinois River during the winter months. During hurricane season in the summer and early fall, we may be subject to revenue loss, business interruptions and equipment and facilities damage, particularly in the Gulf region. In addition, adverse river conditions can affect towboat speed, tow size and loading drafts and can delay barge movements. Terminals may also experience operational interruptions as a result of weather or river conditions. Jeffboat’s waterfront facility is subject to occasional flooding. Jeffboat’s manufacturing operation, much of which is conducted outdoors, is also subject to weather conditions. As a result, these operations are subject to production schedule delays or added costs to maintain production schedules caused by weather. Seasonal fluctuations in industry demand could adversely affect our operating results, cash flow and working capital requirements. Segments of the inland barging business are seasonal. Historically, our revenue and profits have been lower during the first six months of the year and higher during the last six months of the year. This seasonality is due primarily to the timing of the North American grain harvest and seasonal weather patterns. Our working capital requirements typically track the rise and fall of our revenue and profits throughout the year. As a result, adverse market or operating conditions during the last six months of a calendar year could disproportionately adversely affect our operating results, cash flow and working capital requirements for the year. 20 Table of Contents The aging infrastructure on the Inland Waterways may lead to increased costs and disruptions in our operations. Many of the dams and locks on the Inland Waterways were built early in the last century, and their age makes them costly to maintain and susceptible to unscheduled maintenance outages. Much of this infrastructure needs to be replaced, but federal government funding of the 50% share not funded through fuel user taxes on barge operators for new projects has historically been limited. In addition, though the current annual government funding levels are near the average anticipated annual need for the foreseeable future, there can be no guarantee that these levels will be sustained and that a larger portion of infrastructure maintenance costs will not be imposed on operators. The delays caused by malfunctioning dams and locks may increase our operating costs and delay the delivery of our cargoes. Moreover, increased diesel fuel user taxes could be imposed in the future to fund necessary infrastructure improvements, increasing our expenses. We may not be able to recover increased fuel user taxes through pricing increases that may occur. The inland barge transportation industry is highly competitive; increased competition could adversely affect us. The inland barge transportation industry is highly competitive. Increased competition in the future could result in a significant increase in available shipping capacity on the Inland Waterways, which could create downward rate pressure for us or result in our loss of business. Global trade agreements, tariffs and subsidies could decrease the demand for imported and exported goods, adversely affecting the flow of import and export tonnage through the Port of New Orleans and the demand for barging services. The volume of goods imported through the Port of New Orleans is affected by subsidies or tariffs imposed by U.S. or foreign governments. Demand for U.S. grain exports may be affected by the actions of foreign governments and global or regional economic developments. Foreign subsidies and tariffs on agricultural products affect the pricing of and the demand for U.S. agricultural exports. U.S. and foreign trade agreements can also affect demand for U.S. agricultural exports as well as goods imported into the United States. Similarly, national and international embargoes of the agricultural products of the United States or other countries may affect demand for U.S. agricultural exports. Additionally, the strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies can impact import and export demand. These events, all of which are beyond our control, could reduce the demand for our services. Our failure to comply with government regulations affecting the barging industry, or changes in these regulations, may cause us to incur significant expenses or affect our ability to operate. The barging industry is subject to various laws and regulations, including international treaties, conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations and the laws and regulations of the flag nations of vessels, all of which are subject to amendment or changes in interpretation. In addition, various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies require barge operators to obtain and maintain permits, licenses and certificates respecting their operations. Any significant changes in laws or regulations affecting the inland barge industry, or in the interpretation thereof, could cause us to incur significant expenses. Recently enacted regulations call for increased inspection of towboats. Interpretation of the new regulations could result in boat delay and significantly increased maintenance and upgrade costs for our boat fleet. Furthermore, failure to comply with current or future laws and regulations may result in the imposition of fines and/or restrictions or prohibitions on our ability to operate. Though we work actively with regulators at all levels to avoid inordinate impairment of our continued operations, regulations and their interpretations may ultimately have a negative impact on the industry. Regulation such as the Transportation Worker Identification Credential provisions of the Homeland Security legislation could have an impact on the ability of domestic ports to efficiently move cargoes. This could ultimately slow operations and increase costs. 21 Table of Contents The Jones Act restricts foreign ownership of our stock, and the repeal, suspension or substantial amendment of the Jones Act could increase competition on the Inland Waterways and have a material adverse effect on our business. The Jones Act requires that, to be eligible to operate a vessel transporting non-proprietary cargo on the Inland Waterways, the company that owns the vessel must be at least 75% owned by U.S. citizens at each tier of its ownership. The Jones Act therefore restricts, directly or indirectly, foreign ownership interests in the entities that directly or indirectly own the vessels which we operate on the Inland Waterways. If we at any point cease to be 75% owned by U.S. citizens, we may become subject to penalties and risk forfeiture of our Inland Waterways operations. As of December 31, 2007, we are in compliance with the ownership requirements. The Jones Act continues to be in effect and supported by the U.S. Congress and the current administration. We cannot assure that the Jones Act will not be repealed, further suspended or amended in the future. If the Jones Act was to be repealed, suspended or substantially amended and, as a consequence, competitors with lower operating costs were to enter the Inland Waterways market, our business likely would be materially adversely affected. In addition, our advantages as a U.S.-citizen operator of Jones Act vessels could be eroded over time as there continue to be periodic efforts and attempts by foreign investors to circumvent certain aspects of the Jones Act. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our aging fleet of dry cargo barges may lead to increased costs and disruptions in our operations. The average life expectancy of a dry cargo barge is 25 to 30 years. We anticipate that without further investment and repairs by the end of 2010 approximately half of our current dry cargo barges will have reached the end of their economic useful lives. Once barges begin to reach 25 years of age the cost to maintain and operate them may be so high that it is more economical for the barges to be scrapped. If such barges are not scrapped, additional operating costs to repair and maintain them would likely reduce cash flows and earnings. If such barges are scrapped and not replaced, revenue, earnings and cash flows may decline. Though we anticipate future capital investment in dry cargo barges, we may choose not to replace all barges that we may scrap with new barges based on uncertainties related to financing, timing and shipyard availability. If such barges are replaced, significant capital outlays would be required. If the number of barges declines over time, our ability to maintain our hauling capacity will be decreased unless we can improve the utilization of the fleet. If these improvements in utilization are not achieved, revenue, earnings and cash flow could decline. We may not be successful in our plans to upgrade our production lines in our shipyard and realize increased levels of capacity and efficiency. In 2006 and 2007 we invested significant capital in upgrading and retooling our shipyard. The upgrades and retooling may not ultimately work as planned. These projects, though designed to increase our efficiency and reduce our exposure to weather delays and expedite production capacity, may not generate the level of cost savings that we estimate and may not expedite our capacity. Significant additional capital may be required to maintain existing production capacity and may delay our ability to modify or augment our current upgrade plans. These delays and additional expenditures may adversely affect our ability to meet production schedules for external and internal builds and our results of operations. Our plans for our transportation business capital investment and organic growth are predicated on efficiency improvements which we expect to achieve through a variety of initiatives, including reduction in stationary days, better power utilization and improved fleeting, among others. We may not ultimately be able to drive efficiency to the level to achieve our current forecast of tonnage without investing additional capital or incurring additional costs. We believe that our initiatives will result in improvements in efficiency allowing us to move more tonnage per barge. If we do not fully achieve these efficiencies, or do not achieve them as quickly as we plan, 22 Table of Contents we will need to incur higher repair expenses to maintain fleet size by maintaining older barges or invest new capital as we replace retiring capacity. Either of these options would adversely affect our results of operations. Our cash flows and borrowing facilities may not be adequate for our additional capital needs and, if we incur additional borrowings, our future cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest and principal of our substantial indebtedness. Our operations are capital intensive and require significant capital investment. We intend to fund substantially all of our needs to operate the business and make capital expenditures, including adequate investment in our aging boat and barge fleet, through operating cash flows and borrowings. We may need more capital than may be available under the revolving credit facility and therefore we would be required either to (a) seek to increase the availability under the revolving credit facility or (b) obtain other sources of financing. If we incur additional indebtedness, the risk that our future cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our substantial indebtedness would increase. We may not be able to increase the availability under the revolving credit facility or to obtain other sources of financing on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, we may be required to curtail our capital expenditures and we may not be able to invest in our aging barge fleet and to meet our obligations, including our obligations to pay the principal and interest under our indebtedness. Our substantial borrowings are currently all tied to floating interest rates which may expose us to higher interest payments should LIBOR or the prime rate increase substantially. At December 31, 2007, we had $439.0 million of floating rate debt outstanding, which represented the outstanding balance of the revolving credit facility. Each 100 basis point increase in interest rates, at our existing debt level, would increase our cash interest expense by approximately $4.4 million annually. We face the risk of breaching financial covenants in our credit agreement. Our credit agreement contains financial covenants, including a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization. Although we believe none of our covenants are considered restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreement. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our credit agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If the lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit. As part of our growth strategy, we may continue to make selective acquisitions, the integration and consolidation of which may disrupt operations and could negatively impact our business, including our margins. Growing the business through acquisitions involves risks of maintaining the continuity of the acquired business, including its personnel and customer base; achievement of expected synergies, economies of scale and cost reduction; adequacy of returns from the acquired business to fund incremental debt or capital costs arising from its acquisition; and possible assumption of unanticipated costs or liabilities related to the acquired business. Integrating and consolidating the operations and personnel of acquired businesses into our existing operations may result in difficulties and expense, disrupt our business and divert management’s time and attention. As a result of these risks, there can be no assurance that any future acquisition will be successful or that it will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of one or more key customers, or material nonpayment or nonperformance by one or more of our key customers, would have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. In 2007, our largest customer, Cargill, accounted for approximately 6% of our revenue, and our largest ten customers accounted for approximately 28% of our revenue. If we were to lose one or more of our large customers, or if one or more of our large customers were to significantly reduce the amount of barging 23 Table of Contents services they purchased from us and we were unable to redeploy that equipment on similar terms, or if one or more of our key customers failed to pay or perform, we could experience a significant loss of revenue. A major accident or casualty loss at any of our facilities could significantly reduce production One or more of our facilities may experience a major accident and may be subject to unplanned events such as explosions, fires, inclement weather, acts of God and transportation interruptions. Any shutdown or interruption of a facility could reduce the production from that facility and could prevent us from conducting our business for an indefinite period of time at that facility, which could substantially impair our business. For example, such an occurrence at our Jeffboat facility could disrupt or shut down our manufacturing activities. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover our resulting losses. Our transportation division employees are covered by federal maritime laws that may subject us to job-related claims in addition to those provided by state laws. Many of our employees are covered by federal maritime laws, including provisions of the Jones Act, the Longshore and Harbor Workers Act and the Seaman’s Wage Act. These laws typically operate to make liability limits established by state workers’ compensation laws inapplicable to these employees and to permit these employees and their representatives to pursue actions against employers for job-related injuries in federal court. Because we are not generally protected by the limits imposed by state workers’ compensation statutes for these employees, we may have greater exposure for any claims made by these employees than is customary in the individual states. We have experienced work stoppages by union employees in the past, and future work stoppages may disrupt our services and adversely affect our operations. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 1,207 employees were represented by unions. Most of these unionized employees (approximately 1,188 individuals) are represented by General Drivers, Warehousemen and Helpers, Local Union No. 89, affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America (“Teamsters”), at our Jeffboat shipyard facility under a three-year collective bargaining agreement that expires in April 2010. Our remaining unionized employees (approximately 20 positions) are represented by the International Union of United Mine Workers of America, District 12-Local 2452 at ACL Transportation Services LLC in St. Louis, Missouri under a collective bargaining agreement that expired in November 2007. We are continuing to negotiate with UMW for a successor agreement but cannot predict when or if a new agreement will be reached. Although we believe that our relations with our employees and with the recognized labor unions are generally good, we cannot assure that we will not be subject to work stoppages or other labor disruption in the future. The loss of key personnel, including highly skilled and licensed vessel personnel, could adversely affect our business. We believe that our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and to operate profitably depends on the continued employment of our senior management team and other key personnel, including highly skilled and licensed vessel personnel. Specifically, experienced vessel operators, including captains, are not quickly replaceable and the loss of high-level vessel employees over a short period of time could impair our ability to fully man all of our vessels. If key employees depart, we may have to incur significant costs to replace them. Our ability to execute our business model could be impaired if we cannot replace them in a timely manner. Therefore, any loss or reduction in the number of such key personnel could adversely affect our future operating results. Failure to comply with environmental, health and safety regulations could result in substantial penalties and changes to our operations. Our operations, facilities, properties and vessels are subject to extensive and evolving laws and regulations. These laws pertain to air emissions; water discharges; the handling and disposal of solid and 24 Table of Contents hazardous materials and oil and oil-related products, hazardous substances and wastes; the investigation and remediation of contamination; and health, safety and the protection of the environment and natural resources. As a result, we are involved from time to time in administrative and legal proceedings related to environmental, health and safety matters and have in the past and will continue to incur costs and other expenditures relating to such matters. In addition to environmental laws that regulate our ongoing operations, we are also subject to environmental remediation liability. Under federal and state laws, we may be liable as a result of the release or threatened release of hazardous substances or wastes or other pollutants into the environment at or by our facilities, properties or vessels, or as a result of our current or past operations, including facilities to which we have shipped wastes. These laws, such as CERCLA, RCRA and OPA 90, typically impose liability and cleanup responsibility without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the release or threatened release. Even if more than one person may be liable for the investigation and release or threatened release, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held wholly responsible for all of the investigation and cleanup costs. In addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damage based on personal injury, property damage or other costs, including investigation and cleanup costs, resulting from environmental contamination. As of December 31, 2007 we were involved in the several matters relating to the investigation or remediation of locations where hazardous materials have or might have been released or where we or our vendors have arranged for the disposal of wastes. These matters include situations in which we have been named or are believed to be a potentially responsible party under applicable federal and state laws. As of December 31, 2007, we had no reserves for these environmental matters. Any cash expenditures required to comply with applicable environmental laws or to pay for any remediation efforts will therefore result in charges to earnings. We may incur future costs related to the sites associated with the environmental issues, and any significant additional costs could adversely affect our financial condition. The discovery of additional sites, the modification of existing laws or regulations or the promulgation of new laws or regulations, more vigorous enforcement by regulators, the imposition of joint and several liability under CERCLA or analogous state laws or OPA 90 and other unanticipated events could also result in a material adverse effect. We are subject to, and may in the future be subject to disputes, or legal or other proceedings that could involve significant expenditures by us. The nature of our business exposes us to the potential for disputes or legal or other proceedings from time to time relating to labor and employment matters, personal injury and property damage, product liability matters, environmental matters, tax matters and other matters. Specifically, we are subject to claims on cargo damage from our customers and injury claims from our vessel personnel. These disputes, individually or collectively, could affect our business by distracting our management from the operation of our business. If these disputes develop into proceedings, these proceedings, individually or collectively, could involve significant expenditures. We are currently involved in several environmental matters. See “Legal Proceedings — Environmental Litigation.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 