1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business We have incurred net losses in the past. We have a history of operating losses and have incurred significant net losses in each fiscal quarter since our inception. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had gross revenues of $6.4 million and $2.8 million, respectively, and incurred net losses of $7.5 million and $6.1 million respectively. We will need to generate significant additional revenue to achieve profitability. While management believes that we may achieve profitability in the second part of 2011, there can be no assurance that we will. Our ability to generate and sustain significant additional revenues or achieve profitability will depend upon numerous factors outside of our control, including the market acceptance of our bio-based resins, future cost trends for our key raw materials and competitive products, and general economic conditions. We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our financial performance and prospects. We only commenced the marketing and commercial sale of our products within the past four years, and continue to develop and launch new bio-based resins. We are, therefore, subject to all of the risks inherent in a new business enterprise, as well as those inherent in a rapidly developing industry. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our financial performance and prospects. There can be no assurance that in the future we will generate revenues, operate profitably or that we will have adequate working capital to meet our obligations as they become due. Because of our limited financial history, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations will not be meaningful in the short term and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. 10 In the current economic environment we will be required to raise additional capital to fund our growth, research and development efforts, marketing programs, enhancement of our production capacity, as well as our continuing operations and have been successful at doing so. Our capital requirements depend on several factors, including: • the speed at which our products are accepted into the market; • the level of spending to increase and enhance manufacturing capacity; • costs of recruiting and retaining qualified personnel; • the level of research and development and market commercialization spending; and • the necessity to acquire additional manufacturing capacity Additional capital will be required to continue to fund our research and development efforts as well as our continuing operations. There can be no assurance that additional sources of financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our research and development efforts, take advantage of opportunities, develop products or technologies or otherwise respond to competitive pressures will be impaired. The commercial success of our business depends on the widespread market acceptance of products manufactured with our bio-based resins. Although there is a developed market for petroleum-based plastics, the market for plastics produced with our environmentally friendly bio-based resins is still developing. Our success depends on consumer acceptance of these plastic products as well as the success of the commercialization of plastics produced with our bio-based resins by third parties. At present, it is difficult to assess or predict with any assurance the potential size, timing and viability of market opportunities for our product in the plastics market. The traditional plastics market sector is well-established with entrenched competitors with whom we must compete. Pricing for traditional plastics has been highly volatile in recent years, and moved rapidly from conditions which are more supportive of bioplastics to environments which are less favorable (like the present). While we expect to be able to command a premium price for our environmentally sustainable products, a widening gap in the pricing for bioplastics versus petroleum-based plastics may reduce the size of our addressable market in addition the growth of the market will create some pressure on price for applications today considered as commodities. We have only recently commenced industrial scale production of our bio-based resins and it is possible that some of our bio-based resins or plastic products made with our bio-based resins may not perform as well as other resins or traditional plastics. Individual products produced with our bio-based resins may not perform as well as traditional plastics. We are still developing and improving many of our bio-based resins and are continuing to evaluate the performance in specific applications. If we fail to develop bio-based resins that allow products made with our bio-based resins to perform comparably to traditional plastics, this could cause consumers to prefer alternative products. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property and proprietary rights and may be required to expend significant amounts of money and time in attempting to protect these rights. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our competitive position in the market could suffer. Our intellectual property consists of patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trade dress and trademarks. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our other intellectual property for our technologies and products in the U.S. and in other countries. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S., and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting their proprietary rights in these foreign countries. These problems may be caused by, among other factors, a lack of rules and methods for defending intellectual property rights. Our future commercial success requires us not to infringe on patents and proprietary rights of third parties, or breach any licenses or other agreements that we have entered into with respect to our technologies, products and businesses. The enforceability of patent positions cannot be predicted with certainty. We will apply for patents covering both our technologies and our products, if any, as we deem appropriate. Patents, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. There can be no assurance that no other relevant patents have been issued that could block our ability to obtain patents or to operate as we would like. Others may develop similar technologies or may duplicate technologies developed by us. 11 We are not currently a party to any litigation with respect to any of our patent positions. However, if we become involved in litigation or interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or other intellectual property proceedings outside of the U.S., we might have to spend significant amounts of money to defend our intellectual property rights. If any of our competitors file patent applications or obtain patents that claim inventions or other rights also claimed by us, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the relevant patent regulatory agency to determine priority of invention and our right to a patent of these inventions in the U.S. Even if the outcome is favorable, such proceedings might result in substantial costs to us, including, significant legal fees and other expenses, diversion of management time and disruption of our business. Even if successful on priority grounds, an interference proceeding may result in loss of claims based on patentability grounds raised in the interference proceeding. Uncertainties resulting from initiation and continuation of any patent or related litigation also might harm our ability to continue our research or to bring products to market. An adverse ruling arising out of any intellectual property dispute, including an adverse decision as to the priority of our inventions would undercut or invalidate our intellectual property position. An adverse ruling also could subject us to significant liability for damages, prevent us from using certain processes or products, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with third parties. Furthermore, necessary licenses may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, or at all. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. To protect our proprietary technologies and processes, we rely on trade secret protection as well as on formal legal devices such as patents. Although we have taken security measures to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, these measures may not provide adequate protection for such information. Our policy is to execute confidentiality and proprietary information agreements with each of our employees and consultants upon the commencement of an employment or consulting arrangement with us. These agreements generally require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not be disclosed to third parties. These agreements also generally provide that technology conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our exclusive property. Even though these agreements are in place there can be no assurances that that trade secrets and proprietary information will not be disclosed, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets, or that we can fully protect our trade secrets and proprietary information. Violations by others of our confidentiality agreements and the loss of employees who have specialized knowledge and expertise could harm our competitive position and cause our sales and operating results to decline as a result of increased competition. Costly and time-consuming litigation might be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection might adversely affect our ability to continue our research or bring products to market. Management and affiliates own enough shares to have a substantial impact on shareholder vote which could cause us to take action that may not be in the best interest of all shareholders. As of March 29, 2011, our executive officers and directors, and entities controlled by or affiliated with them or the Company, own in aggregate approximately 20.9% of the outstanding common stock. As a result, this group of stockholders have a substantial impact on the vote on matters that require stockholder approval, such as election of directors, approval of a corporate merger, increasing or decreasing the number of authorized shares, adopting corporate benefit plans, effecting a stock split, amending our Certificate of Incorporation or other material corporate actions, and these shareholders could cause the us to take action that may not be in the best interest of all shareholders. Given our limited resources, we may not effectively manage our growth. Our growth and expansion plan, which includes targeting high-growth segments with commercial products, supporting converter partners and working with brand owners in the adoption of bio-based plastics to enlarge our customer base, expanding our manufacturing capabilities, strengthening our product leadership by developing new formulations in conjunction with customer demands and pursuing strategic alliances, requires significant management time and operational and financial resources. There is no assurance that we have the necessary operational and financial resources to manage our growth. This is especially true as we expand facilities and manufacture our products on a larger commercial scale. In addition, rapid growth in our headcount and operations may place a significant strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Failure to adequately manage our growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the quoted price of our common stock. Established product manufacturers could improve the ability to recycle their existing products or develop new environmentally preferable products which could render our technology less competitive. Several paper and plastic disposable packaging manufacturers and converters and others have made efforts to increase the recycling of their products. Increased recycling of paper and plastic products could lessen their harmful environmental impact, one major basis upon which we compete. 12 Many potential competitors who have greater resources and experience than we do may develop products and technologies that compete with ours. A number of these companies, including BASF, DuPont, Novamont, NatureWorks and Telles, have introduced or are in the process of introducing both bio-based resins and/or compostable synthetic-based resins. We view the threat from this competition as low. Just as a wide variety of different petroleum-based polymers and resins currently serve the needs of the plastic market, we believe that the various resins and polymers offer different properties and are targeted at different applications, making them more complementary and thus broadening the universe of applications for bio-based and compostable plastics. As the bioplastic industry grows, the demand for biopolymers grows as well, creating more uncertainty with respect to access to critical components of our process. One of our suppliers, NatureWorks, LLC, currently produces the majority of the prime grade PLA in the United States, and we currently rely on NatureWorks, LLC for a substantial portion of our PLA requirements. For the year ended December 31, 2010, PLA accounted for 23.2% of our total raw material cost of goods sold. If we lose NatureWorks, LLC as a supplier it could delay the commercial introduction, hinder market acceptance of these resins and increase the cost of these resins and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We continue to develop alternative feedstock to PLA and evaluate additional PLA sources to support some of our Compostables® Resins, which incorporate prime grade PLA. Cereplast Hybrid Resins ® do not depend on PLA. We also rely on several grades of copolyester supplied by companies such as BASF Corporation, Perstop, and Wacker in manufacturing some of our Compostables resins. If we lose any of these suppliers, or if there are disruptions in the supply chain, the price of these resins may increase or the sales of these resins may be delayed and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Fluctuations in the costs of our raw materials and competitive products could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations are directly affected by the cost of our raw materials. Our Compostables resins are based in large part on polylactic acid, a renewable polymer manufactured from an agricultural feedstock (corn sugar). Our ability to offset the effect of raw material prices by increasing sales prices is uncertain. A further increase in the price differential between agricultural-based raw materials relative to petroleum-based plastics could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial position. Historically, a primary driver for the growth of the bioplastics market has been the rising and increasingly volatile cost of oil, which has narrowed the cost gap between traditional and bio-based plastics, and expectations of sustained large hydrocarbon price increases over the long term which would further enhance the competitiveness of our products. Prices and demand for traditional plastics have collapsed in recent months due to global economic conditions; this in turn has affected the interest in bioplastics by certain market sectors and reduced our relative competitiveness. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we had two significant customers that accounted for 62.9% of total sales. The loss of these customers could adversely affect our short-term sales and profitability. During the year ended December 31, 2010 two customers accounted for 62.9% of our total sales. If these customers elect not to continue purchasing products from us, we may not be able to find other customers whose requirements for our products are as significant. Accordingly, the loss of these significant customers may adversely affect our near-term business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risks generally associated with companies that operate in a global environment, which could affect our growth and financial performance. Approximately 77% of our 2010 gross sales and 11% of our 2009 gross sales were generated from export sales to customers outside of North America and thus we are subject to risks inherent in multinational business environments. Those risks include: • compliance with U.S. laws affecting operations outside of the U.S., such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, • compliance with a variety of local regulations and laws, • changes in tax laws and the interpretation of those laws, • disruptions in ocean container shipping routes, • fluctuations in currency values, • sudden changes in foreign currency exchange controls, • discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies, • difficulties enforcing intellectual property and contractual rights in certain jurisdictions, • greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles, • imposition of more or new tariff, quotas, trade barriers, and similar restrictions on our sales outside the U.S. Moreover, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations. All of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, and could materially and adversely affect our product sales and results of operations. Our operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The manufacture, sale and use of resins are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”). The FDA’s regulations are concerned with substances used in food packaging materials, not with specific finished food packaging products. Thus, food and beverage containers are in compliance with FDA regulations if the components used in the food and beverage containers: (i) are approved by the FDA as indirect food additives for their intended uses and comply with the applicable FDA indirect food additive regulations; or (ii) are generally recognized as safe for their intended uses and are of suitable purity for those intended uses. We believe that our resins are in compliance with all FDA requirements. Failure to comply with FDA regulations could subject us to administrative, civil or criminal penalties. Regulatory changes applicable to us, or the products in our end-use markets, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We and many of the applications for the products in the end-use markets in which we sell our products are regulated by various national and local regulations. Changes in those regulations could result in additional compliance costs, seizures, confiscations, recall or monetary fines, any of which could prevent or inhibit the development, distribution and sale of our products. 13 We may be liable for damages based on product liability claims brought against our customers in our end-use markets. Many of our products may provide critical performance attributes to our customers’ products that will be sold to end users who could potentially bring product liability suits in which we could be named as a defendant. The sale of these products involves the risk of product liability claims. If a person were to bring a product liability suit against one of our customers, this customer may attempt to seek contribution from us. A person may also bring a product liability claim directly against us. We have acquired product liability coverage of up to $7.0 million. A successful product liability claim or series of claims against us in excess of our insurance coverage for payments, for which we are not otherwise indemnified, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could hurt our business and inhibit our ability to operate and grow successfully. Our success in the competitive markets in which we operate will continue to depend to a significant extent on our leadership and other key management and technical personnel. We may not be able to retain our current management personnel or to recruit qualified individuals to join our management team. The loss of any key individual could have a material adverse effect on our business. Disruptions of continuous operation of our new Seymour bioplastic production facility could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We lease a facility and site in Seymour, Indiana, where we have constructed a new bioplastic production facility. Completed in March 2010, we have consolidated all core manufacturing activities from California to the Seymour site resulting in significant cost, productivity and quality enhancements. We believe we will need to add additional production capacity in the near future as the current development of the market seems to call for full capacity of our Seymour facility to be reached within 24 months, and would need approximately an additional nine to 16 months to set up additional capacity, depending on the location. If we are unable to set up and finance such additional facility, we may experience some disruption in our growth. Downturns in general economic conditions could adversely affect our profitability. Downturns in general economic conditions can cause fluctuations in demand for our products, product prices, volumes and margins. Future economic conditions may not be favorable to our industry. A decline in the demand for our products or a shift to lower-margin products due to deteriorating economic conditions could adversely affect sales of our products and our profitability and could also result in impairments of certain of our assets. Risks related to our common stock We may fail to qualify for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market which could make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares. In April 2010, our common stock was approved for listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market and continues to be listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. There can be no assurance that trading of our common stock on such market will be sustained or that we can meet NASDAQ’s continued listing standards. In the event that our common stock fails to qualify for continued inclusion, our common stock could thereafter be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board or the Pink Sheets. Under such circumstances, shareholders may find it more difficult to sell, or to obtain accurate quotations, for our common stock, and our common stock would become substantially less attractive to certain purchasers such as financial institutions, hedge funds and other similar investors. Our common stock may be affected by limited trading volume and price fluctuations which could adversely impact the value of our common stock. Trading in our common stock can fluctuate significantly and there can be no assurance that an active trading market will either develop or be maintained. Our common stock is expected to continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This trading activity could adversely affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, we believe that factors such as quarterly fluctuations in our financial results and changes in the overall economy or the condition of the financial markets could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. These fluctuations may also cause short sellers to periodically enter the market in the belief that our stock price will decline in the future. We cannot predict the actions of market participants or the stock market as a whole. We can offer no assurances that the market for our common stock will be stable or that our stock price will fluctuate in a manner that is consistent with our operating results. 14 We have not and do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock. We have paid no dividends on our common stock to date and it is not anticipated that any dividends will be paid to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. While our future dividend policy will be based on the operating results and capital needs of the business, it is currently anticipated that any earnings will be retained to finance our future expansion and for the implementation of our business plan. As an investor, you should take note of the fact that a lack of a dividend can further affect the market value of our stock, and could significantly affect the value of any investment in our Company. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with terms that may not be beneficial to common stock holders. Our articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of preferred shares which may be issued with dividend, liquidation, voting and redemption rights senior to our common stock without prior approval by the stockholders. The preferred stock may be issued for such consideration as may be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may issue such shares of preferred stock in one or more series, with such designations, preferences and rights or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof as shall be stated in the resolution of resolutions. The issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power and other rights of the holders of common stock. Preferred stock may be issued quickly with terms calculated to discourage, make more difficult, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company or make removal of management more difficult. As a result, the Board of Directors’ ability to issue preferred stock may discourage the potential hostile acquirer, possibly resulting in beneficial negotiations. Negotiating with an unfriendly acquirer may result in, among other things, terms more favorable to us and our stockholders. Conversely, the issuance of preferred stock may adversely affect any market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of the common stock. We presently have no plans to issue any preferred stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 