ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and prospects, and the prevailing market price and performance of our common stock, may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the matters discussed below. Certain statements and information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as other written or oral statements made from time to time by us or by our authorized officers on our behalf, constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” 13 Table of Contents “plans,” “seeks,” “projects,” “will,” “would,” and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. We intend for our forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and we set forth this statement in order to comply with such safe harbor provisions. You should note that our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or when made and we undertake no duty or obligation to update or revise our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Although we believe that the expectations, plans, intentions, and projections reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, such statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. The risks, uncertainties, and other factors that our stockholders and prospective investors should consider include, but are not limited to, the following: If we do not become profitable and/or generate positive cash flows from operations and are unable to secure additional financing we are at risk of continuing as a going concern We cannot be certain when anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our ongoing operating and capital requirements. Our belief is based on our operating plan, which in turn is based on assumptions that may prove to be incorrect. If our financial resources are insufficient we may require additional financing in order to execute our operating plan and continue as a going concern. We cannot predict whether this additional financing will be in the form of equity, debt, or another form. We may not be able to obtain the necessary additional capital on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all. In any of these events, we may be unable to implement our current operating plans, repay our liability obligations as they become due or respond to competitive pressures, any of which circumstances would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. If the share price of BIDZ trades below $1.00 per share for an extended period of time we may be delisted from NASDAQ and trade on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board We cannot be certain if the share price of BIDZ will trade above $1.00 per share. The share price of BIDZ traded below $1.00 for 30 consecutive days and we were issued a notice of deficiency on August 12, 2011. If we are unable to remedy the deficiency over a 180 days compliance period and subsequently extended for another 180 days to August 6, 2012, we could be delisted from NASDAQ and we will have to trade on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board. Adverse domestic and global economic conditions or the perception of said conditions may have adverse effects on our operating results. The continued success of our business depends on the willingness of our customers to spend in a discretionary manner. Jewelry is essentially perceived as a luxury good. If the economy is weak it will cause people to feel less comfortable purchasing discretionary goods and would cause a negative effect on our operating results. Our annual and quarterly operating results may vary significantly in the future based on economic factors over which we have little or no control. Because we have little or no control over these factors and/or their magnitude, our operating results are difficult to predict. Any substantial adverse change in economic factors could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Our business has been and may continue to be significantly impacted by worldwide economic conditions and the current uncertainty in the outlook for the global economy makes it more likely that our actual results will differ materially from expectations. Global financial markets have been experiencing extreme disruptions in recent years, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, poor consumer confidence, slow economic growth, high unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. There can be no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in economic conditions. These economic uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. The current tight credit in financial markets may lead consumers to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to reduce purchases of our products. Demand for for our products is a function of the health of the economies in the United States and around the world. Since the US economy and other economies around the world still face uncertain growth, the demand for our products has been and may continue to be adversely affected and therefore, demand for our products and our operating results have been and may continue to be adversely affected as well. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic disruption or subsequent economic recovery, worldwide, in the United States, in our industry, or in the retail market. These and other economic factors have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. 14 Table of Contents Our future operating results are highly dependent upon how well we manage our business to respond to economic conditions. Our annual and quarterly operating results may fluctuate based on how well we manage our business to respond to the economy. Some of these factors include but are not limited to the following: · our ability to manage our sales and marketing efforts; · our ability to structure our organization to achieve our operating objectives, · our ability to meet the needs of our customers; and · our ability to manage expenses and inventory levels. If we fail to manage our business effectively, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business may depend on our ability to successfully introduce and expand new product offerings, including those on modnique.com Our ability to significantly increase our net sales and returning to profitability may depend on our ability to successfully introduce and expand new product lines beyond our current offerings. In February 2010, we launched modnique.com, that is focused on online retailing of designer products through a sale event concept. If we offer a new website such as modnique.com that is not well accepted by consumers, the Bidz.com brand and reputation could be adversely affected, our net sales may fall short of expectations and we may incur substantial expenses that are not offset by increased net sales. Introduction and expansion of new product lines may also strain our management and operational resources. The trading price in our common stock may be volatile and you may lose all or part of your investment. The market price of our common stock has been subject to significant price and volume fluctuations and these fluctuations could continue. Some factors that could affect the market price of our common stock are as follows: · actual or anticipated changes in our operating results, · our stock is subject to short selling and may cause trading in our common stock to be volatile, · our stock is subject to margin calls and may cause trading in our common stock to be volatile, · changes in research analysts’ recommendations or estimates of financial performance, · changes in market valuation of similar companies, economic and general market conditions, · announcements of significant contracts, company developments, commercial relationships, banking credit facilities, capital commitments, acquisitions or joint ventures, · issuance of additional shares of common stock or other securities, and · intellectual property or litigation developments. Quarterly financial results may not be consistent and impact our stock price. There are numerous influences on our quarterly financial results that extend beyond the normal seasonal trends. Fluctuations that are under our control include: our ability to influence the timing and quantity of items we place for auction; our decision to acquire merchandise at favorable prices; our expenditures on marketing and our ability to attract customer visits to our website. Fluctuations that are not under our control that may directly impact our quarterly financial results include: changes in market price for precious metals and gems; changes in consumers’ discretionary income and demand for our products; and changes in fashion trends. Repurchases of our common stock may not prove to be the best use of our cash resources. We have and may continue to repurchase shares of our common stock. Since the inception of our share repurchase program in June 2007, through December 31, 2011, we have repurchased 6.8 million shares for a total of approximately $21.7 million. Our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $33.5 million of our common stock and a total of $11.8 million remains available for repurchases. These repurchases and any repurchases we may make in the future may not prove to be at optimal prices and our use of cash for the stock repurchase program may not prove to be the best use of our cash resources and may adversely impact our future liquidity. 15 Table of Contents We have been and may continue to become the target of securities class action suits and derivative suits which could result in substantial costs and divert management attention and resources. Securities class action suits and derivative suits are often brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities, such as we experienced at the end of 2007. Defending against these suits, even if meritless, can result in substantial costs to us and could divert the attention of our management. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings, below. We may be at risk to accurately report financial results or detect fraud if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report that contains an assessment by management on the company’s internal control over financial reporting in their annual and quarterly reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q. While we are consistently working on improvements and conducting rigorous reviews of our internal controls over financial reporting, our independent auditors may interpret Section 404 requirements and apply related rules and regulations differently. If our independent auditors are not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or with the level at which it is documented, operated or reviewed, they may decline to accept management’s assessment. We are not required to have our independent auditors provide an attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting as we are not an “accelerated filer”. Additionally, if we are not able to meet all the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission. In conducting its assessment, our management concluded that there were material weaknesses, as defined in the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s Auditing Standard No. 5, in our disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009. We have implemented controls to remediate those material weaknesses during the year ended December 31, 2010 and management concluded that those material weaknesses were fully remediated at December 31, 2010. We cannot assure you that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Also, future changes in our accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory environment may create new areas of risk exposure. Failure to modify our existing control environment accordingly may impair our controls over financial reporting and cause our investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our financial reporting, which may adversely affect our stock price. We must continue to generate a high volume of visitor traffic to our website and convert those visitors into buyers. Our net revenue depends to a significant extent on the number of customers who visit our website to purchase merchandise and the dollar amount of their purchases. Generating increased traffic to our website and converting that traffic into buyers requires us to achieve effective results from our marketing campaigns; offer a wide variety of products that our customers can purchase at favorable prices; maintain a user-friendly shopping experience; ensure the satisfactory availability, performance, and reliability of our website, network infrastructure, and transaction processing systems; and provide high-quality customer service. Our business will be harmed if we are unable to maintain and increase our customer base and the dollar volume of the orders customers place with us. We are subject to “prank” bidding by persons who are not required to provide their identification. Presently, we do not require new users to our site to provide their identification upon registration. Consequently, from time to time we are subject to “prank” bidders who may win auctions but do not intend to purchase our merchandise. Although we re-auction merchandise not purchased by such bidders, a large number of failed auctions in which winning bidders do not complete their purchases could adversely affect our results of operations. We may face increasing costs to acquire new customers. The acquisition of new customers is a key factor in increasing demand for our products and increasing our revenue. We currently attract new customers by driving traffic to our website using a marketing and advertising strategy that includes targeted keyword searches, online banner advertising, targeted e-mail advertising, participation in affiliate programs, and our refer a friend program. We do not maintain long-term contracts or arrangements with any companies, including any search engines, Internet portals, or other websites, and we may not successfully enter into additional relationships or maintain existing ones. In addition, traffic to our website could decline if our online marketing programs become less effective or the traffic decreases from the search engines, Internet portals, and websites with which we advertise. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if any substantial number of companies on which we advertise experience financial or operational difficulties or experience other corporate developments that 16 Table of Contents adversely affect their performance. A failure to maintain or expand existing online advertising relationships or to establish additional online advertising relationships that generate a significant amount of traffic from other websites could result in decreased sales or affect our business. Our business will depend on our ability to maintain the popularity of our website, and we may not be able to do so effectively. We believe that continuing to increase the popularity of our website will be critical to our business. Promoting and positioning our website will depend largely on the success of our marketing efforts and our ability to provide a variety and sufficient quantity of products at attractive prices in a convenient manner. Promoting our website will require us to increase our marketing budget and otherwise increase our financial commitment to creating and maintaining brand loyalty among users. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, any increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building our website popularity and our brand. If we do attract new users to our website, they may not conduct transactions on a frequent basis or in sufficient dollar amounts. If we fail to promote and maintain our website or incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, our business would be harmed. We expanded our international sales activities, causing our business to become increasingly susceptible to numerous risks that could affect our profitability. In 2009, 2010 and 2011, 31.7%, 40.9% and 45.1%, respectively, of our net revenue was generated by shipments to customers outside of the United States. We have, over time, expanded our reach into international markets. We do not, however, currently have any overseas fulfillment, distribution, or server facilities. We cannot be certain that we will be able to expand our global presence. In addition, there are certain risks associated with doing business on an international basis, including regulatory requirements, legal uncertainty regarding liability, tariffs, and other trade barriers, longer payment cycles, and potentially adverse tax consequences, any of which could adversely affect our business. Although our foreign sales historically have been denominated in U.S. dollars, we also may be subject to increased risks relating to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations to the extent we decide to denominate our sales in foreign currencies. Customer complaints or negative publicity about our customer service could adversely affect our reputation and, as a result, our business could suffer. Customer complaints or negative publicity about our customer service could severely diminish consumer confidence and the use of our website. Effective customer service requires significant personnel expense, and this expense, if not managed properly, could significantly impact our profitability. The failure to manage or train our customer service representatives properly could compromise our ability to handle customer inquiries and complaints effectively. If we do not handle customer inquiries and complaints effectively, we may lose customer confidence. As a result, our revenue could suffer and our operating margin may decrease. We do not have a guaranteed supply of products, and we have a concentration of inventory purchases from our top two suppliers. The success of our business depends, in part, on our ability to offer our customers a wide variety of products that they can purchase at prices that are substantially below those of traditional retailers. We do not have any formal or binding supply agreements with any of our manufacturers, distributors, or other suppliers for our supply of products. As a result, we do not have a guaranteed supply of products at favorable prices. Our inability to maintain and expand our supply relationships or the inability of our suppliers to continue to supply us with products at favorable prices would substantially harm our business and results of operations. In addition, we have a concentration of inventory purchases from a small number of suppliers. Our top vendors based on the amount of purchases vary from quarter to quarter and year to year. The top two suppliers accounted for approximately 27.7%, 21.4% and 15.0% of our total purchases in 2009, 2010, and 2011, respectively. We may give substantial deposits of inventory to our manufacturing vendors to produce finished jewelry products. We may be at risk of loss for the diamonds, precious and semi-precious gems that we have given to our manufacturing vendors to produce into finished jewelry products. If the businesses of the vendors fail, the diamond inventory is lost or stolen, the vendors do not have adequate insurance coverage or if the vendors fail to produce and deliver finished jewelry products, we would incur substantial losses that would have a material impact on our net income and financial position. 17 Table of Contents Competition from online auctioneers and other online companies with greater brand recognition may adversely affect our sales. The market for online auctions is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. We expect competition to intensify further in the future. Barriers to entry are relatively low, and current and new competitors can launch new websites at relatively low cost using commercially available software. We currently compete with a number of other companies, and other competitors may appear in the future. Our competitors currently include various online auction services and retailers, including eBay, Blue Nile and Overstock. We also encounter competition from national jewelry retail chains, such as Zales, and Kay Jewelers, and mass retailers and other enterprises, such as Wal-Mart, Target, J. C. Penney, Costco, QVC, and Home Shopping Network. Many of our competitors have greater brand recognition, longer operating histories, larger customer bases, and significantly greater financial, marketing, and other resources than we do. Smaller competitors may enter into strategic or commercial relationships with larger, more established, and better financed companies. Other competitors may enter into exclusive distribution agreements with our suppliers that deny us access to suppliers’ products. Competitors may also devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns and to website and systems technology than we do. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or address increased competitive pressures. Furthermore, attempts have been made in the past to develop and market synthetic stones and gems to compete in the market for gemstones and gemstone jewelry. We expect such efforts to continue in the future. If any such efforts are successful in creating widespread demand for synthetic or alternative gemstone products, demand and price levels for our products could decline and our business and results of operations would be substantially harmed. We rely heavily on the sale of jewelry for our a substantial portion of our net revenue, and demand for these products could decline. Luxury products, such as jewelry, are discretionary purchases for consumers. The volume and dollar amount of such purchases may be affected by adverse trends in the general economy and consumer perceptions of those trends, and purchases may significantly decrease during economic downturns. The success of our business depends in part on macroeconomic factors, such as employment levels, salary levels, tax rates, and credit availability, all of which affect disposable income and consumer spending. Any reduction in disposable income or consumer spending may affect us more significantly than companies in other industries. Our net revenue and results of operations depend in part on the demand for jewelry. Consumers’ tastes are subject to frequent, significant, and sometimes unpredictable changes. Should prevailing consumer tastes for jewelry change or the demand for jewelry decrease, the sale of our products could decline and our business and results of operations would suffer. Furthermore, our ability to increase our net revenue and generate profits may depend on our ability to expand our product offerings beyond our current offerings. If we offer new products that are not accepted by customers, our brand and reputation could be adversely affected, our sales may fall short of expectations, and we may incur substantial expenses that are not offset by increased sales. Because we carry our products in inventory, our net revenue and gross margin may decrease if we are unable to predict and plan for changes in consumer demand. If our sales increase, we will be required to increase our inventory proportionately. Consumer tastes and preferences for our products can change rapidly, thereby exposing us to significant inventory risks. Currently, because the products we sell also consist of closeout merchandise from manufacturers, distributors, and other suppliers, we have less control over the specific items that we offer for sale than we would if we primarily ordered goods manufactured for us. In addition, it is important that we are able to purchase merchandise that we perceive to be in demand. The demand for specific products can change between the time we order items and when we sell them. As a result, we may be required to take significant inventory markdowns, which could reduce our gross margin, if we do not accurately predict these trends or if we overstock unpopular merchandise. We may be subject to a tax liability for past sales and our future sales may decrease if we are required to collect sales and use taxes on the products we sell. In accordance with current regulatory requirements and our interpretation of current law, we currently collect sales or other taxes with respect to shipments of goods into several states including California, New York, Rhode Island and North Carolina. However, additional states or foreign countries may seek to impose sales or other tax obligations on us in the future. A successful assertion by one or more states or foreign countries that we should be collecting sales or other taxes on the sale of our products could result in substantial tax liabilities for past and future sales, discourage customers from purchasing products from us, decrease our ability to compete with traditional retailers, and otherwise substantially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents We rely on suppliers and third-party carriers as part of our fulfillment process, and these third parties may fail to meet shipping schedules or requirements. We rely on suppliers to deliver our orders promptly, which we then carry in inventory to ensure availability and expedited delivery to our customers. We also rely on third-party carriers to ship our products to our customers. As a result, we are subject to various risks, including employee strikes and inclement weather, associated with the ability of third-party carriers to provide delivery services to meet our shipping needs and those of our suppliers. The failure of our suppliers and third-party carriers to deliver products to us or our customers in a timely manner or otherwise to serve us or our customers adequately would damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Increases in the cost of precious metals and precious and semi-precious stones would increase the cost of our jewelry products. The jewelry industry is affected by fluctuations in the prices of precious metals and precious and semi-precious stones. The availability and prices of gold, silver, platinum, and other precious metals and precious and semi-precious stones may be influenced by such factors as cartels, political instability in exporting countries, changes in global demand, and inflation. Shortages of these materials due to increase in demand or prices could reduce the quantity of products we have available for sale and our ability to sell our products for more than our cost, causing reduced sales or lower margins compared to our historical and expected sales and margins. The satisfactory availability, performance, and reliability of our website, network infrastructure, and transaction processing systems are critical to our ability to attract, retain, and service customers. Any problems with the availability, performance, or reliability of our website, network infrastructure, or transaction processing systems could result in decreased customer traffic, reduced orders, reduced order fulfillment performance, and lower net revenue as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation. In order to remain competitive, we must continually seek to improve and expand the functionality and features of our website, network infrastructure, transaction processing systems, and delivery and shipping functions to accommodate any substantial increase in the volume of traffic to and orders from our website. We may not be successful in these efforts, and we may not be able to project accurately the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of or sales from our website, or timely expand or upgrade our website, infrastructure, or systems to accommodate any such increases. Additionally, we may not be able to remedy any availability, performance, or reliability problems in a timely manner, or at all, because we depend in part on third parties for such availability, performance, and reliability. Our website and back-office servers are located at a third-party co-location facility operated by Savvis Inc. in El Segundo, CA which is vulnerable to fire, earthquakes, and similar events. Our business and results of operations would be harmed in the event of any failure of our auction and bidding systems hardware, which is located at a single third-party co-location facility, or any failure of our fulfillment and administrative hardware. Our business depends in part on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware. The servers and other hardware necessary to operate our website, including our auction and bidding systems, are located at a single third-party co-location facility in El Segundo, CA. We rely on that facility to provide Internet access with the speed, capacity, and reliability required to meet our customer traffic. Our servers and other hardware that run office administration tasks are located at our headquarters. Our servers and other hardware are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, fire, flood, significant power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, acts of war, break-ins, earthquakes, and similar events. We do not currently have fully redundant systems in multiple locations or a formal disaster recovery plan, and our business interruption insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for any losses that may occur. In addition, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of critical data, the inability to accept and fulfill customer orders, or the unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer data. System disruptions or failures would also create a large number of customer questions and complaints that need to be addressed by our customer service support personnel. The occurrence of any of the foregoing risks could substantially harm our business, reputation, and results of operations. Our ability to grow our business will be impaired by delays, interruptions, or failures of the Internet. Our success depends on the continued growth and maintenance of the Internet. The Internet has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, significant growth in the numbers of users and amount of traffic. If Internet usage continues to grow as anticipated, the infrastructure may not be able to support the level of usage and its performance and reliability may decline. If outages or delays on the Internet increase, overall Internet usage could grow more slowly or decline. In addition, the performance of the Internet may be harmed by increased number of users or bandwidth requirements or by viruses, worms, and similar issues. The Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure, and it could face outages and delays in the future. These outages and delays could reduce the level of Internet usage. 19 Table of Contents Various legal rules and regulations related to privacy and the collection, dissemination, and security of personal information may adversely affect our marketing efforts. We are subject to increasing regulation at the federal, state, and international levels relating to privacy and the use of personal user information designed to protect the privacy of personally identifiable information as well as to protect against its misuse. These laws include the Federal Trade Commission Act, the CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, FCC regulations, the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, CA SB 1389, HIPAA, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Homeland Security Act, and related regulations. In May 2009, we received a Civil Investigation Demand for Information from the Federal Trade Commissioner (“FTC”) relating to email marketing practices. We have been cooperating fully with the FTC regarding this matter, and in a notice dated April 2, 2010, FTC has decided not to recommend enforcement action against us. Several states have proposed legislation that would limit the use of personal information gathered online or require online services to establish privacy policies. Moreover, proposed legislation in the United States and existing laws in foreign countries require companies to establish procedures to notify users of privacy and security policy, obtain consent from users for collection and use of personal information, and/or provide users with the ability to access, correct, and delete personal information stored by companies. These regulations and other laws, rules, and regulations enacted in the future may adversely affect our ability to collect, disseminate, or share demographic and personal information about users and our ability to e-mail or telephone users, which could be costly and adversely affect our marketing efforts. Our failure to protect confidential information of our customers and our network against security breaches could damage our reputation and substantially harm our business and results of operations. A significant risk to online commerce and communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Third parties may have the technology or expertise to breach our security measures, placing private customer transaction data at risk. Our security measures may not prevent all security breaches which could result in substantial harm to our business and results of operations and damage to our reputation. Currently, a majority of our sales are billed to our customers’ credit card accounts directly. Under current credit card practices, we are liable for fraudulent credit card transactions because we do not obtain cardholder signatures. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed and managed by third parties to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including credit card numbers. We do not currently carry insurance against this risk. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect customer transaction data. In addition, anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. Any such compromise of our security could damage our reputation and brand and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, which would substantially harm our business and results of operations. In addition, the Payment Card Industry (PCI) imposes strict customer credit card data security standards that require us to provide quarterly self assessments to ensure that our customer credit card information is protected. Failure to meet the PCI data security standards could result in substantial fines and/or loss of the right to collect credit card payments. The loss of credit card activity would materially impact operations. We are vulnerable to fraudulent activities on our website, including distributed denial of service attacks, unauthorized use of customer information and identity theft by third parties. We are susceptible to Distributed Denial of Service (DDOS) attacks from third parties that can impede the performance of our websites by causing slow downs from massive incoming traffic to our websites and can even lead to shut downs. We were subject to such attacks in 2011 and have subsequently deployed several third party providers for DDOS protection. A sustained successful attack would harm our business and results of operations, however, does not comprise security. Our network security measures to prevent third parties from penetrating our network and improperly accessing our customers’ personal information or credit card information may not be successful. Although we have not experienced any theft of our customers’ credit card information to date, as new discoveries in the field of cryptography and advances in computer capabilities occur, our security measures may not effectively prevent others from obtaining improper access to our customer information. In addition, third parties may target our customers directly with fraudulent identity theft schemes designed to appear as legitimate e-mails from us. In March 2006, one such third party attempted to solicit customer information through a tactic, commonly known as “phishing,” whereby an e-mail purporting to be from us solicited customer information from recipients of the e-mail. Any such security breach or fraud perpetrated on our customers could expose us to increased costs and could harm our business, reputation, and results of operations. We depend on the continued growth and acceptance of online commerce, and our business will be substantially impaired if the growth of online commerce slows or does not grow as expected. Our success depends on the widespread acceptance and use of the Internet as an effective medium for commerce by consumers. The acceptance and use of the Internet may not continue to expand as expected, and a sufficient broad base of consumers necessary for its continued growth may not adopt the Internet as a medium for commerce. Consumers who historically have used traditional means of 20 Table of Contents commerce may have concerns about privacy, the inability to physically inspect merchandise before buying, delivery time, product damage during shipment, and the costs and inconvenience involved in returning purchased items, which may inhibit their crossover to e-commerce. In order to expand our user base, we must appeal to and acquire consumers who historically have used traditional means of commerce to purchase goods. If these new customers execute fewer or lower dollar amounts of orders than our historical users, and we are unable to gain efficiencies in our operating costs, including the cost of acquiring new customers, our business and profits could be adversely affected. Increased product returns and the failure to predict product returns could substantially harm our business and results of operations. As we expand our business and product offerings, rates of product return may increase. Any significant increase in product returns above our return assumptions and allowances could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Our inventory is vulnerable to damage or loss caused by fire, flood, earthquakes, and similar events, and we face the risk of theft of our products from inventory or during shipment. Our inventory is stored at our warehouse/office facilities in Culver City and Marina Del Rey, California. Consequently, our merchandise supply is vulnerable to fire, flood, earthquakes, and similar events that may impact our facility. Any damage to or loss of all or a significant portion of our inventory could cause significant delays in shipment of goods to our customers, resulting in negative publicity about and diminished customer confidence in our website. In addition, we may experience theft of our products while they are being held in inventory or during the course of their shipment to our customers by third-party carriers. We have implemented security measures to prevent such theft and maintain insurance to cover losses resulting from theft. Nevertheless, we could incur significant losses from theft, which would substantially harm our business and results of operations, if our security measures fail, losses exceed our insurance coverage, or we are not able to maintain insurance at a reasonable cost. Increases in credit card processing fees could increase our costs. Our merchant bank processor, Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discover Card and PayPal could increase the processing and interchange fees that they charge for transactions using their cards or service. Increases in processing and interchange fees may result in increased costs and reduced profit margin. We may default on our obligations, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash through sales in a timely manner. We have funded our operations through the cash generated from operations. The working capital characteristics of our business have allowed us to collect cash from sales to customers within several business days of the related sale, while we typically have extended payment terms with our suppliers. We do not, however, have any formal or binding supply agreements with any of our suppliers, manufacturers, distributors, or other suppliers or any other formal agreements with them on payment terms. Accordingly, there is a risk that we may default on our obligations if we are unable to generate sufficient cash through sales in a timely manner. Seasonal fluctuations in our net revenue could cause our quarterly results to fluctuate and cause our results of operations to be below expectations. Historically, sales in the jewelry industry are seasonal and have been higher in the fourth quarter of the calendar year as a result of higher consumer spending during the December holiday season. In anticipation of any increased sales activity during the fourth quarter, we may incur significant additional expenses, including higher sales and marketing costs and additional staffing in our fulfillment and customer support operations. If we were to experience lower than expected sales during any future fourth quarter, it would have a disproportionately large impact on our results of operations for that year. Our seasonal sales patterns may strain our personnel and fulfillment activities, and may cause a shortfall in sales compared with expenses in a given period, which would substantially harm our business and results of operations. Sales in prior periods may not be indicative of our future performance. Our sales have fluctuated significantly in the past, in part, as a result of varying amounts of funds we have spent on advertising and inventory levels and may fluctuate significantly in the future because of varying advertising and inventory costs. These factors may prevent the meaningful use of period-to-period comparisons of financial results. For these and other reasons, investors should not rely on past sales as a prediction of our future sales. 21 Table of Contents We had grown quickly prior to 2008, and our business will suffer if we fail to manage our future performance. We had expanded our operations at a rapid pace prior to the 2008 financial and economic crisis. This expansion had placed a significant strain on our management, operations, and financial resources. When our business recovers, we anticipate adding personnel in the future, including managerial, technical, and operations personnel. In order to manage the future growth of our operations, we will be required to improve existing and implement new transaction-processing, operational and financial systems, procedures, and controls. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, our business and results of operations will be harmed. Descriptions of our merchandise are not guarantees and may confuse, mislead, or disappoint our customers. Our jewelry, watch, accessories, and brand name merchandise descriptions are provided by our full-time Gemological Institute of America certified or trained gemologists and other experienced product specialists. We also provide appraisal summaries from third-party gemological laboratories for some of our jewelry items. Nevertheless, there is a subjective component involved with respect to assessing the clarity, color, and carat characteristics of diamonds and other gemstones. In addition, mistakes or discrepancies in our descriptions may occur. Even if our descriptions are accurate, buying a product online may lead to disappointment resulting in returned merchandise. For example, a customer may determine that a piece does not have the expected look, feel, and overall appearance of the merchandise that the buyer envisioned from the website photograph. Additionally, in response to customer requests and as a convenience to resellers, we provide “Compare,” “List” and/or “Retail” prices for merchandise listed on our website. These prices are not meant to reflect fair market values and in fact, may be higher than prices found in local retail stores. As a consequence, perceived misrepresentations in item descriptions by disappointed buyers may occur, resulting in negative publicity about and diminished customer confidence in our website. We may unknowingly be involved in “conflict” diamond purchases that result in a negative public relationship impact. There has been an increase in attention to “conflict” diamonds originating out of war-torn regions of Africa. The proceeds from the sale of “conflict” diamonds have been used to fund ongoing aggression and terrorist activities throughout the world. If these risks were to occur, we may face a negative public reaction to our brand name resulting in loss of sales. We may not be able to maintain our domain name uniqueness. Our Internet domain name is critical to our success. Under current domain name registration practices, no other entity can obtain an identical domain name, but can obtain a similar name or the identical name with a different suffix, such as “.net” or “.org,” or with a different country designation, such as “jp” for Japan. We have not registered our domain name with different suffixes nor have we registered our name in any other jurisdiction. As a result, third parties may use domain names that are similar to our domain name, which may result in confusion to potential customers and lost sales. We are aware that other businesses have registered the name “bidz” with other suffixes and in other countries. Our branded inventory may be vulnerable to complaints or claims of infringement on intellectual property rights. We purchase branded merchandise from third party vendors and are relying on their licensing agreements with the brand owners. In the event that a third party vendor misrepresents its licensing rights, we are vulnerable to complaints or claims of infringement on intellectual property rights and could be subject to legal proceedings and/or barred from selling the affected merchandise. If the third party vendor does not have the ability to take financial responsibility over the infringement our results of operations could be adversely affected. We may be subject to assertions by third parties for infringement on their intellectual property rights. Third parties may in the future assert that we have infringed on their intellectual property rights as we self-develop our auction platform and other operating systems. We have a larger exposure to being accused of intellectual property rights infringements than if we had purchased our technology off the shelf. We also may be at risk for selling items that infringe on other third party trade dress rights, copyright, or patent rights that may cause the offended party to bring an action against us. In either event of alleged infringement, we would face substantial litigation cost to defend ourselves and utilization of our management and personnel resources. We may be unable to protect or enforce our own intellectual property rights adequately, and we may become subject to intellectual property litigation. We regard the protection of our trademarks, copyrights, domain name, trade dress, and trade secrets as critical to our success. We rely on a combination of common law as well as trademark, copyright, trade dress, and trade secret laws to protect our intellectual property 22 Table of Contents rights. We also have entered into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and relevant contractors and nondisclosure agreements with relevant parties with whom we conduct business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. These contractual arrangements and other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property or deter independent development of similar intellectual property by others Effective trademark, copyright, patent, trade dress, trade secret, and domain name protection is very expensive to maintain and may require litigation. Third parties may from time to time claim that we have infringed their intellectual property relating to our business model or auction systems. We expect that participants in our market increasingly will be subject to infringement claims as the number of services and competitors in our industry segment grows. Any claim like this, whether meritorious or not, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause service upgrade delays, or require us to enter into royalty or license agreements. These royalty or license agreements may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. As a result, any such claim could harm our business. We may be unable to enforce protection of our intellectual property rights under the laws of other countries. We anticipate that we will become increasingly subject to international intellectual property risks, including differing intellectual property laws, which may be insufficient to protect our intellectual property, unique local laws, and lack of applicable law or clear precedent. We may be subject to regulations governing the conduct and liability of auctioneers, which could affect the way in which we conduct our business or otherwise increase our cost of doing business. Numerous states and foreign jurisdictions, including California, where our headquarters are located, have regulations regarding how auctions may be conducted and the liability of auctioneers in conducting such auctions. No final legal determination has been made whether the California regulations apply to our business, and little precedent exists in this area. Several states and some foreign jurisdictions have attempted, and may attempt in the future, to impose regulations that could affect us or our users, which could harm our business. We are subject to regulations relating to consumer privacy, which could increase the cost of our doing business, expose us to litigation costs, increase our service or delivery costs, and otherwise harm our business. Several states have proposed, and California, Minnesota, Utah, and Vermont have recently passed, legislation that would limit the uses of personal user information gathered online or offline. Many states already have such laws and continually consider strengthening them, especially against online services. However, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, or FCRA, a federal statute enacted in 1970 to protect consumer privacy, includes a provision preempting conflicting state laws on the sharing of information between corporate affiliates. The preemptive provisions of FCRA were permanently extended in 2002, thereby ensuring that we are not subject to the laws of each individual state with respect to matters within the scope of FCRA, but remain subject to the other provisions of FCRA. The Federal Trade Commission also has settled several proceedings against companies regarding the manner in which personal information is collected from users and provided to third parties. As noted above, we have cooperated with the FTC in an investigation relating to email marketing and received no enforcement action against us. Specific statutes intended to protect user privacy have been passed in many foreign jurisdictions. Compliance with these laws, given the tight integration of our systems across different countries and the need to move data to facilitate transactions among our users, such as payment companies and shipping companies, is both necessary and difficult. Failure to comply could subject us to lawsuits, fines, criminal penalties, statutory damages, adverse publicity, and other losses that could harm our business. Changes to existing laws or the passage of new laws intended to address these issues could directly affect the way we do business or could create uncertainty on the use of the Internet. This could reduce demand for our products, increase the cost of our doing business, expose us to litigation costs, increase our service or delivery costs, or otherwise harm our business. New and existing regulations could harm our business. We are subject to the same foreign and domestic laws as other companies conducting both online and offline business. There are still relatively few laws specifically directed towards online business. However, due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet and online services, many laws relating to the Internet are being debated at all levels of government around the world, and it is possible that such laws and regulations will be adopted. These laws and regulations could cover issues such as user privacy, freedom of expression, pricing, fraud, content and quality of products and services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights, and information security. Applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing issues, such as property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual property issues, taxation, libel and defamation, obscenity, and personal privacy is uncertain. The vast majority of these laws was adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and related technologies and, as a result, do not contemplate or address the unique 23 Table of Contents issues of the Internet and related technologies. Those laws that do reference the Internet, such as the U.S. Digital Millennium Copyright Act and the European Union’s Directive on Distance Selling and Electronic Commerce, have only recently begun to be interpreted by the courts and implemented by the European Union member states, so their applicability and scope remain uncertain. As our activities and the types of goods listed on our website expand, regulatory agencies may claim that we or our users are subject to licensure in their jurisdiction, either with respect to our business in general, or in order to allow the sale of certain items, such as real estate, event tickets, boats, and automobiles. In addition, because our products are available over the Internet in multiple states and because we sell merchandise to consumers residing in multiple states, we could be required to qualify to do business as a foreign corporation in each state in which our products are available. Our failure to qualify as a foreign corporation in a jurisdiction in which we are required to do so could subject us to penalties. Any new legislation or regulation, or the application of laws or regulations from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to our business could have a material adverse affect on our business. We depend to a very significant extent on David Zinberg, our Chief Executive Officer. Our performance depends substantially upon David Zinberg, our Chief Executive Officer, who has extensive experience with the purchase and sale of jewelry. We rely on Mr. Zinberg to make critical operational decisions on a daily basis, such as product offerings and purchases, and to make key strategic plans. We have an employment agreement with Mr. Zinberg extending through July 2012 and renewable annually. The loss of the services of Mr. Zinberg would adversely affect our business and operations. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, and, consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We intend to invest any future earnings to fund our business. Therefore, stockholders likely will not receive any dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Investors cannot be certain that they will receive a positive return on their investment when they sell their shares or that they will not lose the entire amount of their investment. The concentration of our capital stock ownership with our founder and executive officers and directors and their affiliates will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Our founder, executive officers, and directors together beneficially own approximately 22.2% of our common stock as of December 31, 2011. Marina Zinberg, who is the sister of David Zinberg, our Chief Executive Officer, owns an additional 21.0% of our common stock. As a result, these individuals will have significant influence over our management and affairs and over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or a sale of our company or its assets, for the foreseeable future. This concentrated control will limit the ability of other stockholders to influence corporate matters. Because of this, we may take actions that some of our stockholders do not view as beneficial. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected because stockholders may not view favorably the concentration of control in the hands of management. Our charter documents and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, and discourage a takeover. On June 22, 2006, we reincorporated in Delaware, and the Delaware certificate of incorporation and the Delaware General Corporation Law, or DGCL, contain provisions that may have the effect of making more difficult or delaying attempts by others to obtain control of our company, even when these attempts may be in the best interests of our stockholders. The Delaware certificate of incorporation also authorizes our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect or dilute the voting power of the holders of common stock. Delaware law also imposes conditions on certain business combination transactions with “interested stockholders.” The Delaware certificate of incorporation divides our Board of Directors into three classes, with one class to stand for election each year for a three-year term after the initial election. The classification of directors tends to discourage a third party from initiating a proxy solicitation or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company and may maintain the incumbency of our Board of Directors, as this structure generally increases the difficulty of, or may delay, replacing a majority of directors. The Delaware bylaws authorize our Board of Directors to fill vacancies or newly created directorships. A majority of the directors then in office may elect a successor to fill any vacancies or newly created directorships. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 24 Table of Contents 