Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business We have incurred net losses since inception. We have a history of operating losses and have incurred significant net losses in each fiscal quarter since our inception. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had net revenues of $20.3 million and $6.3 million, respectively and incurred net losses of $14.0 million and $7.5 million, respectively. We will need to generate significant additional revenue to achieve profitability. While management believes that we may achieve profitability in the second part of 2012, there can be no assurance that we will do so. Our ability to generate and sustain significant additional revenues or achieve profitability will depend upon numerous factors outside of our control, including the market acceptance of our bio-based resins, future cost trends for our key raw materials and competitive products and general economic conditions. We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our financial performance and prospects. We commenced the marketing and commercial sale of our products within the past three years and continue to develop and launch new bio-based resins. We are, therefore, subject to all of the risks inherent in a new business enterprise, as well as those inherent in a rapidly developing industry. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our financial performance and prospects. There can be no assurance that in the future we will generate revenues, operate profitably or that we will have adequate working capital to meet our obligations as they become due. Because of our limited financial history, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations will not be meaningful in the short term and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Our revenues are highly dependent on customers primarily located in the Europe. Worsening economic conditions or factors negatively affecting the economic health of Europe could reduce our revenues and thus adversely affect our results of operations. The current financial crisis in Europe (including concerns that certain European countries may default in payments due on their national debt) and the resulting economic uncertainty could adversely impact our operating results until economic conditions in Europe improve and the prospects of national debt defaults in Europe decline. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from customers in Europe, from whom we have experienced a decline in product sales since September 2011. If the European economies further weaken or slow, demand and pricing for our products may be depressed and our customers may reduce or postpone purchases of our products, which may in turn negatively affect our revenues and opportunities for profitability. Any loss of revenues from our major customers could materially affect our business. To the extent that these adverse economic conditions continue or worsen, our business will be negatively affected. In the current economic environment we will be required to raise additional capital to fund our research and development efforts, marketing programs, as well as our continuing operations and have been successful at doing so. Our capital requirements depend on several factors, including: • the speed at which our products are accepted into the market; • the level of spending required to increase and enhance manufacturing capacity; • costs of recruiting and retaining qualified personnel; and • the level of research and development and market commercialization spending. Additional capital may be required to continue funding our research and development efforts as well as our continuing operations. Volatility in the financial markets and the weakened global economy, together with the downgrade of the U.S. credit rating and ongoing European debt crisis, have contributed to the current uncertain economic climate. The ongoing credit and liquidity crisis has greatly restricted the availability of capital and has caused the cost of capital (if available) to be much higher than it has traditionally been. Therefore, we have no assurance that we will have further access to credit or capital markets at desirable times or at rates that we would consider acceptable, and the lack of such funding could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. There can be no assurance that additional sources of financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our research and development efforts, take advantage of opportunities, develop products or technologies or otherwise respond to competitive pressures will be impaired. 9 Table of Contents The current uncertainty in global economic conditions could negatively affect our operating results. The current uncertainty in global economic conditions may result in a further slowdown to the global economy that could affect our business by reducing the prices that our customers may be able or willing to pay for our products or by reducing the demand for our products. Distress in the financial markets also has a negative impact on our distributor customers by affecting their access to liquidity or trade credit which impacts their ability to timely pay their outstanding balances to us. The current downturn in the economy may continue to affect consumer purchases of our product and adversely impact our results of operations and continued growth. The commercial success of our business depends on the widespread market acceptance of products manufactured with our bio-based resins. Although there is a developed market for petroleum-based plastics, the market for plastics produced with our environmentally friendly bio-based resins is still developing. Our success depends in part on consumer acceptance of these plastic products as well as the success of the commercialization of plastics produced with our bio-based resins by third parties. At present, it is difficult to assess or predict with any assurance the potential size, timing and viability of market opportunities for our product in the plastics market. The traditional plastics market sector is well-established with entrenched competitors with whom we must compete. Pricing for traditional plastics has been highly volatile in recent years and moved rapidly from conditions which are more supportive of bioplastics to environments which are less favorable (like the present). While we expect to be able to command a premium price for our environmentally sustainable products, a widening gap in the pricing for bioplastics versus petroleum-based plastics may reduce the size of our addressable market. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property and proprietary rights and may be required to expend significant amounts of money and time in attempting to protect these rights. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our competitive position in the market could suffer. Our intellectual property consists of patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trade dress and trademarks. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our other intellectual property for our technologies, brands and products in the U.S. and in other countries. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S., and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting their proprietary rights in these foreign countries. These problems may be caused by, among other factors, a lack of rules and methods for defending intellectual property rights. The enforceability of patent positions cannot be predicted with certainty. We will apply for patents covering both our technologies and our products, if any, as we deem appropriate. Patents, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. There can be no assurance that no other relevant patents have been issued that could block our ability to obtain patents or to operate as we would like. Others may independently develop similar technologies or may duplicate technologies developed by us. Our future commercial success requires us not to infringe on patents and proprietary rights of third parties, or breach any licenses or other agreements that we have entered into with respect to our technologies, products and businesses. If we were to be sued for patent infringement, we might be subject to significant damages, enjoined from continuing certain businesses, or required to enter into a license agreement. There is no guarantee that such a license would be available at all or available on reasonable terms. If we were to breach any of our existing license agreements, the licensor might exercise its right to terminate the agreement, and if sued, we might be subject to damages. We are not currently a party to any litigation with respect to any of our patent positions. However, if we become involved in litigation or interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or other intellectual property proceedings outside of the U.S., we might have to spend significant amounts of money to defend our intellectual property rights. If any of our competitors files patent applications or obtains patents that claim inventions or other rights also claimed by us, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the relevant patent regulatory agency to determine priority of invention and our right to a patent of these inventions in the U.S. Even if the outcome is favorable, such proceedings might result in substantial costs to us, including from (i) significant legal fees and other expenses, (ii) diversion of management time and (iii) disruption of our business. Even if successful on priority grounds, an interference proceeding may result in loss of claims based on patentability grounds raised in the interference proceeding. Uncertainties resulting from initiation and continuation of any patent or related litigation also might harm our ability to continue our research or to bring products to market. 10 Table of Contents An adverse ruling arising out of any intellectual property dispute, including an adverse decision as to the priority of our inventions would undercut or invalidate our intellectual property position. An adverse ruling also could subject us to significant liability for damages, prevent us from using certain processes, products, or brand names, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with third parties. Furthermore, necessary licenses may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, or at all. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. To protect our proprietary technologies and processes, we rely on trade secret protection as well as on formal legal devices such as patents. Although we have taken security measures to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, these measures may not provide adequate protection for such information. Our policy is to execute confidentiality and proprietary information agreements with each of our employees and consultants upon the commencement of an employment or consulting arrangement with us. These agreements generally require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not be disclosed to third parties. These agreements also generally provide that technology conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our exclusive property. Even though these agreements are in place there can be no assurances that that trade secrets and proprietary information will not be disclosed, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets, or that we can fully protect our trade secrets and proprietary information. Violations by others of our confidentiality agreements and the loss of employees who have specialized knowledge and expertise could harm our competitive position and cause our sales and operating results to decline as a result of increased competition. Costly and time-consuming litigation might be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection might adversely affect our ability to continue our research or bring products to market. Management and affiliates own enough shares to have a substantial impact on shareholder vote which could cause us to take action that may not be in the best interest of all shareholders. As of April 13, 2012, executive officers and directors, and entities controlled by or affiliated with them or us, own in aggregate approximately 15.9% of our issued and the outstanding common stock. As a result, this group of stockholders have a substantial impact on the vote on matters that require stockholder approval, such as election of directors, approval of a corporate merger, increasing or decreasing the number of authorized shares, adopting corporate benefit plans, effecting a stock split, amending our article of incorporation or other material corporate actions, and these shareholders could cause us to take action that may not be in the best interest of all shareholders. Given our limited resources, we may not effectively manage our growth. Our growth and expansion plan, which includes targeting high-growth segments with commercial products, supporting converter partners and working with brand owners in the adoption of bio-based plastics to enlarge our customer base, expanding our manufacturing capabilities, strengthening our product leadership by developing new formulations in conjunction with customer demands and pursuing strategic alliances, requires significant management time and operational and financial resources. There is no assurance that we have the necessary operational and financial resources to manage our growth. This is especially true as we expand facilities and manufacture our products on a larger commercial scale. In addition, rapid growth in our headcount and operations may place a significant strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Failure to adequately manage our growth could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the quoted price of our common stock. Established product manufacturers could improve their ability to recycle their existing products or develop new environmentally preferable products which could render our technology less competitive. Several paper and plastic disposable packaging manufacturers and converters and others have made efforts to increase the recycling of their products. Increased recycling of paper and plastic products could lessen their harmful environmental impact, one major basis upon which we compete. Many potential competitors who have greater resources and experience than we do may develop products and technologies that compete with ours. A number of companies, including BASF, DuPont, Novamont, NatureWorks and Telles have introduced or are in the process of introducing both bio-based resins and/or compostable synthetic-based resins. We view the threat from this competition is low. Just as a wide variety of different petroleum-based polymers and resins currently serve the needs of the plastic market, we believe that the various resins and polymers offer different properties and are targeted at different applications, making them more complementary and thus broadening the universe of applications for bio-based and compostable plastics. 11 Table of Contents We rely on prime grade PLA supplied from NatureWorks, LLC in manufacturing some of our Compostables resins. If we lose NatureWorks, LLC as a supplier, the price of these resins may increase or the introduction and market acceptance of these resins may be delayed and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We have entered into a supply agreement with NatureWorks to supply prime grade PLA for some of our raw material needs. NatureWorks, LLC, currently produces the majority of the prime grade PLA in the U.S., and we currently rely on NatureWorks, LLC for a substantial portion of our PLA requirements. For the year ended December 31, 2011, PLA accounted for 10.8% of our total cost of goods sold. If we lose NatureWorks, LLC as a supplier or if NatureWorks, LLC fails to perform its obligations under our supply agreement, it could delay the commercial introduction, hinder market acceptance of these resins and increase the cost of these resins and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We continue to develop alternative feedstock to PLA and evaluate additional PLA sources to support some of our Compostables® Resins, which incorporate prime grade PLA. Cereplast Hybrid Resins® do not depend on PLA. Fluctuations in the costs of our raw materials and competitive products could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations are directly affected by the cost of our raw materials. Our Compostables Resins are based in large part on PLA, a renewable polymer manufactured from an agricultural feedstock (corn sugar). Our ability to offset the effect of raw material prices by increasing sales prices is uncertain. A further increase in the price differential between agricultural –based raw materials relative to petroleum-based plastics could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial position. Historically, a primary driver for the growth of the bioplastics market has been the rising and increasingly volatile cost of oil, which has narrowed the cost gap between traditional and bio-based plastics, and expectations of sustained large hydrocarbon price increases over the long term which would further enhance the competitiveness of our products. Prices and demand for traditional plastics have collapsed in recent months due to global economic conditions; this in turn has affected the interest in bioplastics by certain market sectors and reduced our relative competitiveness. We have a large accounts receivable balance, any default in payment by one or more customers could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. As of December 31, 2011, we had an aggregate amount of $20.9 million in accounts receivable. Our European customers account for $19.5 million or 93.6% of our accounts receivable balance with average days outstanding of 352. One large European customer accounting for $7.6 million, or 36% of our receivables, is past due. We have another large European customer with $6.1 million or 29% of our receivable balance. We believe both of these customers have possession of unsold products in their inventory and that we could assist them to monetize these products for repayment of their outstanding receivable balances. The current financial crisis in Europe and the general economic downturn has resulted in longer payment cycles in excess of management’s expectations. If financial or credit conditions worsen in Europe, we may continue to experience difficulties collecting these outstanding balances from our European customers. If these customers were to become insolvent or otherwise be unable or unwilling to make timely payments for any reason, our business, results of operation, financial condition and liquidity will be adversely affected. As a result of the deterioration in economic conditions in Europe and the slow payment by some of our European customers, we have increased our allowance for doubtful accounts by $5.3 million during 2011 to reflect management’s assessment of the credit risk associated with these customer balances. If there is additional deterioration in European economic conditions or additional delays or unwillingness of our customers to pay amounts due to us, such allowance will increase. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we had three significant customers that accounted for approximately 80% of net sales. The loss of these customers could adversely affect our sales and profitability. During the year ended December 31, 2011, three customers accounted for approximately 80% of our net sales. If these customers elect not to continue purchasing products from us, we may not be able to find other customers whose requirements for our products are as significant. Accordingly, the loss of these significant customers may adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Our operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The manufacture, sale and use of resins are subject to regulation by the U.S. FDA. The FDA’s regulations are concerned with substances used in food packaging materials, not with specific finished food packaging products. Thus, food and beverage containers are in compliance with FDA regulations if the components used in the food and beverage containers: (i) are approved by the FDA as indirect food additives for their intended uses and comply with the applicable FDA indirect food additive regulations; or (ii) are generally recognized as safe for their intended uses and are of suitable purity for those intended uses. We believe that our resins are in compliance with all FDA requirements. However, failure to comply with FDA regulations could subject us to administrative, civil or criminal penalties. Regulatory changes applicable to us, or the products in our end-use markets, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We and many of the applications for the products in the end-use markets in which we sell our products are regulated by various national and local regulations. Changes in those regulations could result in additional compliance costs, seizures, confiscations, recall or monetary fines, any of which could prevent or inhibit the development, distribution and sale of our products. We may be liable for damages based on product liability claims brought against our customers in our end-use markets. Many of our products may provide critical performance attributes to our customers’ products that will be sold to end users who could potentially bring product liability suits in which we could be named as a defendant. The sale of these products involves the risk of product liability claims. If a person were to bring a product liability suit against one of our customers, this customer may attempt to seek contribution from us. A person may also bring a product liability claim directly against us. A successful product liability claim or series of claims against us in excess of our insurance coverage for payments, for which we are not otherwise indemnified, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could hurt our business and inhibit our ability to operate and grow successfully. Our success in the competitive markets in which we operate will continue to depend to a significant extent on our leadership and other key management and technical personnel. We may not be able to retain our current management personnel or to recruit qualified individuals to join our management team. The loss of any key individual could have a material and adverse effect on our business. Disruptions of continuous operation of our Seymour bioplastic production facility could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In March 2010, we completed our transfer of operations to our manufacturing facility in Seymour, Indiana. Phase I of the development of the Seymour plant included approximately 50 million pounds of annual capacity of bio-resin and was fully implemented in 2009. This Phase was mechanically completed and includes major supply contracts for operations on a continuous basis. Phase II was completed in March 2010, which encompassed the consolidation of all core manufacturing activities from our Hawthorne plant to the Seymour plant resulting in significant cost, productivity and quality enhancements. If there is any interruption in the operation of our Seymour plant, our sales and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Further expansions will depend on growth in market demand. Downturns in general economic conditions could adversely affect our profitability. Downturns in general economic conditions can cause fluctuations in demand for our products, product prices, volumes and gross margins. Future economic conditions may not be favorable to our industry. A decline in the demand for our products or a shift to lower-margin products due to deteriorating economic conditions could adversely affect sales of our products and our profitability and could also result in impairments of certain of our assets. 13 Table of Contents Risks related to our common stock Our common stock is subject to the “Penny Stock” rules of the SEC and the trading market in our securities is limited, which makes transactions in our stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in our stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) has adopted Rule 15g-9 which establishes the definition of a “penny stock,” for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require: • that a broker or dealer approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks; and • that the broker or dealer receives from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: • obtain financial information concerning the person’s financial situation, and investment experience and investment objectives of the person; and • make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: • sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and • that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the “penny stock” rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our common stock and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. We may fail to qualify for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market which could make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares. In April 2010, our common stock was approved for listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market and continues to be listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. There can be no assurance that trading of our common stock on such market will be sustained or that we can meet NASDAQ’s continued listing standards. On March 7, 2012, we were advised by NASDAQ that we were non-compliant with the audit committee requirement as a result of the resignation of Petros Kitsos from our Company’s Board of Directors. On March 5, 2012, our Board of Directors appointed Frank Hunt to serve on the audit committee, effective April 1, 2012. On April 3, 2012, we were advised by NASDAQ that we were in compliance with the audit committee requirement for continued listing. In the event that our common stock fails to qualify for continued inclusion, our common stock could thereafter be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board or the Pink Sheets. Under such circumstances, shareholders may find it more difficult to sell, or to obtain accurate quotations, for our common stock, and our common stock would become substantially less attractive to certain purchasers such as financial institutions, hedge funds and other similar investors. Our common stock may be affected by limited trading volume and price fluctuations which could adversely impact the value of our common stock. Trading in our common stock can fluctuate significantly and there can be no assurance that an active trading market will either develop or be maintained. Our common stock is expected to continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This trading activity could adversely affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, we believe that factors such as quarterly fluctuations in our financial results and changes in the overall economy or the condition of the financial markets could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. These fluctuations may also cause short sellers to periodically enter the market in the belief that our stock price will decline in the future. We cannot predict the actions of market participants or the stock market as a whole. We can offer no assurances that the market for our common stock will be stable or that our stock price will fluctuate in a manner that is consistent with our operating results. 14 Table of Contents We have not and do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock. We have paid no dividends on our common stock to date and it is not anticipated that any dividends will be paid to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. While our future dividend policy will be based on the operating results and capital needs of the business, it is currently anticipated that any earnings will be retained to finance our future expansion and for the implementation of our business plan. As an investor, you should take note of the fact that a lack of a dividend can further affect the market value of our stock, and could significantly affect the value of any investment in our Company. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with terms that may not be beneficial to common stockholders. Our articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of preferred shares which may be issued with dividend, liquidation, voting and redemption rights senior to our common stock without prior approval by the stockholders. The preferred stock may be issued for such consideration as may be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may issue such shares of preferred stock in one or more series, with such designations, preferences and rights or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof as shall be stated in the resolution of resolutions. The issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power and other rights of the holders of common stock. Preferred stock may be issued quickly with terms calculated to discourage, make more difficult, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company or make removal of management more difficult. As a result, the Board of Directors’ ability to issue preferred stock may discourage the potential hostile acquirer, possibly resulting in beneficial negotiations. Negotiating with an unfriendly acquirer may result in, among other things, terms more favorable to us and our stockholders. Conversely, the issuance of preferred stock may adversely affect any market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of the common stock. We presently have no plans to issue any preferred stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 