Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC are some of the principal risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual business results to differ materially from historical results or any forward-looking statements or other projections contained in this Report. These risk factors should be considered in addition to our cautionary comments concerning forward-looking statements in this Report. Risks Related To Our Business We face intense competition and if we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. The consumer market for private label tissue products is highly competitive. Many of our competitors have greater financial, managerial, sales and marketing and capital resources than we do, which may allow them to respond more quickly to new opportunities or changes in customer requirements. These competitors may also be larger in size or scope than us, which may allow them to achieve greater economies of scale or allow them to better withstand periods of declining prices and adverse operating conditions. Our ability to compete successfully depends upon a variety of factors, including: • the availability, quality and cost of parent rolls purchased from third parties; • aggressive pricing by competitors, which may force us to decrease prices in order to maintain market share; • our ability to maintain and improve plant efficiencies and operating rates and lower manufacturing costs; • the availability, quality and cost of raw materials, particularly recycled waste paper and labor; and • the cost of energy. Our paper products are commodity products, and if we do not maintain competitive prices, we may lose significant market share. Our ability to keep our prices at competitive levels depends in large part on our ability to control our costs. In addition, consolidation among retailers in the value retail channel may put additional pressure on us to reduce our prices in order to maintain market share. If we are unable to effectively adjust our cost structure to address such increased competitive pressures, our sales level and profitability could be harmed and our operations could be materially adversely affected. A substantial percentage of our revenues are attributable to two large customers, which may decrease or cease purchases at any time. Our largest customer, Dollar General, accounted for slightly more than half of our revenue in 2005. Our second largest customer, Family Dollar, accounted for approximately 15% of our revenues in 2005. We currently supply substantially all of the value private label products at three of Dollar General’s eight distribution centers, substantially all of the value private label products at two of Family Dollar’s eight distribution centers and approximately half of the value private label products at two other Family Dollar distribution centers. We expect that sales to a limited number of customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Sales to these customers are made pursuant to purchase orders and not supply agreements. We may not be able to keep our key customers or these customers may cancel purchase orders or reschedule or decrease their level of purchases from us. Any substantial decrease or delay in sales to one or more of our key customers would harm our sales and financial results. In particular, the loss of sales to one or more distribution centers would result in a sudden and significant 10 Table of Contents decrease in sales. If sales to current key customers cease or are reduced, we may not obtain sufficient orders from other customers necessary to offset any such losses or reductions. We may experience cost overruns in and delays in the start up of our project to expand our paper mill. It is possible that we may experience cost overruns in and delays in the start up of our project to expand our paper mill. We have arranged a construction loan facility based on the total projected costs of the project. If our actual costs exceed our projections significantly, we may need to seek additional sources of capital to complete the project. If we are unable to secure such additional capital on reasonable terms or at all, and consequently the project is delayed or abandoned, we may experience a material adverse effect on our business. The new paper machine project is very large in scope with a significant number of variables, many of which are not within our control. We have hired an engineering firm to act as project manager to maximize our ability to start up the new paper machine per the project schedule, which is currently estimated to be between late May and the middle of June, 2006. Any number of variables could cause the paper machine project to be delayed in its start up, which would extend our dependence on parent rolls purchased from third parties and subject our results of operations to the continued high costs and uncertain availability of these parent rolls. We have significant indebtedness which limits our free cash flow and subjects us to restrictive covenants relating to the operation of our business. In addition to the proceeds of the July 2005 public offering, as of February 28, 2006, we had borrowed approximately $3.6 million pursuant to our existing construction loan facility to fund the expansion of our paper mill. We anticipate borrowing an additional $9.8 million to complete the project which will bring total borrowings under the construction loan facility to approximately $13.4 million. As a result, our total indebtedness will increase considerably from $18.6 million at year-end 2005 to approximately $29.2 million in the third quarter of 2006. Accordingly, our annual interest costs will increase substantially from the $1.6 million (includes capitalized interest on the new paper machine project of $411,000) incurred in 2005. Furthermore, after the new mill project is certified as complete and the construction loan is refinanced, we expect that our required principal repayments will increase to approximately $210,000 per month from $140,000 per month. Also, our term loan agreement with our bank group requires an annual excess cash flow recapture payment starting in 2007. Operating with this substantial amount of leverage requires us to direct a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our debt, which reduces the funds otherwise available for operations, capital expenditures, future business opportunities and other purposes. It also limits our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry and impairs our ability to obtain additional financing. The terms of our existing term loan agreement require us to meet specified financial ratios and other financial and operating covenants which restrict our ability to incur additional debt or place liens on our assets, make capital expenditures, effect mergers or acquisitions, dispose of assets or pay dividends in certain circumstances. If we fail to meet those financial ratios and covenants and our lenders do not waive them, we will be required to pay fees and penalties. Our lenders could also accelerate the maturity of our debt if we fail to meet those financial ratios and covenants and proceed against any pledged collateral, which would force us to seek alternative financing. If this were to happen, we may be unable to obtain additional financing or it may not be available on terms acceptable to us. The availability of and prices for energy will significantly impact our business. All of the energy necessary to produce our paper products is purchased on the open market and, as a result, the price and other terms of those purchases are subject to change based on factors such as worldwide supply and demand and government regulation. We rely primarily on electric energy and natural gas. In particular, natural gas prices are highly volatile. During the year 2005, our price of natural gas increased from an average price of $6.38 per MMBTU in the first quarter of 2005 to an average price of $10.48 in the fourth quarter of 2005. In 2005, we consumed 263,500 MMBTU of natural gas at an average price of $7.76 per MMBTU for a total cost of $2,045,000. If our energy costs increase, our cost of sales will increase, and our 11 Table of Contents operating results may be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, we may not be able to pass increased energy costs on to our customers if the market does not allow us to raise the prices of our finished products. If price adjustments significantly trail the increase in energy costs or if we cannot effectively hedge against price increases, our operating results may be materially adversely affected. Our exposure to variable interest rates may affect our financial health. Debt incurred under our existing term loan agreements accrues interest at a variable rate. During 2005, our term debt interest rates rose from 6.78% at the start of the year to 8.44% at year-end. Any further increase in the interest rates on our debt would result in a higher interest expense which would require us to dedicate more of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our debt and reduce funds available to us for our operations and future business opportunities which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For more information on our liquidity, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We depend on our management team to operate the Company and execute our business plan. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management staff, in particular Michael Sage, our Chief Executive Officer, and Keith Schroeder, our Chief Financial Officer. We have entered into employment agreements with Michael Sage and Keith Schroeder that expire in 2009. As of December 31, 2005, we did not maintain key person insurance with respect to our executive officers, although we intend to purchase a key man life insurance policy on Mike Sage in 2006. The loss of any of the executive officers or our inability to attract and retain other qualified personnel could harm our business and our ability to compete. We exclusively use preconsumer solid bleached sulfate paper, or SBS paper, to produce parent rolls and any disruption in our supply or cost of preconsumer SBS paper could disrupt our production and harm our ability to produce tissue at competitive prices. We do not produce any of the waste paper we use to produce our parent rolls. We depend heavily on access to sufficient, reasonably-priced quantities of waste paper to manufacture our tissue products. Our paper mill is configured to convert waste paper, specifically SBS paper, into paper pulp for use in our paper production lines. In 2005, we purchased approximately $6.7 million of SBS paper, or 34,000 tons. We purchase all of our SBS paper from third parties with about three-fourths supplied by two paper brokers. These brokers in turn source SBS paper from numerous producers of preconsumer SBS paper. We purchase our SBS paper on a purchase order basis and do not have a contractual right to an adequate supply, quality or acceptable pricing on a long-term basis. Prices for SBS paper have fluctuated significantly in the past and will likely continue to fluctuate significantly in the future, principally due to market imbalances between supply and demand. If either the available supply of SBS paper diminishes or the demand for SBS paper increases, it could substantially increase the cost of SBS paper or cause a production slow-down or stoppage until we are able to identify new sources of SBS paper or reconfigure our machines to process other available forms of waste paper or other sources of paper fiber. We could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations should the price or supply of SBS paper be disrupted. We purchase parent rolls on the open market and any disruption in supply or increase in cost of parent rolls could harm our ability to produce tissue at competitive prices. We have purchased parent rolls on the open market since 1998 because our own parent roll production has not adequately supplied the requirements of our converting facility. We purchased approximately 12,200, 5,000 and 3,300 tons of paper on the open market in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, to supplement our paper-making capacity. Parent rolls are a commodity product and thus are subject to market price and availability. We have experienced significantly higher parent roll prices in recent periods, as well as limited availability, which has negatively affected our profitability. We anticipate that the trend toward higher prices will continue for the foreseeable future. We intend to reduce or eliminate purchases of parent rolls by 12 Table of Contents purchasing a new paper machine, which project is underway and is expected to be fully operational by October 2006. Until the paper machine is operational, we will continue to be subject to price volatility and limited availability of parent rolls. Any increase in parent roll prices or decrease in parent roll availability could have an adverse effect on our business or operations. Labor interruptions would adversely affect our business. All of our hourly paid employees are represented by the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial & Service Workers International Union. The collective bargaining agreement with Local 5-930, which represents the paper mill workers, will expire on February 2, 2008, and the collective bargaining agreement with Local 5-1480, which represents the converting facility workers, will expire on June 23, 2007. Negotiations of new collective bargaining agreements may result in significant increases in the cost of labor or could breakdown and result in a strike or other disruption of our operations. If any of the preceding were to occur, it could impair our ability to manufacture our products and result in increased costs and/or decreased operating results. In addition, some of our key customers and suppliers are also unionized. Disruption in their labor relations could also have an adverse effect on our business. Our paper mill may experience shutdowns adversely affecting our financial position and results of operations. We currently manufacture and process our paper at a single facility in Pryor, Oklahoma. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to this facility due to tornado, fire or any other calamity could damage our capital equipment or supporting infrastructure and materially impair our ability to manufacture and process paper. Even a short-term disruption in our production output could damage relations with our customers, causing them to reduce or eliminate the amount of finished products they purchase from us. Any such disruption could result in lost revenues, increased costs and reduced profits. Our existing paper machines are approximately 50 years old. To meet demand, all three machines operate continuously. Unexpected production disruptions could cause us to shut down our paper mill. Those disruptions could occur due to any number of circumstances, including shortages of raw materials, disruptions in the availability of transportation, labor disputes and mechanical or process failures. If our mill is shut down, it may experience a prolonged start up period, regardless of the reason for the shutdown. Those start up periods could range from several days to several months, depending on the reason for the shutdown and other factors. The shutdown of our mill for a substantial period of time for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our operations require substantial capital, and we may not have adequate capital resources to provide for all of our cash requirements. Our operations require substantial capital. Expansion or replacement of existing facilities or equipment may require substantial capital expenditures. For example, our new paper machine project is estimated to cost $30.5 million. In addition, we will likely need to acquire an additional converting line to meet the additional parent roll capacity from our new paper machine project, which we currently estimate would cost approximately $5.0 million. Our capital resources may not be sufficient for these purposes. If our capital resources are inadequate to provide for our operating needs, capital expenditures and other cash requirements, this shortfall could have a material adverse effect on our business and liquidity. Our business is subject to extensive governmental regulations and any imposition of new regulations or failure to comply with existing regulations could involve significant additional expense. Our operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations promulgated by federal, state and local governments. These laws and regulations impose stringent standards on us regarding, among other things, air emissions, water discharges, use and handling of hazardous materials, use, handling and disposal of waste, and remediation of environmental contamination. Any failure to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations or permit requirements may result in civil or criminal fines or 13 Table of Contents penalties or enforcement actions. These may include regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, installing pollution control equipment or remedial actions, any of which could involve significant expenditures. Future development of such laws and regulations may require capital expenditures to ensure compliance. We may discover currently unknown environmental problems or conditions in relation to our past or present operations, or we may face unforeseen environmental liabilities in the future. These conditions and liabilities may require site remediation or other costs to maintain compliance or correct violations of environmental laws and regulations; or result in governmental or private claims for damage to person, property or the environment, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be subject to strict liability and, under specific circumstances, joint and several liability for the investigation and remediation of the contamination of soil, surface and ground water, including contamination caused by other parties, at properties that we own or operate and at properties where we or our predecessors arranged for the disposal of regulated materials. We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company. As a public company, we are incurring significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new requirements applicable to listing on the American Stock Exchange, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. These new regulations and requirements have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, as a result of being a public company, we were required to create additional board committees. We have incurred additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements and will continue to do so in the future. An example is the directors and officer liability insurance we obtained as a result of becoming a public company. If we are unable to effectively adjust our cost structure to address a significant increase in our legal, accounting and other expenses, our sales level and profitability could be harmed and our operations could be materially adversely affected. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and, as a result, our business could be harmed and current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in us, which could cause our stock price to fall. We will be evaluating our internal controls systems to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls. We will be performing the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a result, we expect to incur substantial additional expenses and diversion of management’s time. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or their effect on our operations since there is presently no precedent available by which to measure compliance adequacy. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or the American Stock Exchange. Any such action could harm our business or investors’ confidence in us, and could cause our stock price to fall. Risks Related To Our Common Stock We do not pay cash dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the future. Since January 2003, we have not paid cash dividends on our capital stock and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the future. Instead, we intend to retain our future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of our loan agreement prohibit us from declaring dividends without the prior consent of our lender. 14 Table of Contents Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a takeover. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover. These provisions may: • discourage, delay or prevent a change in the control of our company or a change in our management; • adversely affect the voting power of holders of common stock; and • limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our future operating results may be below securities analysts’ or investors’ expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our revenue and income potential depends on expanding our production capacity and finding buyers for our additional production, and we may be unable to generate significant revenues or grow at the rate expected by securities analysts or investors. In addition, our costs may be higher than we, securities analysts or investors expect. If we fail to generate sufficient revenues or our costs are higher than we expect, our results of operations will suffer, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Our results of operations will depend upon numerous factors, including: • our ability to reduce production costs; • demand for our products; and • our ability to develop sales and marketing capabilities. Our operating results in any particular period may not be a reliable indication of our future performance. In some future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock will likely decline. Our common stock has only been publicly traded for a short period of time, and we expect that the price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially, possibly resulting in class action securities litigation. Before our initial public offering on July 15, 2005, there was no public market for shares of our common stock. Since our initial public offering, the average daily trading volume of our common stock has been approximately 3,300 shares. The market price for our common stock subsequent to the offering and in the future will be affected by a number of factors, including: • actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts’ earnings estimates; and • developments in our industry. The stock prices of many companies in the paper products industry have experienced wide fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Because of the low trading volume, our stock price is subject to greater volatility. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Class action securities litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management resources, which could significantly harm our business. 15 Table of Contents Our directors have limited personal liability and rights of indemnification from us for their actions as directors. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation limits the liability of directors to the maximum extent permitted by Delaware law. Delaware law provides that directors of a corporation will not be personally liable for monetary damages for breach of their fiduciary duties as directors, except liability for: • any breach of their duty of loyalty to the corporation or its stockholders; • acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law; • unlawful payments of dividends or unlawful stock repurchases or redemptions; or • any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. This limitation of liability does not apply to liabilities arising under the federal securities laws and does not affect the availability of equitable remedies such as injunctive relief or rescission. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide that we will indemnify our directors and executive officers and other officers and employees and agents to the fullest extent permitted by law. We entered into separate indemnification agreements with each of our directors and officers which are broader than the specific indemnification provision under Delaware law. Under these agreements, we are required to indemnify them against all expenses, judgments, fines, settlements and other amounts actually and reasonably incurred, in connection with any actual, or any threatened, proceeding if any of them may be made a party because he or she is or was one of our directors or officers. If any litigation or proceeding were pursued against any of our directors, officers, employees or agents where indemnification is required or permitted, we could incur significant legal expenses and be responsible for any resulting settlement or judgment. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 