ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect us are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. 18 Table of Contents If any of the following risks actually occurs, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our Business Has Been and May Continue to be Adversely Affected by Current Conditions in the Financial Markets And Economic Conditions Generally. Negative developments in the latter half of 2007 and in 2008 in the financial services industry have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general and a related general economic downturn, which have continued into 2009. In addition, as a consequence of the recession that the United States now finds itself in, business activity across a wide range of industries face serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the extreme lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. Unemployment has also increased significantly. As a result of these financial economic crises, many lending institutions, including us, have experienced declines in the performance of their loans, including construction, land development and land loans, commercial loans and consumer loans. Moreover, competition among depository institutions for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets has become more difficult compared to recent years. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal or informal enforcement actions or orders. The impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance or our stock price. In addition, further negative market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. Overall, during the past year, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on our business, and there can be no assurance that the environment will improve in the near term. Until conditions improve, we expect our business, financial condition and results of operations to be adversely affected. We Are Subject to Interest Rate Risk Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, demand for loans, securities and deposits, and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of our loans and securities which are collateralized by mortgages. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a 19 Table of Contents faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to our management of interest rate risk. We are Subject to Credit Risk There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where we operate as well as those across the United States and abroad. Increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. We are also subject to various laws and regulations that affect our lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil money penalties against us. We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in our allowance for loan losses. Due to recent economic conditions affecting the real estate market, many lending institutions, including us, have experienced substantial declines in the performance of their loans, including construction, land development loans and land loans. The value of real estate collateral supporting many construction and land development loans, land loans, commercial loans and multi-family loans have declined and may continue to decline. Recent negative developments in the financial industry and credit markets may continue to adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Further Downturn in Our Real Estate Markets Could Hurt Our Business Our business activities and credit exposure are primarily concentrated along the Front Range of Colorado. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 55% of the book value of our loan portfolio consisted of real estate loans. Substantially all of our real estate loans are located in Colorado. While we do not have any sub-prime loans, our construction, land development and land loan portfolio, along with our commercial and multi-family loan portfolios and certain of our other loans, have been affected by the recent downturn in the residential and commercial real estate market. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies and acts of nature. We anticipate that further declines in the real estate markets in our primary market areas would affect our business. If real estate values continue to decline, the collateral for our loans will provide less security. As a result, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. The events and conditions described in this risk factor could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents We May be Required to Make Further Increases in Our Provisions for Loan Losses and to Charge Off Additional Loans in the Future, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that represents management's best estimate of probable incurred losses within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management's continuing evaluation of specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions; industry concentrations and other unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and judgment and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Increases in nonperforming loans have a significant impact on our allowance for loan losses. Generally, our non-performing loans and assets reflect operating difficulties of individual borrowers resulting from weakness in the economy of the Front Range of Colorado. If current trends in the real estate markets continue, we expect that we will continue to experience increased delinquencies and credit losses, particularly with respect to construction, land development and land loans. Moreover, with the country currently in a recession, we expect that it will negatively impact economic conditions in our market areas and that we could experience significantly higher delinquencies and credit losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Furthermore, growth in the loan portfolio would generally lead to an increase in the provision for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See the section captioned "Allowance for Loan Losses" in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to our process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses. Liquidity Risk Could Impair Our Ability to Fund Operations and Jeopardize Our Financial Condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through traditional deposits, brokered deposits, borrowings, the sale of securities or loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. We rely on commercial and retail deposits, brokered deposits, advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") of Topeka and other borrowings to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary, we might not be able to 21 Table of Contents replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our results of operations or financial condition or the results of operations or financial condition of the FHLB of Topeka or market conditions were to change. In addition, if we fall below the FDIC's thresholds to be considered "well capitalized", we will be unable to continue with uninterrupted access to the brokered funds markets. Although we consider these sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs, there can be no assurance in this regard and we may be compelled to seek additional sources of financing in the future. Likewise, we may seek additional debt in the future to achieve our business objectives, in connection with future acquisitions or for other reasons. There can be no assurance additional borrowings, if sought, would be available to us or, if available, would be on favorable terms. Bank and holding company stock prices have been negatively affected by the recent adverse economic trend, as has the ability of banks and holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. If additional financing sources are unavailable or not available on reasonable terms, our financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially adversely affected. We actively monitor the depository institutions that hold our federal funds sold and due from banks cash balances. We are currently not able to provide assurances that access to our cash equivalents and federal funds sold will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. Our emphasis is primarily on safety of principal and we diversify our due from banks and federal funds sold among counterparties to minimize exposure to any one of these entities. The financials of the counterparties are routinely reviewed as part of our asset/liability management process. Balances in our accounts with financial institutions in the U.S. may exceed the FDIC insurance limits. While we monitor and adjust the balances in our accounts as appropriate, these balances could be impacted if the financial institutions fail and could be subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. Concern of Customers Over Deposit Insurance May Cause a Decrease in Deposits With recent increased concerns about bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit with their bank is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect our funding costs and net income. Our Deposit Insurance Premium Could be Substantially Higher in the Future, Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Future Earnings The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including the Bank. The FDIC charges the insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at a certain level. Current economic conditions have increased bank failures and expectations for further failures, in which case the FDIC ensures payments of deposits up to insured limits from the Deposit Insurance Fund. On October 16, 2008, the FDIC published a restoration plan designed to replenish the Deposit Insurance Fund over a period of five years and to increase the deposit insurance reserve ratio, which decreased to 1.01% of insured deposits on June 30, 2008, to the statutory minimum of 1.15% of insured deposits by December 31, 2013. In order to implement the restoration plan, the FDIC proposes to change both its risk-based assessment system and its base assessment rates. For the first quarter of 2009 only, the FDIC increased all FDIC deposit assessment rates by 7 basis points. These new rates range from 12-14 basis points for Risk Category I institutions to 50 basis points for Risk Category IV institutions. Under the FDIC's restoration plan, the FDIC proposes to establish new initial base assessment rates that will be subject to adjustment as described below. Beginning April 1, 2009, the base assessment rates would range from 10-14 basis points for Risk Category I institutions to 45 basis points for Risk Category IV institutions. Changes to the risk-based assessment system would include increasing premiums for institutions that rely on excessive amounts of brokered deposits, including 22 Table of Contents CDARS, increasing premiums for excessive use of secured liabilities, including Federal Home Loan Bank advances, lowering premiums for smaller institutions with very high capital levels, and adding financial ratios and debt issuer ratings to the premium calculations for banks with over $10 billion in assets, while providing a reduction for their unsecured debt. Either an increase in the Risk Category of the Bank or adjustments to the base assessment rates could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. We May Elect or be Compelled to Seek Additional Capital in the Future, But Capital May not be Available When it is Needed We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect to raise additional capital. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital as a result of deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors, which may diminish our ability to raise additional capital. On October 3, 2008, Congress approved the $700 billion Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA). The first phase of implementation of EESA included a $250 billion Treasury Capital Purchase Program. The Company applied for up to three-percent of its total risk-weighted assets in capital, which would be in the form of non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock of the institution with a dividend rate of 5% until the fifth anniversary of the investment, and 9% thereafter. If the Company's application is approved and the investment is completed, Treasury will also receive warrants for common stock of the Company equal to 15% of the capital invested. There is no guarantee that the Treasury will select the Company to participate in its Capital Purchase Program. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The Value of Securities in Our Investment Securities Portfolio May be Negatively Affected by Continued Disruptions In Securities Markets The market for some of the investment securities held in our portfolio has become extremely volatile over the past twelve months. Volatile market conditions may detrimentally affect the value of these securities, such as through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other than temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels. The Soundness of Other Financial Institutions Could Adversely Affect Us Since mid-2007, the financial services industry as a whole, as well as the securities markets generally, have been materially and adversely affected by very significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a very serious lack of liquidity. Financial institutions in particular have been subject to increased volatility and an overall loss in investor confidence. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial 23 Table of Contents services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We Are Subject to Extensive Government Regulation and Supervision We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination. Any change in the laws or regulations applicable to us, or in banking regulators' supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether by the Colorado Division of Banking, the FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board, other state or federal regulators, the U.S. Congress or the Colorado legislature could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Bank is subject to regulations promulgated by the Colorado Division of Banking, as its chartering authority, and by the FDIC as the insurer of its deposits up to certain limits. The bank also belongs to the Federal Home Loan Bank System and, as a member, it is subject to certain limited regulations promulgated by the Federal Home Loan Bank of Topeka. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board regulates and oversees Guaranty Bancorp as a bank holding company, and the Bank, as a member of the Federal Reserve System. This regulation and supervision limits the activities in which we may engage. The purpose of regulation and supervision is primarily to protect the FDIC's insurance fund and our depositors and borrowers, rather than our stockholders. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement powers. They may, among other things, impose restrictions on the operation of a banking institution, the classification of assets by such institution and such institution's allowance for loan losses. Regulatory and law enforcement authorities also have wide discretion and extensive enforcement powers under various consumer protection and civil rights laws, including the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Red Flag Identity Theft rules under the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act and Colorado's deceptive acts and practices law. These laws also permit private individual and class action lawsuits and provide for the recovery of attorneys fees in certain instances. Given the current disruption in the financial markets and regulatory initiatives that are likely to be proposed by the new administration and Congress, new regulations and laws that may affect us are increasingly likely. Compliance with such regulations and laws may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Also, participation in specific government stabilization programs may subject us to additional restrictions. No assurance can be given that the foregoing regulations and supervision will not change so as to affect us adversely. There can be no Assurance That the Recently Enacted Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the "EESA") and Other Recently Enacted Government Programs Will Help Stabilize the U.S. Financial System On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the "EESA") was enacted. The U.S. Treasury and banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation and otherwise to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system, including the TARP Capital Purchase Program. In addition, other regulators have taken steps to attempt to stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, such as the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program ("TLG Program"), which we did not "opt-out" of. However, there can be no assurance that we will 24 Table of Contents issue any guaranteed debt under the TLG Program, or that we will participate in any other stabilization programs in the future. There can also be no assurance as to the actual impact that the EESA and other programs will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the EESA and other programs to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. The EESA is relatively new legislation and, as such, is subject to change and evolving interpretation. This is particularly true given the change in administration that occurred on January 20, 2009. There can be no assurances as to the effects that such changes will have on the effectiveness of the EESA or on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our Profitability Depends Significantly on Economic Conditions in the Colorado Front Range Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the counties in which we conduct business. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in the Colorado Front Range, which includes the Denver metropolitan area. The local economic conditions in our market area have a significant impact on our loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, natural disasters, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control would affect these local economic conditions and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further deterioration in economic conditions, in particular within our primary market areas, could result in the following consequences, among others, any of which could hurt our business materially: loan delinquencies on real estate, commercial and consumer loans may increase; problem assets and foreclosures may increase; demand for our products and services may decline; and collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing a customer's borrowing power and reducing the value of assets and collateral securing our loans. In view of the concentration of our operations and the collateral securing our loan portfolio in Colorado's Front Range, we may be particularly susceptible to the adverse effects of any of these consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We Operate in a Highly Competitive Industry and Market Area We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional, and community banks within the various markets we serve. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Additionally, we expect competition to intensify among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic funds transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a 25 Table of Contents result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: •The ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets. •The ability to expand our market position. •The scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands. •The rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors. •Customer satisfaction with our level of service. •Industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We Rely on Dividends from Our Subsidiary for Most of Our Revenue Because we are a holding company with no significant assets other than the Bank, we currently depend upon dividends from the Bank for a substantial portion of our revenues. Our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders will therefore continue to depend in large part upon our receipt of dividends or other capital distributions from the Bank. Our ability to pay dividends is subject to the restrictions of the Delaware General Corporation Law. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends or make other capital distributions to the holding company is also subject to the regulatory authority of the Federal Reserve Board and the Colorado Division of Banking (CDB). Because of the accumulated deficit resulting from goodwill impairment charges in 2008 and 2007, the Bank will be required to obtain permission from the Federal Reserve Board and the CDB prior to making any dividend to the holding company, as further described in the "Supervision and Regulation" section of Item 1 of this report. During 2008, the Bank requested and received permission to pay $19 million in dividends from the Bank to the holding company. From time to time, we may become a party to financing agreements or other contractual arrangements that have the effect of limiting or prohibiting us or our bank subsidiary from declaring or paying dividends. Our holding company expenses and interest obligations on our trust preferred securities and corresponding subordinated debt securities issued by us may limit or impair our ability to declare or pay dividends. The holding company currently has approximately $3.5 million in cash on hand, which based on current projections, is sufficient to meet our short-term cash needs. If we are unable to obtain permission to pay dividends from the Bank to the holding company, or are unable to raise additional capital, it could cause us to elect to defer interest payments on the trust preferred securities and corresponding subordinated debt securities for up to 20 quarters. See "Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities—Dividends" for more information on these restrictions. We are Dependent on Key Personnel and the Loss of One or More of Those Key Personnel Could Harm Our Business Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of and experience in the Colorado community banking industry. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and 26 Table of Contents attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, administrative, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of our management and personnel. In particular, our success is highly dependent upon the abilities of our senior executive management. We believe this management team, comprised of individuals who have worked in the banking industry for many years, is integral to implementing our business plan. The loss of the services of one or more of them could harm our business. Our Controls and Procedures May Fail or Be Circumvented Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We are Subject to Security and Operational Risks Relating to Our Use of Technology That Could Damage Our Reputation and Our Business. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. Additionally, we outsource our data processing to a third party. If our third party provider encounters difficulties or if we have difficulty in communicating with such third party, it will significantly affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which would significantly affect our business operations. Furthermore, breaches of such third party's technology may also cause reimbursable loss to our consumer and business customers, through no fault of our own. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of information systems used to process customer transactions could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We Continually Encounter Technological Change The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 27 Table of Contents We Are Subject to Claims and Litigation Pertaining to Fiduciary Responsibility From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to our performance of our fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to our performance of our fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for our products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Concentrated Ownership of our Common Stock Creates a Risk of Sudden Changes in our Share Price As of February 9, 2009, executive officers, directors and stockholders of more than 5% of our common stock owned or controlled approximately 40.3% of our common stock. Investors who purchase our common stock may be subject to certain risks due to the concentrated ownership of our common stock. The sale by any of our large stockholders of a significant portion of that stockholder's holdings could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We Face Risks Associated With Acquisitions or Mergers We may pursue acquisition or merger opportunities in the future. Risks commonly encountered in merger and acquisitions include, among other things: •The difficulty of integrating the operations, systems and personnel of acquired companies and branches. •The potential disruption of our ongoing business. •The potential diversion of our management's time and attention. •The inability of our management to maximize our financial and strategic position by the successful implementation of uniform product offerings and the incorporation of uniform technology into our product offerings and control systems. •The inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies and the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in management. •The potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired or merged company. •Exposure to potential asset quality issues of the acquired or merged company. •The possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired or merged company. •Difficulty in estimating the value of the acquired or merged company. •Potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the acquired or merged company. •Environmental liability with acquired loans, and their collateral, or with any real estate. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with mergers or acquisitions. Our integration of operations of banks or branches that we acquire may not be successfully accomplished and may take a significant amount of time. Our inability to improve the operating performance of acquired banks and branches or to integrate successfully or in a timely manner their operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We expect to hire additional employees and retain 28 Table of Contents consultants to assist with integrating our operations, and we cannot assure you that those individuals or firms will perform as expected or be successful in addressing these issues. We are Exposed to Risk of Environmental Liabilities with Respect to Properties to Which We Take Title In the course of our business, we may own or foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, cash flows, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Severe Weather, Natural Disasters, Acts of War or Terrorism and Other External Events Could Significantly Impact Our Business Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base; impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 