D. Risk Factors The common shares of our company are considered speculative. Investing in our common shares involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties in addition to other information in this annual report in evaluating our company and our business before purchasing our common shares. Our business, operating or financial condition could be harmed due to any of the following risks. Risk Factors Relating to FreeSeas At December 31, 2012, FreeSeas’ current liabilities exceeded its current assets, which could impair its ability to successfully operate its business and could have material adverse effects on its revenues, cash flows and profitability and its ability to comply with its debt covenants and pay its debt service and other obligations. As a result of the historically low charter rates for drybulk vessels which have been affecting the Company for over three years, and the resulting material adverse impact on the Company’s results from operations, the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. The Company as of December 31, 2012 has cash and cash equivalents of $29 and based on its cash flow projections for 2013, the Company will not be able to make scheduled debt repayments as of December 31, 2012, interest payments as well as cover operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements for at least twelve months from the balance sheet date. The Company has incurred net losses of $30,888, $88,196 and $21,821 during the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company had working capital deficits of $70,973 and $47,186, respectively. All of the above raises substantial doubt regarding the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Management plans to continue to provide for its capital requirements by issuing additional equity securities and debt in addition to executing their business plan. The Company’s ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon its ability to obtain the necessary financing to meet its obligations and repay its liabilities arising from normal course of business operations when they come due and to generate profitable operations in the future. In addition, the Company has undertaken negotiations with each of its lenders to restructure its debt repayments. On May 31, 2012, the Company and Credit Suisse AG, or Credit Suisse entered into a Sixth Supplemental Agreement to its Facility Agreement with Credit Suisse, which provided for, among other things, a deferral of principal payments until March 31, 2014. On September 7, 2012, the Company entered into an amended and restated facility with Deutsche Bank Nederland N.V. or Deutsche Bank, which provides for, among other things, a reduction in and deferral of the balloon payment due on facility B from November 2012 to December 2015, a reduction in the amount of principal repayment and amendments to the financial covenants. In February, March, April, November and December 2012 and January 2013, the Company received notifications from FBB that the Company is in default under its loan agreements as a result of the breach of certain covenants and the failure to pay principal and interest due under the loan agreements. The Company is seeking and will continue to seek similar restructured loan terms from FBB. Also the Company did not pay the monthly repayments of $20 for each of Facility A and Facility B with Deutsche Bank along with accrued interest due in October, November and December 2012 and January, February and March 2013. As well in February, March and April 2013, the Company did not pay the interest due of $124 and the interest rate swaps due of $80, respectively, with the Credit Suisse facility. The Company is in discussions with both banks to reach a mutually beneficial agreement. If the Company is not able to reach agreement with FBB as to restructured loan terms, or if the Company is unable to comply with its restructured loan terms, this could lead to the acceleration of the outstanding debt under its debt agreements. The Company’s failure to satisfy its covenants under its debt agreements, and any consequent acceleration and cross acceleration of its outstanding indebtedness would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business operations, financial condition and liquidity. The Company is currently exploring several alternatives aiming to manage its working capital requirements and other commitments if current market charter hire rates remain at current low levels, including completion of the negotiations for the restructuring of its loan with FBB, offerings of common stock through structured financing agreements, disposition of certain vessels in its current fleet and additional reductions in operating and other costs. Generally accepted accounting principles require that long-term debt be classified as a current liability when a covenant violation gives the lender the right to call the debt at the balance sheet date, absent a waiver. As a result of the cross default provisions in the Company’s loan agreements, actual breaches existing under its credit facility with FBB could result in defaults under all of the Company’s affected debt and the acceleration of such debt by its lender. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2012, the Company was required to reclassify its long term debt and derivative financial instrument liability (interest rate swaps) as current liabilities on its consolidated balance sheet since the Company had not received waivers in respect of the breaches discussed above at such time. 6 We received a report from our independent registered public accounting firm with an explanatory paragraph for the year ended December 31, 2012 with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern. The existence of such a report may adversely affect our stock price and our ability to raise capital. There is no assurance that we will not receive a similar report for our year ended December 31, 2013. In their report dated April 19, 2013, our independent registered public accounting firm expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern as we have incurred recurring operating losses, have a working capital deficiency, have failed to meet scheduled payment obligations under our loan facilities and have not complied with certain covenants included in our loan agreements with banks. We have also failed to make required payments to Deutsche Bank as agreed to in our September 7, 2012 amended and restated facility agreement and received notices of default from FBB. Furthermore, if we were forced to liquidate our assets, the amount realized could be substantially lower than the carrying value of these assets. Our ability to continue as a going concern is subject to our ability to obtain necessary funding from outside sources, including obtaining additional funding from the sale of our securities, obtaining loans from various financial institutions or lenders where possible and restructuring outstanding debt obligations that are currently in default. Our continued net operating losses increase the difficulty in meeting such goals and there can be no assurances that such methods will prove successful. We have been in breach of certain loan covenants contained in our loan agreements. Although we have entered into amendments to two of our loan facilities, if we are not successful in obtaining a waiver and amendment from our other lender with respect to covenants breached, our lenders may declare an event of default and accelerate our outstanding indebtedness under the relevant agreement, which would impair our ability to continue to conduct our business, which raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our loan agreements require that we comply with certain financial and other covenants. As a result of the drop in our drybulk asset values we were not in compliance with the FBB facility covenants relating to vessel values as of December 31, 2012. In addition, we were in breach of interest cover ratios, leverage and minimum liquidity covenants with the FBB facility not previously waived. A violation of these covenants constitutes an event of default under our credit facility, which would, unless waived by our lender, provide our lender with the right to require us to post additional collateral, increase our interest payments and/or pay down our indebtedness to a level where we are in compliance with our loan covenants. Furthermore, our lender may accelerate our indebtedness and foreclose their liens on our vessels, in which case our vessels may be auctioned or otherwise transferred which would impair our ability to continue to conduct our business. As a result of these breaches, our total indebtedness is presented within current liabilities in the December 31, 2012 consolidated balance sheet. Pursuant to letter agreements dated September 6, 2011 and September 19, 2011 with Credit Suisse, which resolved a default by us under the Credit Suisse facility agreement, FreeSeas agreed to execute a sale contract in respect of either of the M/V Free Jupiter or the M/V Free Lady no later than October 10, 2011. On November 8, 2011, FreeSeas sold the M/V Free Lady for a sale price of $21.9 million. Pursuant to the Fifth Supplemental Agreement dated November 7, 2011 with Credit Suisse, FreeSeas agreed to enter into a period time charter of at least 12 months for all its mortgaged vessels no later than December 31, 2011, which charter would cover the vessel’s debt service plus $1.0 million. If the foregoing time charter was not entered into by the required date, FreeSeas agreed that it would sell either the M/V Free Jupiter or both the M/V Free Goddess and the M/V Free Hero by January 31, 2012. FreeSeas did not conclude any time charter agreement or any agreement for the sale of the above-mentioned vessels. On May 31, 2012, FreeSeas and Credit Suisse entered into a Sixth Supplemental Agreement to its Facility Agreement with Credit Suisse, which provided for, among other things, a deferral of principal payments until March 31, 2014. On September 7, 2012, FreeSeas entered into an amended and restated facility with Deutsche Bank, which provide for, among other things, a reduction in and deferral of the balloon payment due on facility B form November 2012 to December 2015, a reduction in the amount of principal repayment and amendments to the financial covenants. In February, March, April, November and December 2012 and January 2013, FreeSeas received notifications from FBB that FreeSeas is in default under its loan agreements as a result of the breach of certain covenants and the failure to pay principal and interest due under the loan agreements. FreeSeas is seeking and will continue to seek similar restructured loan terms from FBB. Also the Company did not pay the monthly repayments of $20 for each of Facility A and Facility B with Deutsche Bank along with accrued interest due in October, November and December 2012 and January, February and March 2013. As well in February and March and in April 2013, the Company did not pay the interest due of $124 and the interest rate swaps due of $80, respectively, with the Credit Suisse facility. The Company is in discussions with both banks to reach a mutually beneficial agreement. If FreeSeas is not able to reach agreement with FBB as to restructured loan terms, or if FreeSeas is unable to comply with its restructured loan terms, as the case is with Deutsche Bank and Credit Suisse, this could lead to the acceleration of the outstanding debt under its debt agreements. FreeSeas’ failure to satisfy its covenants under its debt agreements, and any consequent acceleration and cross acceleration of its outstanding indebtedness would have a material adverse effect on FreeSeas’ business operations, financial condition and liquidity. 7 Our loan agreements contain covenants that may limit our liquidity and corporate activities. If the drybulk market remains depressed or further declines, we may require further waivers and/or covenant amendments to our loan agreements relating to our compliance with certain covenants for certain periods of time. The waivers and/or covenant amendments may impose additional operating and financial restrictions on us and modify the terms of our existing loan agreements. Any such waivers or amendments, if needed, could contain such additional restrictions and might not be granted at all. Our loan agreements require that we maintain certain financial and other covenants. The low drybulk charter rates and drybulk vessel values have previously affected, and may in the future affect, our ability to comply with these covenants. A violation of these covenants constitutes an event of default under our credit facilities and would provide our lenders with various remedies, including the right to require us to post additional collateral, enhance our equity and liquidity, withhold payment of dividends, increase our interest payments, pay down our indebtedness to a level where we are in compliance with our loan covenants, sell vessels in our fleet, or reclassify our indebtedness as current liabilities. Our lenders could also accelerate our indebtedness and foreclose their liens on our vessels. The exercise of any of these remedies could materially adversely impair our ability to continue to conduct our business. Moreover, our lenders may require the payment of additional fees, require prepayment of a portion of our indebtedness to them, accelerate the amortization schedule for our indebtedness and increase the interest rates they charge us on our outstanding indebtedness. As a result of our loan covenants, our lenders have imposed operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability to: ·incur additional indebtedness; ·create liens on our assets; ·sell capital stock of our subsidiaries; ·make investments; ·engage in mergers or acquisitions; ·pay dividends; ·make capital expenditures; ·change the management of our vessels or terminate or materially amend our management agreements; and ·sell our vessels. The amended and restated credit agreement dated September 7, 2012 with Deutsche Bank does not allow us to pay dividends without their prior written approval, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld. In addition, the Sixth Supplemental agreement dated May 31, 2012 with Credit Suisse does allow us to pay dividends after March 31, 2014 provided: i) that at the time of such payment no default has occurred or would occur as a result of such payment; ii) at the time of such payment the market value of the aggregate fair market value of the financed vessels is not less than 135% of the outstanding loan balance at such time plus the swap exposure minus the aggregate amount, if any, standing to the credit of the operating accounts, the retention account and any bank accounts of the Company opened with the bank; iii) between May 31, 2012 and the date of such payment of dividend or distribution, a part of the loan which is not less than $11,300 has been prepaid and a part of the commitment which is not less than $11,300 has been permanently reduced; and iv) the amount of such dividends in respect of a financial year does not exceed 50% of the consolidated net profit of the Company for that financial year. If we need covenant waivers, our lenders may impose additional restrictions and may require the payment of additional fees, require prepayment of a portion of our indebtedness to them, accelerate the amortization schedule for our indebtedness, and increase the interest rates they charge us on our outstanding indebtedness. We may be required to use a significant portion of the net proceeds from any future capital raising to repay a portion of our outstanding indebtedness. We agreed with Credit Suisse and Deutsche Bank to raise no less than $25.0 million by March 31, 2014, one third of which amount will be used to repay our existing debt. This provision does not apply to the proceeds from sales of our common stock under equity line facilities. These potential restrictions and requirements may limit our ability to pay dividends to you, finance our future operations, make acquisitions or pursue business opportunities. 8 Once the payment reductions and holidays agreed to by two of our three lenders expire, we will again be obligated to make significant payments to service our debt. As a result of amendments to our loan facilities agreed to this year with Credit Suisse, and Deutsche Bank, we have substantially reduced our current debt repayment obligations. These amendments provide for deferred principal repayments until June 30, 2014, for the Credit Suisse facility, and reduced payments until May 31, 2013 and then a deferral of further payments until June 30, 2014 for Deutsche Bank. Following these deferral periods, however, our payment obligations increase significantly and we will have balloon payments due in December 2015 under the Credit Suisse facility and the Deutsche Bank facilities. These required payments will limit funds otherwise available for working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes. Our inability to service our debt could lead to acceleration of our debt and foreclosures of our fleet. We may not be able to generate cash flow in amounts that are sufficient for these purposes. We depend upon a few significant customers for a large part of our revenues. The loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect our financial performance. We have historically derived a significant part of our revenue from a small number of charterers. During 2012, we derived approximately 42% of our gross revenue from three charterers, and during 2011, we derived approximately 53% of our gross revenues from three charterers. If we do remain dependent, in large part, on a small number of charterers, if one or more of our charterers is unable to perform under one or more charters with us, if we are not able to find appropriate replacement charterers, or if a charterer exercises certain rights to terminate its charter, we could suffer a loss of revenues that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The international drybulk shipping industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources. We employ our vessels in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of which have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of drybulk cargo by sea is intense and depends on price, customer relationships, operating expertise, professional reputation and size, age, location and condition of the vessel. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, additional competitors with greater resources could enter the drybulk shipping industry and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions and may be able to offer lower charter rates than we are able to offer, which could have a material adverse effect on our fleet utilization and, accordingly, our profitability. We currently rely on our Manager to manage and charter our fleet. We currently have no employees and contract all of our financial, accounting, including our financial reporting and internal controls, and other back-office services, and the management of our fleet, including crewing, maintenance and repair, through Free Bulkers, S.A., our Manager. We rely on our Manager to provide the technical management of our fleet and to attract charterers and charter brokers. The loss of its services or failure to perform its obligations could reduce our revenues and net income and adversely affect our operations and business if we are not able to contract with other companies to provide these services or take over these aspects of our business directly. FreeSeas has no control over our Manager. Our Manager is not liable to us for any losses or damages, if any, that may result from its management of our fleet unless the same shall have resulted from willful misconduct or gross negligence of our Manager or any person to whom performance of the management services has been delegated by our Manager. Pursuant to its agreement with us, our Manager’s liability for such acts, except in certain limited circumstances, may not exceed ten times the annual management fee payable by the applicable subsidiary to our Manager. Although we may have rights against our Manager, if our Manager defaults on its obligations to us, we may have no recourse against our Manager. Further, we will need approval from our lenders if we intend to replace our Manager as our fleet manager. We and one of our executive officers have affiliations with our Manager that could create conflicts of interest detrimental to us. Our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Ion G. Varouxakis, is also the controlling shareholder and officer of our Manager. These dual responsibilities of our officer and the relationships between the two companies could create conflicts of interest between our Manager and us. Each of our operating subsidiaries has a nonexclusive management agreement with our Manager. Although our Manager currently serves as manager for vessels owned by us, our Manager is not restricted from entering into management agreements with other competing shipping companies. Our Manager could also allocate charter and/or vessel purchase and sale opportunities to others. There can be no assurance that our Manager would resolve any conflicts of interest in a manner beneficial to us. 9 Management and service fees are payable to our Manager, regardless of our profitability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The management and service fees due from us to our Manager are payable whether or not our vessels are employed, and regardless of our profitability. We have no ability to require our Manager to reduce the management fees and service fees if our profitability decreases, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Manager is a privately held company, and there is little or no publicly available information about it. The ability of our Manager to continue providing services for our benefit will depend in part on its own financial strength. Circumstances beyond our control could impair our Manager’s financial strength. Because our Manager is privately held, it is unlikely that information about its financial strength would become public or available to us prior to any default by our Manager under the management agreement. As a result, an investor in us might have little advance warning of problems that affect our Manager, even though those problems could have a material adverse effect on us. As part of its services to us, our Manager must continue to upgrade its operational, accounting and financial systems, and add more staff. If our Manager cannot upgrade these systems or recruit suitable additional employees, its services to us and, therefore, our performance may suffer. Our current operating, internal control, accounting and financial systems are provided by our Manager and may not be adequate if our Manager’s efforts to improve those systems may be ineffective. If our Manager cannot continue to upgrade its operational and financial systems effectively or recruit suitable employees, its services to us and, therefore, our performance may suffer and our ability to expand our business further will be restricted. We and our Manager may be unable to attract and retain key executive officers with experience in the shipping industry, which may reduce the effectiveness of our management and lower our results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our and our Manager’s executive officers. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Our success will depend on retaining these key members of our and our Manager’s management team. Difficulty in retaining our executive officers, and difficulty in our Manager retaining its executive officers, could adversely affect our results of operations and ability to pay dividends. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance on any of our officers. We intend to continue to charter most of our vessels in the spot market, and as a result, we will be exposed to the cyclicality and volatility of the spot charter market. Since we intend to continue to charter our vessels in the spot market, we will be exposed to the cyclicality and volatility of the spot charter market, and we may not have long term, fixed time charter rates to mitigate the adverse effects of downturns in the spot market. Handysize and Handymax vessels, which we currently operate, have been less volatile compared to larger vessels such as Panamax and Capesize vessels but this may discontinue in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully charter our vessels in the future at rates sufficient to allow us to meet our obligations. The supply of and demand for shipping capacity strongly influences freight rates. Because the factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable, the nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. Factors that influence demand for drybulk vessel capacity include: • demand for and production of drybulk products; • global and regional economic and political conditions including developments in international trade, fluctuations in industrial and agricultural production and armed conflicts; • the distance drybulk cargo is to be moved by sea; • environmental and other regulatory developments; and • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. • The factors that influence the supply of drybulk vessel capacity include: 10 • the number of newbuilding deliveries; • port and canal congestion; • the scrapping rate of older vessels; • vessel casualties; and • the number of vessels that are out of service, i.e., laid-up, drydocked, awaiting repairs or otherwise not available for hire. In addition to the prevailing and anticipated freight rates, factors that affect the rate of newbuilding, scrapping and laying-up include newbuilding prices, secondhand vessel values in relation to scrap prices, costs of bunkers and other operating costs, costs associated with classification society surveys, normal maintenance and insurance coverage, the efficiency and age profile of the existing fleet in the market and government and industry regulation of maritime transportation practices, particularly environmental protection laws and regulations. These factors influencing the supply of and demand for shipping capacity are outside of our control, and we may not be able to correctly assess the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions. We anticipate that the future demand for our drybulk carriers will be dependent upon economic growth in the world’s economies, including China, Japan and India, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the global drybulk carrier fleet and the sources and supply of drybulk cargo to be transported by sea. The capacity of the global drybulk carrier fleet seems likely to increase, and we can provide no assurance as to the timing or extent of future economic growth. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Should the drybulk market strengthen significantly in the future, we may enter into medium to long term employment contracts for some or all of our vessels. With the exemption of the M/V Free Goddess, M/V Free Impala and the M/V Free Maverick, we currently employ our vessels in the spot market, all with charters scheduled to expire within one to two months, by which time we will have to negotiate new employment for these vessels. If the rates in the charter market fall significantly throughout 2013, it will affect the charter revenue we will receive from our vessels, which would have an adverse effect on our revenues, cash flows and profitability, as well as our ability to comply with our debt covenants. When our charters in the spot market end, we may not be able to replace them promptly, and any replacement charters could be at lower charter rates, which may materially, adversely affect our earnings and results of operations. We will generally attempt to recharter our vessels at favorable rates with reputable charterers. All of our vessels currently operate in the spot market. If the drybulk shipping market is in a period of depression when our vessels’ charters expire, it is likely that we may be forced to re-charter them at reduced rates, if such charters are available at all. In the event charter rates fall below our costs to operate a vessel or for any other strategic or operational matter, we may determine not to recharter a vessel until such time as the charter rates increase or such strategic or operational matter ceases to exist. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain new charters at comparable or higher rates or with comparable charterers, that we will be able to obtain new charters at all or that we may decide not to charter a vessel at all. The charterers under our charters have no obligation to renew or extend the charters. We will generally attempt to recharter our vessels at favorable rates with reputable charterers as our charters expire. Failure to obtain replacement charters at rates comparable to our existing charters and our decision not to charter vessels will reduce or eliminate our revenue and will adversely affect our ability to service our debt. Further, we may have to incur lay-up expenses or reposition our vessels without cargo or compensation to deliver them to future charterers or to move vessels to areas where we believe that future employment may be more likely or advantageous. Laying up expenses and reactivating expenses would increase our vessel operating expenses. Repositioning our vessels would increase our vessel operating costs. If any of the foregoing events were to occur, our revenues, net income and earnings may be materially adversely affected. Further declines in charter rates and other market deterioration could cause us to incur impairment charges. We evaluate the recoverable amounts of our vessels to determine if events have occurred that would require an impairment of their carrying amounts. The recoverable amount of vessels is reviewed based on events and changes in circumstances that would indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recovered. The review for potential impairment indicators and future undiscounted net operating cash flows related to the vessels is complex and requires us to make various estimates including future charter rates and earnings from the vessels which have been historically volatile. 11 When our estimate of future undiscounted net operating cash flows for any vessel is lower than the vessel’s carrying value, the carrying value is written down, by recording a charge to operations, to the vessel’s fair market value if the fair market value is lower than the vessel’s carrying value. The carrying values of our vessels may not represent their fair market value because the market prices of secondhand vessels tend to fluctuate with changes in charter rates and the cost of newbuildings. Any impairment charges incurred as a result of declines in charter rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our charterers may terminate or default on their charters, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. The ability of each of our charterers to perform its obligations under a charter will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control. These factors may include general economic conditions, the condition of the drybulk shipping industry, the charter rates received for specific types of vessels, hedging arrangements, the ability of charterers to obtain letters of credit from its customers, cash reserves, cash flow considerations and various operating expenses. Many of these factors impact the financial viability of our charterers. Charterers may not pay or may attempt to renegotiate charter rates. Should a charterer fail to honor its obligations under its agreement with us, it may be difficult for us to secure substitute employment for the affected vessel, and any new charter arrangements we secure in the spot market or on a time charter may be at lower rates. We lose a charterer or the benefits of a charter if a charterer fails to make charter payments because of its financial inability, disagreements with us or otherwise, terminates the charter because we fail to deliver the vessel within the time specified in the charter, the vessel is lost or damaged beyond repair, there are serious deficiencies in the vessel or prolonged periods of off-hire, default under the charter or the vessel has been subject to seizure for more than a specified number of days. The M/V Free Jupiter was on time charter with Korea Line Corp, or KLC, a South Korean company, from June 8, 2007 until she was re-delivered to us on February 22, 2011. KLC made several unilateral deductions from hire payments during the three-year course of the time charter, and no hire was received from KLC from February 8, 2011 until the actual redelivery of the vessel on February 22, 2011. The Company commenced arbitration proceedings against KLC, and has taken action to obtain security, including the arrest of KLC assets. As a result, the Company obtained third-party security in the amount of $1.68 million (which includes provision for interest and legal costs) in the form of a letter of undertaking from KLC’s P&I club covering KLC’s unilateral deductions from the hire. The Company also obtained cash security held in escrow in the amount of $182 from the execution of a lien on sub-hires. KLC has counterclaimed by way of set-off, alleging that KLC is entitled to retain the amount of hire that was deducted because of the Company’s alleged breach of charterparty. The Company denies these allegations and continues to assert its claim to recover the full amount deducted by KLC. On January 25, 2011, KLC announced that it had filed a petition for the rehabilitation proceeding for court receivership in the Seoul Central District Court, and the court approved and confirmed a rehabilitation plan. Upon the issuance of the final award of the arbitration tribunal, and for any amount in excess of the third-party security and cash security, the Company may participate in the approved rehabilitation plan. On January 17, 2012, the Company obtained an interim award under which it was awarded the part of the claim that KLC had admitted was undisputed, $832, plus interest, legal costs, and the cost of the tribunal. Following the interim award, the Company received approximately $335. The majority of the balance of $511 that has been awarded is unsecured. The Company is considering its options if KLC does not pay the balance, including the possibility of pursuing this in the Korean rehabilitation proceedings, where the hearing of the Company’s claim has been stayed pending the outcome of the London arbitration. The Company believes that, if the Korean claim succeeds, the Company should make a recovery in accordance with the rehabilitation plan, which has been approved by the Korean court. The Company intends to seek a further award (if this matter does not settle) for the disputed balance, which is adequately secured. Despite above actions, the Company wrote-off the remaining outstanding balance $1,173 of the KLC time charter which is included in "Provision and write-offs of insurance claims and bad debts" of the accompanying consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012. If our charterers fail to meet their obligations to us, we would experience material adverse effects on our revenues, cash flows and profitability and our ability to comply with our debt covenants and pay our debt service and other obligations. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional debt financing that we will require to acquire additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such financing. Our inability to obtain additional financing at all, or at a higher than anticipated cost, may materially impair our ability to implement our business strategy. Charter rates are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may adversely affect our operating results. Our fleet consists of Handysize and Handymax drybulk carriers that operate in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results. The energy markets primarily affect the demand for coal, with increases during hot summer periods when air conditioning and refrigeration require more electricity and towards the end of the calendar year in anticipation of the forthcoming winter period. Grain shipments are driven by the harvest within a climate zone. Because three of the five largest grain producers (the United States, Canada and the European Union) are located in the northern hemisphere and the other two (Argentina and Australia) are located in the southern hemisphere, harvests occur throughout the year and grains require drybulk shipping accordingly. As a result of these and other factors, the drybulk shipping industry is typically stronger in the fall and winter months. Therefore, we expect our revenues from our drybulk carriers to be typically weaker during the fiscal quarters ending June 30 and September 30 and, conversely, we expect our revenues from our drybulk carriers to be typically stronger in fiscal quarters ending December 31 and March 31. Seasonality in the drybulk industry could materially affect our operating results. 12 The aging of our fleet may result in increased operating costs in the future, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our vessels profitably. The majority of our vessels were acquired second-hand, and we estimate their useful lives to be 28 years from their date of delivery from the yard, depending on various market factors and management’s ability to comply with government and industry regulatory requirements. As of December 31, 2012, the average age of the vessels in our current fleet was 15 years. Part of our business strategy includes the continued acquisition of second hand vessels when we find attractive opportunities. In general, expenditures necessary for maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increase as a vessel ages. Second hand vessels may also develop unexpected mechanical and operational problems despite adherence to regular survey schedules and proper maintenance. Cargo insurance rates also tend to increase with a vessel’s age, and older vessels tend to be less fuel-efficient than newer vessels. While the difference in fuel consumption is factored into the freight rates that our older vessels earn, if the cost of bunker fuels were to increase significantly, it could disproportionately affect our vessels and significantly lower our profits. In addition, changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards may require: • expenditures for alterations to existing equipment; • the addition of new equipment; or • restrictions on the type of cargo a vessel may transport. We cannot give assurances that future market conditions will justify such expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their economic lives. Although we inspect the secondhand vessels that we acquire prior to purchase, this inspection does not provide us with the same knowledge about a vessel’s condition and the cost of any required (or anticipated) repairs that we would have had if this vessel had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Generally, we do not receive the benefit of warranties on secondhand vessels. Unless we set aside reserves or are able to borrow funds for vessel replacement, at the end of a vessel’s useful life our revenue will decline, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Unless we maintain reserves or are able to borrow or raise funds for vessel replacement, we may be unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives, which we expect to be 28 years from their date of delivery from the yard. Our cash flows and income are dependent on the revenues earned by the chartering of our vessels to customers. If we are unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives, our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay dividends will be materially and adversely affected. Any reserves set aside for vessel replacement may not be available for dividends. If any of our vessels fail to maintain their class certification and/or fail any annual survey, intermediate survey, dry-docking or special survey, that vessel would be unable to carry cargo, thereby reducing our revenues and profitability and violating certain loan covenants of our third-party indebtedness. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention, or SOLAS. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys, dry-dockings and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel’s machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Our vessels are on special survey cycles for hull inspection and continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection. Every vessel is also required to be dry-docked every two to three years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. If any vessel does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey, dry-docking or special survey, the vessel will be unable to carry cargo between ports and will be unemployable and uninsurable, thereby reducing our revenues and profitability. That could also cause us to be in violation of certain covenants in our loan agreements. In addition, the cost of maintaining our vessels’ classifications may be substantial at times and could result in reduced revenues. 13 Our vessels may suffer damage and we may face unexpected dry-docking costs, which could affect our cash flow and financial condition. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a dry-docking facility, resulting in vessel downtime and vessel off-hire. The costs of dry-dock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to pay dry-docking costs that our insurance does not cover. The inactivity of these vessels while they are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. In addition, space at dry-docking facilities is sometimes limited and not all dry-docking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable dry-docking facility or we may be forced to move to a dry-docking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels’ positions. The loss of earnings while our vessels are forced to wait for space or to relocate to dry-docking facilities that are farther away from the routes on which our vessels trade would also decrease our earnings. Our growth depends on the growth in demand for and the shipping of drybulk cargoes. Our growth strategy focuses on the drybulk shipping sector. Accordingly, our growth depends on growth in world and regional demand for and the shipping of drybulk cargoes, which could be negatively affected by a number of factors, such as declines in prices for drybulk cargoes or general political and economic conditions. Reduced demand for and the shipping of drybulk cargoes would have a material adverse effect on our future growth and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In particular, Asian Pacific economies and India have been the main driving force behind the past increase in seaborne drybulk trade and the demand for drybulk carriers. The negative change in economic conditions in any Asian Pacific country, but particularly in China or Japan, as well as India, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, by further reducing demand and resultant charter rates. If we fail to manage our growth properly, we may not be able to successfully expand our market share. We will continue exploring expansion opportunities as our financial resources permit. Our growth will depend on: • locating and acquiring suitable vessels; • placing newbuilding orders and taking delivery of vessels; • identifying and consummating acquisitions or joint ventures; • integrating any acquired vessel successfully with our existing operations; • enhancing our customer base; • managing our expansion; and • obtaining the required financing. If our financial resources permit, we could face risks in connection with growth by acquisition, such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations and difficulty experienced in obtaining additional qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and suppliers, and integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures. We cannot give any assurance that we will be successful in executing our growth plans or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with the execution of those growth plans. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan depends on our ability to obtain additional financing, which may affect the value of your investment in us. We plan to continue to explore expansion opportunities. We will require substantial additional financing to fund any acquisitions of additional vessels and to implement our business plan. We cannot be certain that sufficient financing will be available on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If we cannot raise the financing we need in a timely manner and on acceptable terms, we may not be able to acquire the vessels necessary to implement our business plans and consequently you may lose some or all of your investment in us. 14 While we expect that a significant portion of the financing resources needed to acquire vessels, if any, will be through long-term debt financing, we may raise additional funds through additional equity offerings. New equity investors may dilute the percentage of the ownership interest of our existing shareholders. Sales or the possibility of sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public markets could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If we acquire additional drybulk carriers and those vessels are not delivered on time or are delivered with significant defects, our earnings and financial condition could suffer. We expect to acquire additional vessels in the future. A delay in the delivery of any of these vessels to us or the failure of the contract counterparty to deliver a vessel at all could cause us to breach our obligations under a related time charter and could adversely affect our earnings, our financial condition and the amount of dividends, if any, that we pay in the future. The delivery of these vessels could be delayed or certain events may arise which could result in us not taking delivery of a vessel, such as a total loss of a vessel, a constructive loss of a vessel, or substantial damage to a vessel prior to delivery. In addition, the delivery of any of these vessels with substantial defects could have similar consequences. The market values of our vessels have declined and may further decrease, and we may incur losses when we sell vessels or we may be required to write down their carrying value, which may adversely affect our earnings and our ability to implement our fleet renewal program. The market values of our vessels will fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry and prevailing charter hire rates, competition from other shipping companies and other modes of transportation, the types, sizes and ages of our vessels, applicable governmental regulations and the cost of newbuildings. If a determination is made that a vessel’s future useful life is limited or its future earnings capacity is reduced, it could result in an impairment of its carrying amount on our financial statements that would result in a charge against our earnings and the reduction of our shareholders’ equity. If for any reason we sell our vessels at a time when prices have fallen, the sale price may be less than the vessels’ carrying amount on our financial statements, and we would incur a loss and a reduction in earnings. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we incurred an impairment loss of $12,480 due to expected sales of certain vessels. We have incurred secured debt under loan agreements for all of our vessels. The market value of our vessels is based, in part, on charter rates and the stability of charter rates over a period of time. As a result of global economic conditions, volatility in charter rates, generally declining charter rates, and other factors, we have recently experienced a decrease in the market value of our vessels. Due to the decline of the market value of our fleet, we were not in compliance with certain covenants of our existing loan agreements that relate to maintenance of asset values and, as a result, we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing. There can be no assurances that charter rates will stabilize or increase, that the market value of our vessels will stabilize or increase or that we will regain compliance with the financial covenants in our loan agreements or that our lenders will agree to waivers or forbearances. On November 8, 2011, we sold the M/V Free Lady for a sale price of $21.9 million. If we fail to sell our other vessels currently held for sale (the M/V Free Hero, the M/V Free Jupiter , the M/V Free Impala , and the M/V Free Neptune ), or fail to sell them at prices acceptable to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitiveness and business operations. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder, such as our lenders, may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arresting or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of funds to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner or managed by the same manager. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one of our vessels for claims relating to another of our vessels or a vessel managed by our Manager. On November 5, 2012, the M/V Free Maverick was arrested in Morocco in relation to claims against the M/V Free Maverick and “sister ships”. As a result, the M/V Free Maverick is idle pending a resolution with the creditors. 15 Economic conditions and regulatory pressures impacting banks in Greece may cause disruptions to one of our lenders, which may cause an increase in the cost of our borrowings from that lender. One of our lenders is FBB, located in Greece. As a result of the recent financial crisis in Greece, Greek banks have been under significant pressure from the applicable banking regulators to increase capital, increase earnings or merge with other banks. There can be no assurances that our banking relationship with FBB would continue if FBB were to merge with another bank or that FBB might not attempt to invoke provisions in our loan agreement that permits it to pass along increases in its cost of regulations. In either event, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The smuggling of drugs or other contraband onto our vessels may lead to governmental claims against us. We expect that our vessels will call in ports in South America and other areas where smugglers are known to attempt to hide drugs and other contraband on vessels, with or without the knowledge of crew members. To the extent our vessels are found with contraband, whether inside or attached to the hull of our vessel and whether with or without the knowledge of any of our crew, we may face governmental or other regulatory claims which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our profits. Upon redelivery of vessels at the end of a period time or trip time charter, we may be obligated to repurchase bunkers on board at prevailing market prices, which could be materially higher than fuel prices at the inception of the charter period. In addition, although we rarely deploy our vessels on voyage charters, fuel is a significant, if not the largest, expense that we would incur with respect to vessels operating on voyage charter. As a result, an increase in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability. The price and supply of fuel is volatile and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns and regulations. We are subject to regulation and liability under environmental laws and the failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to increased liability, may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. This could require significant expenditures and reduce our cash flows and net income. Our business and the operation of our vessels are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions and national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which the vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration, including those governing the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of oil spills and other contamination, air emissions, and water discharges and ballast water management. We are also required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our operations. Because such conventions, laws, regulations and permit requirements are often revised, or the required additional measures for compliance are still under development, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with such conventions, laws, regulations or permit requirements, or the impact thereof on the resale prices or useful lives of our vessels. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted which could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental requirements can also affect the resale prices or useful lives of our vessels or require reductions in cargo capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions. Failure to comply with these requirements could lead to decreased availability of or more costly insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations and claims for natural resource, personal injury and property damages in the event that there is a release of petroleum or other hazardous materials from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our operations. The 2010 explosion of the Deepwater Horizon and the subsequent release of oil into the Gulf of Mexico or similar events may result in further regulation of the shipping industry, including modifications to statutory liability schemes. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the International Safety Management, or ISM Code. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject such party to increased liability, may decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels, and/or may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. The European Union is currently considering proposals to further regulate vessel operations. Individual countries in the European Union may also have additional environmental and safety requirements. It is difficult to predict what legislation or regulation, if any, may be adopted by the European Union or any other country or authority. 16 The International Maritime Organization or other regulatory bodies may adopt additional regulations in the future that could adversely affect the useful lives of our vessels as well as our ability to generate income from them or resell them at attractive prices. The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, established an extensive regulatory and liability regime for the protection and clean-up of the environment from oil spills. Under OPA, vessel owners, operators and bareboat charterers are “responsible parties” and are jointly, severally and strictly liable (unless the spill results solely from the act or omission of a third party, an act of God or an act of war) for all containment and clean-up costs and other damages arising from discharges or threatened discharges of oil from their vessels, including bunkers (fuel). Violations of, or liabilities under, environmental or other applicable laws and regulations can result in substantial penalties, fines and other sanctions, including, in certain instances, seizure or detention of our vessels. Events of this nature could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Technological innovation related to existing or new vessels could reduce the competitiveness of our older vessels and therefore the value of such vessels in the chartering and secondhand resale markets. The charter hire rates and the value and operational life of a vessel are determined by a number of factors, including the vessel’s efficiency, operational flexibility and physical life. Efficiency includes speed, fuel economy and the ability to load and discharge cargo quickly. Flexibility includes the ability to enter harbors, utilize related docking facilities and pass through canals and straits. The length of a vessel’s physical life is related to its original design and construction, its maintenance and the impact of the stress of operations. If new drybulk carriers are built that are more efficient or more flexible or have longer physical lives than our older vessels, competition from these more technologically advanced vessels could adversely affect the competitiveness of our older vessels, and, in turn, the amount of charter hire payments we receive for our older vessels once their initial charters expire, and the resale value of our older vessels could significantly decrease. Our vessels are exposed to inherent operational risks that may not be adequately covered by our insurance. The operation of any vessel includes risks such as mechanical failure, collision, fire, contact with floating objects, cargo or property loss or damage and business interruption due to political circumstances in foreign countries, piracy, terrorist attacks, armed hostilities and labor strikes. With a drybulk carrier, the cargo itself and its interaction with the ship can be a risk factor. By their nature, drybulk cargoes are often heavy, dense, easily shifted, and react badly to water exposure. In addition, drybulk carriers are often subjected to battering treatment during unloading operations with grabs, jackhammers (to pry encrusted cargoes out of the hold), and small bulldozers. This treatment may cause damage to the vessel. Vessels damaged due to treatment during unloading procedures may be more susceptible to breach to the sea. Hull breaches in drybulk carriers may lead to the flooding of the vessels’ holds. If a drybulk carrier suffers flooding in its forward holds, the bulk cargo may become so dense and waterlogged that its pressure may buckle the vessel’s bulkheads leading to the loss of a vessel. If we are unable to adequately maintain our vessels we may be unable to prevent these events. Any of these circumstances or events could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, such occurrences could result in death or injury to persons, loss of property or environmental damage, delays in the delivery of cargo, loss of revenues from or termination of charter contracts, governmental fines, penalties or restrictions on conducting business, higher insurance rates and damage to our reputation and customer relationships generally. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden and Indian Ocean off the coast of Somalia and Kenya. If these attacks and other disruptions result in areas where our vessels are deployed being characterized by insurers as “war risk” zones or Joint War Committee “war, strikes, terrorism and related perils” listed areas, as the Gulf of Aden currently is, premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult or impossible to obtain. In addition, there is always the possibility of a marine disaster, including oil spills and other environmental damage. Although our vessels carry a relatively small amount of the oil used for fuel (“bunkers”), a spill of oil from one of our vessels or losses as a result of fire or explosion could be catastrophic under certain circumstances. We may not be adequately insured against all risks, and our insurers may not pay particular claims. With respect to war risks insurance, which we usually obtain for certain of our vessels making port calls in designated war zone areas, such insurance may not be obtained prior to one of our vessels entering into an actual war zone, which could result in that vessel not being insured. Even if our insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to timely obtain a replacement vessel in the event of a loss. Under the terms of our credit facilities, we will be subject to restrictions on the use of any proceeds we may receive from claims under our insurance policies. Furthermore, in the future, we may not be able to maintain or obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet. We may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive indemnity insurance coverage for tort liability. Our insurance policies also contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions which, although we believe are standard in the shipping industry, may nevertheless increase our costs in the event of a claim or decrease any recovery in the event of a loss. If the damages from a catastrophic oil spill or other marine disaster exceeded our insurance coverage, the payment of those damages could have a material adverse effect on our business and could possibly result in our insolvency. 17 In addition, we may not carry loss of hire insurance. Loss of hire insurance covers the loss of revenue during extended vessel off-hire periods, such as those that occur during an unscheduled drydocking due to damage to the vessel from accidents. Accordingly, any loss of a vessel or any extended period of vessel off-hire, due to an accident or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to increased premium payments because we obtain some of our insurance through protection and indemnity associations. We may be subject to increased premium payments, or calls, in amounts based not only on our and our Manager’s claim records but also the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive insurance coverage for tort liability, including pollution-related liability. Our protection and indemnity associations may not have enough resources to cover claims made against them. Our payment of these calls could result in significant expense to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our operations expose us to global political risks, such as wars and political instability that may interfere with the operation of our vessels causing a decrease in revenues from such vessels. We are an international company and primarily conduct our operations outside the United States. Changing economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we are engaged in business or where our vessels are registered will affect us. In the past, political conflicts, particularly in the Middle East, resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt shipping in the area. For example, recent political and governmental instability in Egypt, Syria and Libya may affect vessels trading in such regions. In addition, future political and governmental instability, revolutions and wars in regions where our vessels trade could affect our trade patterns and adversely affect our operations by causing delays in shipping on certain routes or making shipping impossible on such routes, thereby causing a decrease in revenues. During a period of war or emergency, a government could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner. A government could also requisition our vessels for hire, when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels could reduce our revenues and net income. Because our seafaring employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, failure of industry groups to renew those agreements may disrupt our operations and adversely affect our earnings. All of the seafarers employed on the vessels in our fleet are covered by collective bargaining agreements that set basic standards. We cannot assure you that these agreements will prevent labor interruptions. Any labor interruptions could disrupt our operations and harm our financial performance. Crew costs are a significant expense for us under our charters. Recently, the limited supply of and increased demand for well-qualified crew, due to the increase in the size of the global shipping fleet, has created upward pressure on crewing costs, which we generally bear under our period time and spot charters. Increases in crew costs may adversely affect our profitability. Increases in interest rates would reduce funds available to purchase vessels and service debt. We have purchased, and may purchase in the future, vessels with loans that provide for periodic interest payments based on indices that fluctuate with changes in market interest rates. If interest rates increase significantly, it would increase our costs of financing our acquisition of vessels, which could decrease the number of additional vessels that we could acquire and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and may adversely affect our ability to service debt. The derivative contracts we have entered into to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates could result in higher than market interest rates and charges against our income. We have entered into two interest rate swaps for purposes of managing our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates applicable to indebtedness under two of our credit facilities with Credit Suisse, which provide for a floating interest rate based on LIBOR. Our hedging strategies, however, may not be effective and we may incur substantial losses if interest rates move materially differently from the fixed rates agreed to in our derivative contracts. Since our existing interest rate swaps do not, and future derivative contracts may not, qualify for treatment as hedges for accounting purposes, we recognize fluctuations in the fair value of such contracts in our income statement. In addition, our financial condition could be materially adversely affected to the extent we do not hedge our exposure to interest rate fluctuations under our financing arrangements. Any hedging activities we engage in may not effectively manage our interest rate exposure or have the desired impact on our financial conditions or results of operations. 18 From time to time in the future, we may take positions in derivative instruments including freight forward agreements, or FFAs. FFAs and other derivative instruments may be used to hedge a vessel owner’s exposure to the charter market by providing for the sale of a contracted charter rate along a specified route and period of time. Upon settlement, if the contracted charter rate is less than the average of the rates, as reported by an identified index, for the specified route and time period, the seller of the FFAs is required to pay the buyer an amount equal to the difference between the contracted rate and the settlement rate, multiplied by the number of days in the specified period. Conversely, if the contracted rate is greater than the settlement rate, the buyer is required to pay the seller the settlement sum. If we take positions in FFAs or other derivative instruments and do not correctly anticipate charter rate movements over the specified route and time period, we could suffer losses in the settling or termination of the FFA. This could adversely affect our results of operation and cash flow. As of the date of this annual report, we had no FFAs outstanding. Because we generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but will incur a portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars, but we expect that portions of our future expenses will be incurred in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. This difference could lead to fluctuations in our net income due to changes in the value of the dollar relative to the other currencies, in particular the Euro. Expenses incurred in foreign currencies against which the dollar falls in value can increase, decreasing net income. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, the fluctuation in the value of the dollar against foreign currencies did not have a material impact on us. We may have to pay tax on United States source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the laws of the countries of our and our subsidiaries incorporation and/or vessels’ registration, we are not subject to tax on international shipping income; however, we are subject to registration and tonnage taxes, which have been included in “Vessel operating expenses” in our consolidated statement of operations. Pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code of the United States, or the Code, U.S. source income from the international operations of ships is generally exempt from U.S. tax if the company operating the ships meets both of the following requirements, (1) more than 50% of the value of our stock is owned, directly or indirectly, by “qualified shareholders,” which includes persons (i) who are “residents” of our country of organization or of another foreign country that grants an “equivalent exemption” to corporations organized in the United States, and (ii) who comply with certain documentation requirements, which we refer to as the “Qualified Shareholder Ownership Test,” or (2) our stock is primarily and regularly traded on one or more established securities markets in our country of organization, in another country that grants an “equivalent exemption” to United States corporations, or in the United States, which we refer to as the “Publicly-Traded Test;” and we are not considered “closely held,” which we refer to as the “Closely-Held Test;” To complete the exemption process, our shipowning subsidiaries must file a U.S. tax return, state the basis of their exemption and obtain and retain documentation attesting to the basis of their exemptions. Our subsidiaries will complete the filing process for 2012 on or prior to the applicable tax filing deadline. All of our ship-operating subsidiaries currently satisfy the Publicly-Traded Test based on the trading volume and the widely-held ownership of our common stock, but no assurance can be given that this will remain so in the future, since continued compliance with this rule is subject to factors outside our control. Based on our U.S. source Shipping Income for 2010, 2011 and 2012, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax of approximately $34, $93 and $25, respectively, in the absence of an exemption under Section 883. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. 19 Based on our currently anticipated operations, we do not believe that we will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our time chartering activities does not constitute “passive income,” and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our proposed method of operation, and a federal court decision has characterized income received from vessel time charters as rental rather than services income for U.S. tax purposes. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders will face adverse U.S. tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders), such shareholders would be liable to pay United States federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common stock, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder’s holding period of our common stock. Risk Factors Relating to the Drybulk Shipping Industry The international drybulk shipping industry is cyclical and volatile and charter rates have decreased significantly and may further decrease in the future, which may adversely affect our earnings, vessel values and results of operations. The drybulk shipping industry is cyclical with volatility in charter hire rates and profitability. The degree of charter hire rate volatility among different types of drybulk vessels has varied widely. Since the middle of the third quarter of 2008, charter hire rates for drybulk vessels have decreased substantially, they may remain volatile for the foreseeable future and could continue to decline further. Additionally, charter rates have been particularly volatile during 2012 and have substantially decreased. As a result, our charter rates could further decline significantly, resulting in a loss and a reduction in earnings. We anticipate that the future demand for our drybulk vessels will be dependent upon existing conditions in the world’s economies, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the number of drybulk vessels being ordered and constructed, particularly if there is an oversupply of vessels, changes in the capacity of the global drybulk fleet and the sources and supply of drybulk cargo to be transported by sea. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a further material adverse effect on drybulk shipping in general and on our business and operating results in particular. Our ability to re-charter our drybulk vessels upon the expiration or termination of their current time charters, the charter rates payable under any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, the current state of the drybulk shipping market. If the drybulk shipping market is in a period of depression when our vessels’ charters expire, it is likely that we may be forced to re-charter them at reduced rates, including rates whereby we incur a loss, which may reduce our earnings or make our earnings volatile. In addition, because the market value of our vessels may fluctuate significantly, we may incur losses when we sell vessels, which may adversely affect our earnings. If we sell vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our financial statements, the sale may be at less than the vessel’s carrying amount on our financial statements, resulting in a loss and a reduction in earnings. The drybulk carrier charter market remains significantly below its high in the middle of 2008 and the average rates achieved in the four prior years, which has and may continue to adversely affect our revenues, earnings and profitability and our ability to comply with our loan covenants and repay our indebtedness. The drybulk shipping industry is cyclical with attendant volatility in charter hire rates and profitability. The degree of charter hire rate volatility among different types of dry bulk vessels has varied widely; however, the continued downturn in the drybulk charter market has severely affected the entire dry bulk shipping industry and charter hire rates for drybulk vessels have declined significantly from historically high levels. The Baltic Dry Index (the “BDI”), which is published daily by the Baltic Exchange Limited, a London-based membership organization that provides daily shipping market information to the global investing community, is a daily average of charter rates in selected shipping routes measured on a time charter and voyage basis covering Handysize, Supramax, Panamax and Capesize drybulk carriers. The BDI has long been viewed as the main benchmark to monitor the movements of the dry bulk vessel charter market and the performance of the entire drybulk shipping market. The BDI declined 94% in 2008 from a peak of 11,793 in May 2008 to a low of 663 in December 2008 and remained volatile during 2009, ranging from a low of 772 in January 2009 to a high of 4,661 in November 2009. The BDI continued its volatility in 2010, 2011 and 2012, reaching a high of 4,209 in May 2010, and a low of 1,700 in July 2010, in 2011, ranging from a low of approximately 1,043 in February 2011 and a high of approximately 2,173 in October 2011 and in 2012, reaching a high of approximately 1,738 in January 2012 and a low of approximately 647 in February 2012. 20 As of April 4, 2013, the BDI had risen to 866. The decline and volatility in charter rates has been due to various factors, including the lack of trade financing for purchases of commodities carried by sea, which had resulted in a significant decline in cargo shipments. The decline and volatility in charter rates in the drybulk market also affects the value of our drybulk vessels, which follows the trends of drybulk charter rates, and earnings on our charters, and similarly, affects our cash flows, our ability to repay our indebtedness and compliance with the covenants contained in our loan agreements. Economic recession and disruptions in world financial markets and the resulting governmental action in the United States and in other parts of the world could have a further material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We face risks resulting from changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates and instability in the banking, energy, commodities and securities markets around the world, among other factors. Major market disruptions, the adverse changes in market conditions and the regulatory climate in the United States and worldwide may adversely affect our business, impair our ability to borrow amounts under our existing credit facility or any credit facilities we enter into. In addition, the economic environment in Greece, which is where our operations are based, may have adverse impacts on us. We cannot predict how long the current market conditions will last. However, these economic and governmental factors, together with the concurrent decline in charter rates, could have a significant effect on our results of operations and could affect the price of our common stock. An economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could exacerbate the effect of recent slowdowns in the economies of the European Union and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We anticipate a significant number of the port calls made by our vessels will continue to involve the loading or discharging of drybulk commodities in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, any negative changes in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, particularly in China, may exacerbate the effect of recent slowdowns in the economies of the European Union and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. Before the global economic financial crisis that began in 2008, China had one of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product (“GDP”) which had a significant impact on shipping demand. The growth rate of China’s GDP decreased to approximately 7.8% for the year ended December 31, 2012, as compared to 9.3% and 10.4% for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and continues to remain below pre-2008 levels. It is possible that China and other countries in the Asia Pacific region will continue to experience slowed or even negative economic growth in the near future. Moreover, the current economic slowdown in the economies of the European Union and other Asian countries may further adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, will likely be materially and adversely affected by a further economic downturn in any of these countries. Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the government to regulate its economy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in such respects as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation and balance of payments position. Since 1978, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a “market economy” and enterprise reform. Although limited price reforms were undertaken, with the result that prices for certain commodities are principally determined by market forces, many of the reforms are experimental and may be subject to change or abolition. We cannot assure you that the Chinese government will continue to pursue a policy of economic reform. The level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws, regulations or export and import restrictions, all of which could, adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks involved with operating ocean-going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which may reduce our revenues. The operation of an ocean-going vessel has inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: • crew strikes and/or boycotts; • marine disaster; 21 • piracy; • environmental accidents; • cargo and property losses or damage; and • business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions. The involvement of any of our vessels in an environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel operator. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues. On October 11, 2012, we announced that all 21 crew members of the M/V Free Goddess are reported safe and well after the vessel’s release by her hijackers. The M/V Free Goddess had been hijacked by Somali pirates on February 7, 2012 while transiting the Indian Ocean eastbound. The vessel was on a time charter trip at the time she was hijacked. Under the charterparty agreement, the BIMCO Piracy clause was applied, which provided among other things, for the charterers to have the vessel covered with kidnap and ransom insurance and loss of hire insurance. The vessel was also covered by the war risk underwriters, who confirmed cover. We commenced arbitration proceedings with the charterer due to the charterer not fulfilling its obligations under the charterparty agreement. The proceedings were concluded and the award was in our favor. Thereafter, we reached a settlement with the charterer pursuant to which the charterer agreed to pay $800. Currently, the vessel is being surveyed pending commencement of temporary repairs. An oversupply of drybulk vessel capacity may lead to reductions in charter rates and profitability. As of December 31, 2012, newbuilding orders had been placed for an aggregate of approximately 18% of the total DWT of the then-existing global drybulk fleet, with deliveries expected mainly during the succeeding 36 months, although available data with regard to cancellations of existing newbuilding orders or delays of new build deliveries are not always accurate. As of December 31, 2011, newbuilding orders had been placed for an aggregate of approximately 32% of the total DWT of the then-existing global drybulk fleet, with deliveries expected mainly during the succeeding 36 months, although available data with regard to cancellations of existing new build orders or delays of new build deliveries are not always accurate. An over-supply of drybulk carrier capacity may result in a reduction of charter hire rates. Because the factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable, the nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. Factors that influence demand for vessel capacity include: • supply and demand for energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products; • changes in the exploration or production of energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products; • the location of regional and global exploration, production and manufacturing facilities; • the location of consuming regions for energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products; • the globalization of production and manufacturing; global and regional economic and political conditions, including armed conflicts, terrorist activities, embargoes and strikes; • developments in international trade; • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including the distance cargo is transported by sea; • environmental and other regulatory developments; • currency exchange rates; and weather. The factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: • the number of newbuilding deliveries; 22 • port and canal congestion; • the scrapping rate of older vessels; • vessel casualties; and • the number of vessels that are out of service. We anticipate that the future demand for our drybulk carriers will be dependent upon continued economic growth in the world’s economies, including China and India, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the global drybulk carrier fleet and the sources and supply of drybulk cargoes to be transported by sea. The capacity of the global drybulk carrier fleet seems likely to increase and economic growth may not continue. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin and destination. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of the contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us. Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, there has been a variety of limitations intended to enhance vessel security. Regulations by the U.S. Coast Guard and rules pursuant to the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea have imposed increased compliance costs on vessel owners and charterers. These costs include certification costs imposed by relevant agencies and bonding costs under U.S. Customs and Border Protection, as well as potential delays in transit due to increased security procedures regulating the entry into harbors or the discharge of cargo. For a further description of the various requirements, please see “