ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the following factors, as well as the other information set forth in this Form 10-K and Quintana’s other SEC filings. Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the events described in this section could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash available for dividends or the trading price of our common stock and cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business The merger agreement contains a number of conditions to closing: if those conditions are not satisfied or waived, the merger may not occur, which may cause our stock price to decline. We entered into a merger agreement on January 29, 2008 with Excel Maritime Carriers, Ltd., pursuant to which Excel agreed to purchase all our outstanding shares for a combination of cash and stock. The merger agreement contains a number of conditions to closing, including (a) the affirmative vote of a majority of our shareholders, (b) Excel’s receipt of financing, (c) the lack of a material adverse change in Excel’s or our business, and (d) other customary conditions. If any one of these conditions is not satisfied or waived, the merger may not close, and our share price may decline as a result. Our substantial debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. We currently have substantial indebtedness and will have even more significant indebtedness upon the delivery of the eight additional Capesize vessels we have agreed to buy, 7 of which are to be purchased through joint venture arrangements with related parties. As of December 31, 2007, we had $689.8 million of total debt outstanding, of which $29.8 related to the credit facilities of consolidated joint ventures, as compared to total debt of $612.0 million as of December 31, 2006. We may incur more indebtedness in connection with future acquisitions. Our high level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • we may need to use a substantial portion of our cash from operations to make principal and interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and dividends to our shareholders; • our debt level could make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; • our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions; and • our rate of growth may slow if we choose not to incur significant additional debt to acquire vessels. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing dividends, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. As we expand our business, we may need to improve our operating and financial systems and expand our commercial and technical management staff, and will need to recruit suitable employees and crew for our vessels. Since the Company’s incorporation in 2005, our size of our fleet has experienced rapid growth. If we continue to expand our fleet, we will need to recruit suitable additional administrative and management personnel. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to hire suitable employees as we expand our fleet. If we encounter business or financial difficulties, we may not be able to adequately staff our vessels. If we are unable to grow our financial and operating systems or to recruit suitable employees as we expand our fleet, our financial performance may be adversely affected and, among other things, the amount of cash available for dividends to our shareholders may be reduced. 13 Table of Contents Restrictive covenants in our revolving credit facility impose financial and other restrictions on us, including our ability to pay dividends. Our revolving credit facility imposes operating and financial restrictions on us and requires us to comply with certain financial covenants. These restrictions and covenants limit our ability to, among other things: • pay dividends if an event of default has occurred and is continuing under our proposed new revolving credit facility or if the payment of the dividend would result in an event of default; • incur additional indebtedness, including through the issuance of guarantees; • change the flag, class or management of our vessels; • create liens on our assets; • sell our vessels without replacing such vessels or prepaying a portion of our loan; • merge or consolidate with, or transfer all or substantially all our assets to, another person; or • change our business. Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lenders or terminate the facility in order to engage in some corporate actions, including the proposed merger. Our lenders’ interests may be different from ours and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders’ consent when needed. If we do not comply with the restrictions and covenants in our revolving credit facility, we will not be able to pay dividends to you, finance our future operations, make acquisitions or pursue business opportunities. We derive a substantial portion of the revenues generated by our fleet from one charterer, and the loss of that charterer or any time charter or any vessel could result in a significant loss of revenues and cash flow. Bunge and its affiliates currently charter the 17 vessels we bought from Metrobulk in 2006. As a result, Bunge’s payments to us will be our sole source of operating cash flow from these vessels over the term of the governing master time charter expiring December 31, 2010. Bunge and its affiliates, therefore, account for a substantial majority of our revenues. As a result, Bunge will have a substantial amount of leverage in any discussions or disputes it may have with us, which it may choose to exercise to our disadvantage. In addition, at any given time in the future, if Bunge were to experience financial difficulties, we cannot assure you that Bunge would be able to make charter payments to us or make them at the levels provided for in our master time charter with Bunge. If Bunge is unable to make charter payments to us, or makes them at a significantly lower level than we expect, our results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. We could lose Bunge or another party as a charterer or the benefits of a time charter if: • the charterer fails to make charter payments to us; • the vessel is off-hire for more than 20 days in any year for reasons other than drydocking required to maintain a vessel’s status with its classification society; or • we are unable to reach an agreement in advance with Bunge on the level of charter hire to be paid to us within a specified daily hire rate range in any year. If we lose a time charter, we may be unable to re-deploy the related vessel on terms as favorable to us as in the original time charter. In the worst case, we may not receive any revenues from that vessel, but we may be required to pay expenses necessary to maintain the vessel in proper operating condition. The loss of any of our charterers, time charters or vessels, or a decline in payments under our charters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. We depend on Bunge, which is an agribusiness, for all of our revenues from a substantial portion of our fleet and are therefore exposed to risks in the agribusiness market. Bunge and its affiliates charter seventeen of our vessels. Accordingly, our business is indirectly exposed to economic and other risks inherent in the agribusiness market. Changes in the economic, political, legal and other conditions in agribusiness could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Based on Bunge’s filings with the SEC, these risks include the following, among others: • The availability and demand for the agricultural commodities and agricultural commodity products that Bunge uses and sells in its business can be affected by weather, disease and other factors beyond its control; 14 Table of Contents • Bunge is vulnerable to cyclicality in the oilseed processing industry; • Bunge is vulnerable to increases in raw material prices; and • Bunge is subject to economic and political instability and other risks of doing business globally and in emerging markets. Deterioration in Bunge’s business as a result of these or other factors could have a material adverse impact on Bunge’s ability to make timely charter hire payments to us and to renew its time charters with us. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. If we do not adequately manage the construction of the newbuilding vessels, the vessels may not be delivered on time or in compliance with their specifications. We have recently entered into contracts to purchase eight newbuilding vessels through wholly owned subsidiaries or through joint ventures in which we participate. We are obliged to supervise the construction of these vessels. If we are denied supervisory access to the construction of these vessels by the relevant shipyard or otherwise fail to adequately manage the shipbuilding process, the delivery of the vessels may be delayed or the vessels may not comply with their specifications, which could compromise their performance. Both delays in delivery and failure to meet specifications could result in lower revenues from the operations of the vessels, which could reduce our earnings. If our joint venture partners do not honor their commitments under the joint venture agreements, the joint ventures may not take delivery of the newbuilding vessels. We rely on our joint venture partners to honor their financial commitments under the joint venture agreements, including the payment of their portions of installments due under the shipbuilding contracts or memoranda of agreement. If our partners do not make these payments, we may be in default under these contracts. Delays in deliveries of or failure to deliver newbuildings under construction could materially and adversely harm our operating results and could lead to the termination of related time charter agreements. We have recently entered into contracts to purchase eight newbuilding vessels through wholly owned subsidiaries or joint ventures in which we participate. Four of these vessels are under construction at Korea Shipyard Co., Ltd., a greenfield shipyard for which there is no historical track record. The relevant joint ventures have not yet received refund guarantees with respect to these vessels, which may imply that the shipyard will not be able to timely deliver the vessels. The delivery of any one or more of these vessels could be delayed or may not occur, which would delay our receipt of revenues under the time charters for these vessels or otherwise deprive us of the use of the vessel, and thereby adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, under some time charters, we may be required to deliver a vessel to the charterer even if the relevant newbuilding has not been delivered to us. If the delivery of the newbuildings is delayed or does not occur, we may be required to enter into a bareboat charter at a rate in excess of the charterhire payable to us. If we are unable to deliver the newbuilding or a vessel that we have chartered at our cost, the customer may terminate the time charter which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The delivery of the newbuildings could be delayed or may not occur because of: • work stoppages or other labor disturbances or other event that disrupts the operations of the shipbuilder; • quality or engineering problems; • changes in governmental regulations or maritime self-regulatory organization standards; • lack of raw materials and finished components; • failure of the builder to finalize arrangements with sub-contractors; • faiure to provide adequate refund guarantees; • bankruptcy or other financial crisis of the shipbuilder; • a backlog of orders at the shipbuilder; • hostilities, political or economic disturbances in the country where the vessels are being built; • weather interference or catastrophic event, such as a major earthquake or fire; • our requests for changes to the original vessel specifications; • shortages of or delays in the receipt of necessary construction materials, such as steel; • our inability to obtain requisite permits or approvals; or 15 Table of Contents • a dispute with the shipbuilder. In addition, the shipbuilding contracts for the new vessels contain a “force majeure” provision whereby the occurrence of certain events could delay delivery or possibly terminate the contract. If delivery of a vessel is materially delayed or if a shipbuilding contract is terminated, it could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Some of our directors and executive officers may have conflicts of interest, and the resolution of these conflicts of interest may not be in our or our shareholders’ best interest. Some of our directors and executive officers may have conflicts of interests relating to the joint ventures or to the proposed merger. We have entered into seven joint ventures to purchase vessels. One of the ventures, named Christine Shipco LLC, is a joint venture among the Company, Robertson Maritime Investors LLC, or RMI, an affiliate of Corbin J. Robertson, Jr. and AMCIC Cape Holdings LLC, or AMCIC, an affiliate of Hans J. Mende, to purchase the Christine, a newbuilding Capesize drybulk carrier. In addition, we have entered into six additional joint ventures with AMCIC to purchase six newbuilding Capesize vessels. It is currently anticipated that each of these joint ventures will enter into a management agreement with us for the provision of construction supervision prior to delivery of the relevant vessel and technical management of the relevant vessel subsequent to delivery. Mr. Robertson is the chairman of our Board, the chairman of the CNG Committee of our Board and also serves as a director on the board of directors of Christine Shipco LLC. Members of Mr. Robertson’s family, including Corbin J. Robertson, III, a member of our Board, will also participate in the Christine Shipco LLC joint venture through Mr. Robertson. Mr. Mende is a member of our Board and serves on the board of directors of Christine Shipco LLC, Hope Shipco LLC, Lillie Shipco LLC, Fritz Shipco LLC, Iron Lena Shipco LLC, Gayle Frances Shipco LLC, and Benthe Shipco LLC. Stamatis Molaris, our chief executive officer, president and a member of our Board, will also serve, at the request of the Board of Directors of the Company, as a director of the seven joint ventures. While our Board has put in place a conflicts committee composed of independent directors to resolve actual and potential conflicts of interest, the presence of Mr. Robertson, Mr. Mende and Mr. Molaris on the board of directors of Christine Shipco LLC and the presence of Mr. Mende and Mr. Molaris on the board of directors of each of the other six joint ventures may create conflicts of interest because Mr. Robertson, Mr. Mende and Mr. Molaris have responsibilities to these joint ventures. Their duties as directors of the joint ventures may conflict with their duties as our directors regarding business dealings between the joint ventures and us. In addition, Mr. Robertson, Mr. Robertson III, and Mr. Mende each have a direct or indirect economic interest in Christine Shipco LLC, and Mr. Mende has direct or indirect economic interests in each of the other six joint ventures. Their economic interest in the joint ventures may conflict with their duties as our directors regarding business dealings between the joint ventures and us. As a result of these joint venture transactions, conflicts of interest may arise between the joint ventures and us. These conflicts may include, among others, the following situations: • each joint venture will be engaged in the business of chartering or rechartering its drybulk carrier and may compete with us for customers; • Mr. Molaris, our chief executive officer, president, and a member of our Board, will also serve as a director of each of the seven joint ventures, which may result in his spending less time than is appropriate or necessary in order to manage our business successfully; and • disputes may arise under the joint venture agreements and the related management agreement and resolutions of such disputes by our chief executive officer and members of our Board could be influenced by such individuals’ investment in or their capacity as members or directors of the joint ventures. In addition, some executive officers and directors of Quintana have interests in the merger that are different from the interests of our shareholders. For example, Quintana has entered into severance agreements with certain of its executive officers that provide for severance payments under certain circumstances as a result of the merger. These and certain other additional interests of Quintana’s directors and executive officers may create potential conflicts of interest and cause some of these persons to view the proposed merger differently than a shareholder may view it. 16 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that our board of directors will declare dividends. In 2007, our board of directors set its current dividend policy, which is to establish a minimum annualized dividend each year. The declaration and payment of dividends, if any, will always be subject to the discretion of our board of directors and the requirements of Marshall Islands law. The timing and amount of any dividends declared, if any, will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition and cash requirements and availability, our ability to obtain debt and equity financing on acceptable terms as contemplated by our growth strategy, provisions of Marshall Islands law governing the payment of dividends, restrictive covenants in our existing and future debt instruments, and current and expected market conditions. The international dry bulk shipping industry is highly volatile, and we cannot predict with certainty the amount of cash, if any, that will be available for distribution as dividends in any period. Also, there may be a high degree of variability from period to period in the amount of cash, if any, that is available for the payment of dividends. We may incur expenses or liabilities or be subject to other circumstances in the future that reduce or eliminate the amount of cash that we have available for distribution as dividends, if any, including as a result of the risks described in this section of the prospectus. Our growth strategy contemplates that we will finance the acquisition of additional vessels through a combination of our operating cash flow and debt and equity financing. If financing is not available to us on acceptable terms, our board of directors may determine to finance or refinance acquisitions with a greater percentage of cash from operations to the extent available, which would reduce or even eliminate the amount of cash available for the payment of dividends. We may also enter into new financing or other agreements that will restrict our ability to pay dividends. Under the terms of our revolving credit facility, we will not be permitted to pay dividends if an event of default has occurred and is continuing or would occur as a result of the payment of such dividend. Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends other than from surplus or while a company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent by the payment of such a dividend. We may not have sufficient surplus in the future to pay dividends. We can give no assurance that dividends will be paid in the future. Future sales of our common stock may result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock, even if our business is doing well. The market price of our common stock could decline due to the issuance and subsequent sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market pursuant to an equity offering or the perception that such sales could occur following the exercise of the outstanding warrants. This could make it more difficult to raise funds through future offerings of common stock or securities convertible into common stock. An affiliate of Mr. Robertson, the Chairman of the Board of the Company, has the right in certain circumstances to require us to register its shares of common stock in connection with a public offering and sale. In addition, in connection with other registered offerings by us, affiliates of Mr. Robertson and certain other shareholders will have the ability to exercise certain piggyback registration rights with respect to their shares. We had 56,515,218 shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2007, not including 1,407,650 shares of unvested restricted stock that had been issued but are subject to forfeiture and 56,822,813 shares outstanding as of February 25, 2008, not including 1,412,453 shares of unvested restricted stock that had been issued at that date. Assuming exercise of the remaining 815,520 warrants to purchase common stock remaining outstanding as of February 25, 2008 we would have a total of 59,050,786 shares of common stock outstanding. Our earnings may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our vessels on medium- or long-term time charters or take advantage of favorable opportunities in the spot market. We expect to employ the majority of our vessels primarily on medium- and long-term time charters. Although medium- and long-term charters provide relatively steady streams of revenue, our vessels committed to such charters may not be available for immediate chartering for spot charters during periods of increasing charter hire rates when spot voyages might be more profitable. If we cannot recharter these vessels on new medium- or long-term charters following the expiration of previous charters, or employ them in the spot market profitably, our results of operations and operating cash flow may suffer. We cannot assure you that future charter hire rates will enable us to operate our vessels profitably. We may have difficulty properly managing our planned growth through acquisitions of additional vessels. We intend to grow our business through selective acquisitions of additional vessels. Our future growth will primarily depend on: • locating and acquiring suitable vessels or shipbuilding contracts; • identifying and consummating vessel acquisitions or joint ventures relating to vessel acquisitions; • enlarging our customer base; 17 Table of Contents • managing our expansion; and • obtaining required financing on acceptable terms. During periods in which charter hire rates are high, vessel values generally are high as well, and it may be difficult to consummate vessel acquisitions at favorable prices. In addition, growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks, such as obtaining additional qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and integrating newly acquired assets into existing infrastructure. We cannot give any assurance that we will be successful in executing our growth plans or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with our future growth efforts. We cannot assure you that we will be able to borrow further amounts under our revolving credit facility, which we will need to fund the acquisition of additional vessels. Our ability to borrow further amounts under our revolving credit facility will be subject to satisfaction of certain customary conditions precedent and compliance with terms and conditions included in the loan documents. Prior to each borrowing, we will be required, among other things, to provide the lenders with acceptable valuations of the vessels in our fleet confirming that they are sufficient to satisfy minimum security requirements. To the extent that we are not able to satisfy these requirements, including as a result of a decline in the value of our vessels, we may not be able to borrow further amounts under our revolving credit facility. We may be in default under existing contracts to acquire vessels if we do not obtain additional financing. In order to complete the acquisition of vessels we have agreed to buy, including those to be purchased by the joint ventures, we must obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so or will be able to do so in time to complete the acquisitions. If we do not obtain this financing, we may be in default under the contracts to acquire those vessels, and we may forfeit our deposit and our right to acquire those vessels. Servicing future indebtedness will limit funds available for other purposes, such as the payment of dividends. We intend to finance our fleet expansion program in part with secured indebtedness. We may incur other indebtedness in the future. While we may seek to refinance amounts drawn or incurred, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If we are not able to refinance these amounts on terms acceptable to us or at all, we will have to dedicate cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest of this indebtedness. If we are not able to satisfy these obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, any defaults by them, and the market value of our fleet, among other things, may materially affect our ability to obtain alternative financing. In addition, debt service payments under any future debt agreements or alternative financing may limit funds otherwise available for working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes, such as the payment of dividends. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations, or if we otherwise default under any future debt agreements, our lenders could declare the debt, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable and foreclose on our fleet, which could result in the acceleration of other indebtedness that we may have at such time and the commencement of similar foreclosure proceedings by other lenders. Unless we set aside reserves for vessel replacement, at the end of a vessel’s useful life our revenue will decline. Unless we maintain cash reserves for vessel replacement, we may be unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives. Our cash flows and income are dependent on the revenues earned by the chartering of our vessels to customers. If we are unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives, our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay dividends will be adversely affected. Any reserves set aside for vessel replacement would not be available for other cash needs or dividends. While we have not set aside cash reserves to date, pursuant to our dividend policy, we expect to pay less than all of our available cash from operations so as to retain funds for capital expenditures, working capital and debt service. In periods where we make acquisitions, our board of directors may limit the amount or percentage of our cash from operations available to pay dividends. See “Dividend Policy.” Purchasing and operating secondhand vessels may result in increased operating costs and reduced fleet utilization. In the past, we have acquired high-quality secondhand vessels. While we have the right to inspect previously owned vessels prior to purchase, such an inspection does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition that we would have if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Secondhand vessels may have conditions or defects that we were not aware of when we bought the vessel and that may require us to incur costly repairs to the vessels. If this were to occur, such hidden defects or problems may be expensive to repair when detected, and if not detected may result in accidents or other incidents for which we may become liable to third parties. Repairs may require us to put a vessel into drydock, which would reduce our fleet utilization and increase our costs. We do not expect to receive the benefit of warranties on secondhand vessels. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age 18 Table of Contents of the vessel. Older vessels are typically less fuel-efficient than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Governmental regulations, safety and other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to some of our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which these vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. When our time charters end, we may not be able to replace them promptly or with profitable ones. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain charters at comparable rates or with comparable charterers, if at all, when the charters on the vessels in our fleet expire. The charterers under these charters have no obligation to renew or extend the charters. We will generally attempt to recharter our vessels at favorable rates with reputable charterers as the charters expire, unless management determines at that time to employ the vessel in the spot market. We cannot assure you that we will succeed. Failure to obtain replacement charters will reduce or eliminate our revenue, our ability to expand our fleet and our ability to pay dividends to shareholders. If dry bulk vessel charter hire rates are lower than those under our current charters, we may have to enter into charters with lower charter hire rates. Also, it is possible that we may not obtain any charters. In addition, we may have to reposition our vessels without cargo or compensation to deliver them to future charterers or to move vessels to areas where we believe that future employment may be more likely or advantageous. Repositioning our vessels would increase our vessel operating costs. Charterers may default on time charters that provide for above-market rates. If we enter into time charters with charterers when charter rates are high and charter rates subsequently fall significantly, charterers may default under those charters. We intend to enter into time charters only with reputable counterparties, but we cannot assure you that such counterparties will not default on the charters. If a charterer defaults on an above-market time charter, we will seek the remedies available to us, which may include arrest of the vessel and arbitration or litigation to enforce the contract. After a charterer defaults on a time charter, we will likely have to enter into charters at lower rates. It is also possible that we would be unable to secure a charter at all. If we recharter the vessel at lower rates, our revenues will be reduced. Contracts of affreightment may result in losses. Our subsidiary Quintana Logistics LLC may seek to enter into contracts of affreightment. Contracts of affreightment may subject us to risks we do not usually bear in our time-charter business. Because we will usually be paid a per-ton rate under a contract of affreightment but will charter in ships from third parties on a daily-rate basis, we will be exposed to volatility in freight rates between our execution of the contract of affreightment and chartering in of vessels. In addition, we will generally bear risks associated with the length of the voyages, including canal-passage delays, inclement weather, and other factors. If these delays occur, we will still be bound to pay charterhire on the ships carrying the cargo, but we will not receive additional amounts under the contract of affreightment. Consequently, delays may reduce our profits under the contract or result in significant losses. The international dry bulk shipping industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources. We will employ our vessels in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of dry bulk cargo by sea is intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its operators to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter the dry bulk shipping industry and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions and may be able to offer lower charter hire rates than we are able to offer. We may be unable to retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may negatively impact the effectiveness of our management and results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team, which was formed beginning in January 2005. Our success will depend upon our ability to retain key members of our management team and to hire new management as may be necessary. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining replacement personnel could have a similar effect. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance on any of our officers. 19 Table of Contents Our vessels may suffer damage and we may face unexpected costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired. The costs of repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. The loss of earnings while our vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings and reduce the amount of cash that we have available for dividends. We may not have insurance that is sufficient to cover all or any of these costs or losses and may have to pay costs not covered by our insurance. The aging of our fleet may result in increased operating costs in the future, which could adversely affect our earnings. In general, the cost of maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increases with the age of the vessel. Our operating fleet has a dwt-weighted-average age of approximately 4.7 years as of December 31, 2007. As our fleet ages, we will incur increased costs. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates also increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. The shipping industry has inherent operational risks that may not be adequately covered by our insurance. We procure insurance for our fleet against risks commonly insured against by vessel owners and operators. Our current insurance for the vessels of which we have taken delivery includes hull and machinery insurance, war risks insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes environmental damage and pollution insurance. We can give no assurance that we are adequately insured against all risks or that our insurers will pay a particular claim. Even if our insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to timely obtain a replacement vessel in the event of a loss. Furthermore, we may not be able to maintain or obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet. We may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive indemnity insurance coverage for tort liability. Our insurance policies also contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions which increase our costs in the event of a claim or decrease any recovery in the event of a loss. If we acquire additional dry bulk carriers and those vessels are not delivered on time or are delivered with significant defects, our earnings and financial condition could suffer. We expect to acquire additional vessels in the future. A delay in the delivery of any of these vessels to us or the failure of the contract counterparty to deliver a vessel at all could cause us to breach our obligations under a related time charter and could adversely affect our earnings, our financial condition and the amount of dividends, if any, that we pay in the future. The delivery of these vessels could be delayed or certain events may arise which could result in us not taking delivery of a vessel, such as a total loss of a vessel, a constructive loss of a vessel, or substantial damage to a vessel prior to delivery. In addition, the delivery of any of these vessels with substantial defects could have similar consequences. We depend upon a limited number of customers for a large part of our revenues and the loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect our financial performance. We expect to derive a significant part of our revenue from a limited number of customers. If one or more of these customers terminates its charter or chooses not to recharter our vessel or is unable to perform under its charter with us and we are not able to find a replacement charter, or if a customer exercises certain rights to terminate the charter, we could suffer a loss of revenues that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution as dividends to our shareholders. We could lose a customer or the benefits of a time charter for many different reasons, including if: • the customer fails to make charter payments because of its financial inability, disagreements with us or otherwise; or • the customer terminates the charter because we fail to deliver the vessel within a fixed period of time, the vessel is lost or damaged beyond repair, there are serious deficiencies in the vessel or prolonged periods of off-hire, or we default under the charter. If we lose a key customer, we may be unable to obtain charters on comparable terms or may have increased exposure to the volatile spot market, which is highly competitive and subject to significant price fluctuations. The loss of any of our customers, time charters or vessels, or a decline in payments under our charters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. 20 Table of Contents We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations and to make dividend payments. We are a holding company and our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make dividend payments depends on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of a subsidiary to make these distributions could be affected by a claim or other action by a third party, including a creditor, or by Marshall Islands law, which regulates the payment of dividends by companies. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, our board of directors may exercise its discretion not to declare or pay dividends. We do not intend to seek to obtain funds from other sources to pay dividends. We may not be able to draw down the full amount under our revolving credit facility if the market value of our vessels declines. The fair market value of dry bulk vessels has generally experienced high volatility and market prices for secondhand dry bulk carriers are currently above historical averages. You should expect the market value of our vessels to fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry and prevailing charter hire rates, competition from other shipping companies and other modes of transportation, types, sizes and age of vessels, applicable governmental regulations and the cost of newbuildings. The terms of our revolving credit facility include the requirement that, in connection with vessel acquisitions, amounts borrowed not exceed a specified percentage of the value of the vessels securing our obligations under the facility. If the value of our vessels declines because of the factors described in the previous paragraph or for any other reason, we might not be able to satisfy this requirement and, accordingly, may not be able to draw down funds to fund potential vessel acquisitions. We may breach some of the covenants under our revolving credit facility if the market price of our vessels, which are currently near historically high levels, declines. Our revolving credit facility contains a covenant requiring that the aggregate market value of the vessels in our fleet at all times exceeds a specified percentage of the aggregate principal amount of debt outstanding under the facility. If the market value of our vessels decreases, we may breach some of the covenants contained in our revolving credit facility. If we do breach such covenants and we are unable to remedy the relevant breach, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our fleet. In addition, if the book value of a vessel is impaired due to unfavorable market conditions or a vessel is sold at a price below its book value, we would incur a loss that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our substantial operations outside the United States expose us to political, governmental and economic instability, which could harm our operations. Because our operations are primarily conducted outside of the United States, they may be affected by economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we are engaged in business or where our vessels are registered. Future hostilities or political instability in regions where we operate or may operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. In addition, tariffs, trade embargoes and other economic sanctions by the United States or other countries against countries where our vessels trade may limit trading activities with those countries, which could also harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. We are subject to regulation and liability under environmental laws that could require significant expenditures and affect our cash flow and net income. Our business and the operations of our vessels are regulated under international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate, as well as in the country of their registration in order to protect against potential environmental impacts. As a result of highly publicized accidents in recent years, government regulation of vessels, particularly in the area of environmental requirements, can be expected to become more stringent in the future and could require us to incur significant capital expenditure on our vessels to keep them in compliance, or even to scrap or sell certain vessels altogether. For example, various jurisdictions are considering regulating the management of ballast waters to prevent the introduction of non-indigenous species that are considered invasive, and others are considering more stringent controls on air emissions from vessels. While we cannot in every instance predict the extent of the costs that will be required to comply with these requirements, environmental regulations should apply to all vessels registered in countries that have ratified the various conventions upon which such requirements are based, and should therefore apply to most of our competitors to the same extent as they apply to us. These requirements can also affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels, require a reduction in cargo capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of or more costly insurance coverage 21 Table of Contents for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations, natural resource damages, personal injury and property damage claims in the event that there is a release of petroleum or other hazardous materials from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our operations. Violations of, or liabilities under, environmental requirements can result in substantial penalties, fines and other sanctions, including in certain instances, seizure or detention of our vessels. Events of this nature would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. We are subject to international safety regulations and the failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to increased liability, may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention. A vessel must undergo Annual Surveys, Intermediate Surveys and Special Surveys. In lieu of a Special Survey, a vessel’s machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Every vessel is required to be drydocked every 30 to 36 months for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. If any of our vessels does not maintain its class or fails any Annual Survey, Intermediate Survey or Special Survey, the vessel will be unable to trade between ports and will be unemployable. Moreover, as a result, we could be in violation of certain covenants in our revolving credit facility, all of which would negatively impact our revenues and liquidity. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the International Maritime Organization’s International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or ISM Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners and ship managers to develop and maintain an extensive “Safety Management System” that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. We have obtained our own ISM Code certification to operate our vessels. Because we expect to generate all of our revenues in U.S. Dollars but may incur a portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could hurt our results of operations. We expect to generate all of our revenues in U.S. Dollars. We expect to incur a portion of our operating expenses in currencies other than U.S. Dollars. This difference could lead to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to the other currencies, in particular the Euro. Expenses, including extraordinary expenses, incurred in foreign currencies against which the U.S. Dollar falls in value will be higher in U.S. Dollar terms, resulting in a decrease in our operating income. We have in the past, and may in future, put limited hedges in place to guard against exchange-rate risk, but our operating results could suffer as a result of fluctuating exchange rates. Risks Related to the Industry The international dry bulk shipping sector is extremely cyclical and volatile; these factors may lead to reductions and volatility in our charter hire rates, vessel values and results of operations. The dry bulk shipping industry is extremely cyclical with attendant volatility in charter hire rates and industry profitability. The degree of charter hire rate volatility among different types of dry bulk carriers has varied widely, and charter hire rates for dry bulk carriers are currently above historical averages. When we enter into a charter when charter hire rates are low, our revenues and earnings will be adversely affected as we do not expect to be able to substantially lower our operating costs during periods of industry weaknesses. In addition, a decline in charter hire rates will likely cause the value of our vessels to decline. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully charter our vessels in the future or renew existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to meet our obligations or to pay dividends to our shareholders. Because the factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable, the nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. Factors that influence demand for vessel capacity include: 22 Table of Contents • demand for and production of dry bulk products; • global and regional economic conditions; • environmental and other regulatory developments; • the distance dry bulk is to be moved by sea; and • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. Factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: • the number of newbuilding deliveries; • the scrapping rate of older vessels; • vessel casualties; • the number of vessels that are out of service; • the price of steel; • changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful lives of vessels; and • port congestion. We anticipate that the future demand for our dry bulk carriers will be dependent upon, among other things, continued economic growth in the world’s economies, including China and India, and will be influenced by seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the global dry bulk carrier fleet and the sources and supply of dry bulk cargo to be transported by sea. We believe the capacity of the global dry bulk carrier fleet will increase. If the supply of dry bulk carrier capacity increases and the demand for dry bulk carrier capacity does not increase or increases less quickly, the charter hire rates paid for our vessels could materially decline. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. Charter hire rates in the dry bulk sector are above historical averages and future growth will depend on continued economic growth in the world economy that exceeds the capacity of the growing world fleet’s ability to match it. Charter hire rates for the dry bulk sector are above historical averages. We anticipate that future demand for our dry bulk carriers, and in turn our future charter hire rates, will be dependent upon continued economic growth in the world’s economy, particularly in China and India, and will be influenced by seasonal and regional changes in demand and changes in the capacity of the world’s fleet. We believe the capacity of the world’s fleet will increase and there can be no assurance that economic growth will continue. A decline in demand for commodities transported in dry bulk carriers or an increase in supply of dry bulk carriers could cause a decline in charter hire rates which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. Risks associated with operating oceangoing vessels could negatively affect our business and reputation, which could adversely affect our revenues and stock price. The operation of oceangoing vessels carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: • marine disaster; • environmental accidents; • cargo and property losses or damage; • business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions; and • piracy. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues. Although we have 29 vessels in our current operating fleet, loss or damage to any one or more of our vessels could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. In addition to any economic cost, the involvement of our vessels in an environmental disaster may harm our reputation. Our short operating history may increase these risks. The operation of dry bulk carriers has certain unique operational risks. With a dry bulk carrier, the cargo itself and its interaction with the ship may create operational risks. By their nature, dry bulk cargoes are often heavy, dense and easily shifted, and they may react badly to water exposure. In addition, dry bulk 23 Table of Contents carriers are often subjected to battering treatment during unloading operations with grabs, jackhammers (to pry encrusted cargoes out of the hold), and small bulldozers. This treatment may cause damage to the vessel. Vessels damaged due to treatment during unloading procedures may be more susceptible to breach to the sea. Hull breaches in dry bulk carriers may lead to the flooding of the vessels’ holds. If a dry bulk vessel suffers flooding in its forward holds, the bulk cargo may become so dense and waterlogged that its pressure may buckle the vessel’s bulkheads, leading to the loss of a vessel. If we are unable to adequately maintain our vessels, we may be unable to prevent these events. Any of these circumstances or events could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. In addition, the loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. Maritime claimants could arrest one or more of our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a claimant may seek to obtain security for its claim by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could cause us to default on a charter, interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of money to have the arrest or attachment lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could attempt to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in a loss of earnings. A government could requisition one or more of our vessels for title or for hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes its owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes its charterer at dictated charter hire rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspections and related procedures in countries of origin and destination. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery and the levying of customs, duties, fines and other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Furthermore, changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. A downturn in general economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations. Our business operations are affected by international and national and local economic conditions. A recession or downturn in the general economy, or in a region constituting a significant source of demand for our services could adversely affect our revenues. An economic slowdown in Asia could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We expect that a significant number of the port calls made by our vessels will involve the loading or discharging of raw materials in ports in Asia. As a result, a negative change in economic conditions in any Asian country, particularly China or India, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. In recent years, India and China have been some of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, which has had a significant impact on shipping demand. We cannot assure you that such growth will be sustained or that the Chinese and Indian economies will not experience negative growth in the future. Moreover, any slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union or certain Asian countries may adversely affect economic growth in China, India and elsewhere. Our business, financial position, results of operations, ability to pay dividends, as well as our future prospects, will likely be materially and adversely affected by an economic downturn in any of these countries. 24 Table of Contents Seasonal fluctuations in industry demand could adversely affect our operating results and the amount of available cash with which we can pay dividends. We will operate our vessels in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter hire rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results, which could affect the amount of dividends, if any, that we pay to our shareholders from quarter to quarter. The dry bulk carrier market is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and other raw materials in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. As a result, we expect revenues with respect to any of our vessels trading on the spot market to be weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, we expect those revenues to be stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. In addition, time charters that we enter into during historically weaker seasons may generate less revenue than those entered into during stronger seasonal periods. This seasonality could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. World events could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, the bombings in Spain on March 11, 2004 and the continuing response of the United States to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, continues to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets, which may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The continuing conflict in Iraq may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. In addition, political tensions or conflicts in the Asia Pacific Region, particularly involving China, may reduce the demand for our services. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain any additional financing or, if we are able to obtain additional financing, to do so on terms favorable to us. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. Tax Risks to Our Shareholders We may earn United States source income that is subject to tax, thereby reducing our earnings. Under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a ship owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as U.S. source shipping income and as such is subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder. We believe that we and each of our subsidiaries qualified for this statutory tax exemption for the year ended December 31, 2007 (the “2007 Year”) and we will take this position for U.S. federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are circumstances, including some that are beyond our control, which could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our U.S.-source shipping income. For example, 5% shareholders could acquire and own 50% or more of our outstanding common stock. This would preclude us from being eligible for the Section 883 exemption unless we can establish that among those 5% shareholders there are sufficient 5% shareholders that are qualified shareholders for purposes of Section 883 to preclude non-qualified 5% shareholders from owning 50% or more of such shares for more than half the number of days during the taxable year. Therefore, we can give no assurances regarding our qualification for this tax exemption or that of any of our subsidiaries. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to this exemption under Section 883 for the 2007 Year or any other taxable year, we or our subsidiaries would be subject for such year or years to a 4% U.S. federal gross income tax on our U.S.-source shipping income. While we did not have a material amount of gross income attributable to shipping transportation that begins or ends in the United States for the 2007 Year, we can give no assurance that the trading pattern of our ships will not change in the future. As a result, the imposition of this tax could have a negative effect on our business and could result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income,” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties that are received from unrelated parties 25 Table of Contents in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC, and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our assets, income and operations, we do not believe that for our 2007 Year we were a PFIC. For our 2007 Year, we derived substantially all of our income from time chartering activities of our wholly owned subsidiaries and we expect this to continue in future years. We believe that such time chartering income should be treated for relevant U.S. federal income tax purposes as services income, rather than rental income. Correspondingly, we intend to take the position that such services income should not constitute “passive income,” and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income, in particular our vessels, should not constitute passive assets for purposes of determining whether we were a PFIC for the 2007 Year. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our method of operation. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS or a court will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court could determine that we were a PFIC for the 2007 Year. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. The preferential tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income are temporary, and the enactment of previously proposed legislation could affect whether dividends paid by us constitute qualified dividend income eligible for the preferential rate. Certain of our distributions may be treated as qualified dividend income eligible for preferential rates of U.S. federal income tax to U.S. individual shareholders (and certain other U.S. shareholders). In the absence of legislation extending the term for these preferential tax rates, all dividends received by such U.S. taxpayers in tax years beginning on January 1, 2011 or later will be taxed at ordinary graduated tax rates. In addition, legislation proposed during a preceding legislative session of the U.S. Congress would deny the preferential rate of U.S. federal income tax currently imposed on qualified dividend income with respect to dividends received from a non-U.S. corporation, unless the non-U.S. corporation either is eligible for benefits of a comprehensive income tax treaty with the United States or is created or organized under the laws of a foreign country that has a comprehensive income tax system. Because the Marshall Islands has not entered into a comprehensive income tax treaty with the United States and imposes only limited taxes on entities organized under its laws, it is unlikely that we could satisfy either of these requirements. Consequently, if this legislation were enacted the preferential rate of federal income tax imposed on qualified dividend income may no longer be applicable to dividends received from us. As of the date hereof, it is not possible to predict with any certainty whether this previously proposed legislation will be reintroduced and enacted. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 