Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are certain risk factors that could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. You should carefully read the following risk factors, together with the financial statements, related notes and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that contain risks and uncertainties. Please refer to the discussion of “Forward-Looking Statements” on page two of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in connection with your consideration of the risk factors and other important factors that may affect future results described below. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Adverse changes in the mortgage-backed securities, or MBS, market, particularly in the non-agency or non-conforming sector, the mortgage lending industry or the housing market could result in a reduced demand for our services. Our business is driven in part by the MBS market, and in particular the non-agency market, the mortgage lending industry and the housing market, each of which is highly sensitive to trends in the general economy, including interest rates, economic conditions, taxation policies, availability of credit, employment levels, stringency of underwriting guidelines and wage and salary levels. Adverse changes in any of these trends, the recent downturn in the non-prime mortgage loan market, including the failure of additional non-prime lenders, or a decline in the sale of both new and existing homes or in home values, could lessen the demand for mortgage loans, which could result in a reduced demand for our services and diminish our revenues. A material reduction in the number of loans available for securitization may cause our clients to engage us for fewer services, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our profitability can be affected by fluctuations in the volume of activity in the non-prime mortgage lending market. A large portion of our revenue is generated by various services performed for buyers of, or investors in, non-prime mortgages. Recently, several non-prime mortgage companies have encountered financial difficulties as a result of increased incidences of delinquencies, early payment defaults, first payment defaults and fraud. As a result, certain buyers of, and some investors in, non-prime mortgages have adjusted their investment allocations away from non-prime MBS, begun demanding a higher risk premium for their investment or insisted that non-prime lenders tighten their underwriting standards. These developments may, and in some cases have, increased the cost of capital for non-prime lenders or inhibited their ability to sell their products. As a result, the number of non-prime mortgages that are being originated may be reduced. This, in turn, may reduce the volume of non-prime loans that are being securitized by our customers. Securitization volumes are also affected by other factors including the relative demands for such loans and mortgage-backed securities evidencing interests in such loans, the cost of credit enhancements, investor perceptions of such loans and mortgage-backed securities, and the risks posed by such products. A sustained reduction in the volume of securitizations of non-prime mortgages may cause our clients to engage us for fewer services, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Higher rates of loss in pools of loans that we service could result in lower demand for our services and damage to our reputation as a loan servicer. We are in the business of servicing non-performing mortgage loans. If we experience higher-than-expected levels of loss severity in pools of loans that we service, the demand for our services may be reduced, which would result in a loss of future servicing income and may damage our reputation as a loan servicer and may impair our ability to attract new clients. 13 A sustained downturn in the residential mortgage loan origination business, which is a cyclical industry, may adversely affect our business and harm our operations. The residential mortgage lending origination business has historically been a cyclical industry. The residential mortgage lending industry experienced rapid growth from 2001 through 2005 due, in large part, to declining interest rates. In 2006, the industry experienced a slight decline, and is expected to further decline in the near-term. During periods of rising interest rates, mortgage loan originations generally decrease, as higher interest rates provide reduced economic incentives for borrowers to refinance their existing mortgages. An extended decrease in mortgage loan originations may lead to fewer issuances of mortgage-backed securities and, consequently, demand for our transaction management services may be materially reduced. Our historical performance may not be indicative of results that would occur in a rising interest rate environment during which our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. The market for our services is highly competitive, and if we are not able to compete effectively, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. The market for our services is highly fragmented, intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. Our existing competitors, or future competitors, may have greater name recognition, larger client bases, better technology or data, easier access to data, lower priced services or greater financial, technical, personnel or other resources than we have. We compete with several providers of due diligence services, including large accounting firms and other providers focused on technology products, staffing services, surveillance and special servicing. Larger competitors with greater technical, personnel and financial resources may be better able to respond to the need for technological changes, compete for skilled professionals, build upon efficiencies based on a larger volume of loan transactions, fund internal growth and compete for market share generally. Among the ways in which we may encounter new or increased competition is the hiring or establishment by a competitor of a pool of skilled offshore workers that can provide many of the same services that we provide at substantially lower cost. Also, we may face competition from our clients if they choose to provide such services internally, as opposed to outsourcing these services to us, and from third parties who decide to expand their services, either organically or through merger or acquisition, to include some or all of the services that we provide. Increased competition could result in lower revenues and higher expenses, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The loss of one or more of our largest clients could adversely affect our business and results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2006, revenue from our largest two clients, Deutsche Bank and Morgan Stanley, accounted for an aggregate of 23.8% of our total revenue. Each of these clients accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue. We have experienced similar levels of customer concentration in prior years and we expect these levels of concentration to continue into the foreseeable future. While we have long-standing relationships with our major clients, we generally do not have long-term contracts with these or our other clients. As a result, such clients could significantly decrease or cease their business with us upon limited or no notice. Any loss of major clients or a reduction in the type or scope of services for which such clients engage us could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Additionally, there has been, and may continue to be, substantial merger, acquisition and consolidation activity in the banking and financial services industry. The financial services industry includes many of our largest clients, and these clients may seek to diversify their service providers by utilizing our competitors to perform certain services that we provide. If our clients merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. Finally, the larger banks or financial institutions resulting from mergers or consolidations could decide to internally perform some or all of the services that we currently provide or may provide in 14 the future, and thus terminate our engagements or decrease the level or volume of services we provide. Any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we are inefficient in delivering services to our customers, our profit margins may decrease and we may not be able to compete effectively. The success of our business depends on delivering high-quality services to our clients in a timely manner. Our independent loan review specialists are a key component of our ability to deliver services. If we do not properly manage the activities of our independent loan review specialists and we experience a decrease in their productivity, especially in connection with client engagements that are billed on a per file basis, our profit margins will be adversely affected. In order to maintain our profit margins in times of decreased productivity, we may increase the cost of our services to clients, which could result in reduced demand for our services and/or termination of client engagements with us. A reduction in services, a premature termination of engagements or our inability to increase prices could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Clients can terminate engagements with us at any time. A majority of our transaction management engagements are project-based. Therefore, the utilization of our independent loan review specialists depends on our ability to secure additional engagements on a continual basis. Also, if a client terminates an engagement and we are unable to re-deploy our independent loan review specialists on another engagement within a short period of time, the independent loan review specialists may seek other opportunities for their services, which would increase our labor, recruiting and training costs and could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Maintaining our professional reputation is critical to our future success, and any damage to our reputation may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our ability to secure new engagements and recruit and retain qualified employees and independent loan review specialists depends heavily on our strong reputation in the mortgage loan industry. Because we obtain a majority of our new engagements from existing clients, a client’s dissatisfaction with our performance could seriously impair our ability to secure new engagements from that client and its affiliates. Diminution of our business reputation for any reason could make it substantially more difficult for us to compete successfully for new engagements. Our engagements may result in professional liability. Our services typically involve difficult analytical assignments and carry risks of professional and other liability. Many of our engagements involve matters that could have an impact on our clients’ businesses. For example, our clients depend on us to accurately evaluate compliance with underwriting and regulatory criteria in connection with their analysis of mortgage securities. If a client incurs losses as a result of the services we provide, the client could threaten or bring litigation in order to recover damages or to contest its obligation to pay all or part of our fees. In some cases, a client may seek to recover its losses pursuant to indemnification rights. Litigation alleging that we performed negligently or otherwise breached our obligations to the client could expose us to significant liabilities and tarnish our reputation. In addition to the costs associated with litigation and claims, the perceived exposure to professional liability may make it more expensive to obtain and maintain insurance, including errors and omissions insurance. While we have not experienced any such claims or been subject to litigation to date, any such occurrence could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 15 If we are not able to maintain accurate, comprehensive or reliable systems and data, we could experience reduced demand for our services. Our success depends on our clients’ confidence in the comprehensiveness, accuracy and reliability of our proprietary systems, transaction data and database of loan information. Additionally, we must continuously monitor changes to state predatory lending regulations, and update our compliance software and data accordingly. The task of establishing and maintaining accurate and reliable systems and data is a continuous, complex, multi-step process. If our data, including the data we obtain from third parties, is not current, accurate, comprehensive or reliable or if there is an error in our systems resulting from events such as miscoding of rules or miscalculations of critical data elements, we could experience damage to our reputation or be subject to legal action, either of which could result in reduced demand for our services. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to safeguard the security and privacy of the personal financial information we receive. In connection with our loan file due diligence reviews and other consulting and advisory services that we provide to third parties relating to mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, we have access to personal financial information of the borrowers. This personal financial information is highly sensitive and confidential. If we or a third party were to misappropriate this information, we potentially could be subject to both private and public legal actions. Although we have policies and procedures designed to safeguard confidential information, we cannot assure you that these policies and safeguards are sufficient to prevent the misappropriation of confidential information or that our policies and safeguards will be deemed compliant with any existing or future federal or state laws or regulations governing privacy. An interruption in or breach of our information systems may result in lost business. We rely heavily upon information systems to conduct our business. As we implement our growth strategy this reliance will increase. Any failure or interruption, or breach in security, of our information systems or the third party information systems on which we rely could significantly impede our ability to operate our business. Although such failures, interruptions or breaches have not occurred in the past, we cannot assure you that one will not happen in the future, or if they do occur that we or the third parties on whom we rely will adequately address them. We have implemented precautionary measures to avoid systems outages and to minimize the effects of any data systems interruptions, but we have not instituted fully redundant systems. If we do not build and maintain redundant systems for our data, current clients may terminate their engagements with us and potential clients may utilize one of our competitors for their service needs. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or breach could significantly harm our business. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to license encryption technology and additional technologies to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by any breach. We may be liable for any breach in our security and any breach could harm our reputation, reduce demand for our services or cause clients to terminate their relationships with us. If we lose the services of certain key executive officers, we may not be able to execute our business strategy, manage our growth or compete effectively. Our future success depends in large part on the continued service of our key executive officers, including Frank P. Filipps, our Chief Executive Officer, D. Keith Johnson, our President and Chief Operating Officer and Frederick C. Herbst, our Chief Financial Officer. Although we have employment and non-competition agreements with these executive officers, these individuals may nevertheless leave us. We cannot assure you that these executive officers can be replaced with equally skilled and experienced professionals. Because these executive officers would be difficult to replace, the loss of their services could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 16 Our business could suffer if we are unable to recruit and retain qualified independent loan review specialists. Our business requires us to continually recruit and retain highly qualified and experienced independent loan review specialists to perform due diligence and transaction related services. Our failure to recruit and retain a significant number of qualified independent loan review specialists could limit our ability to accept or complete engagements and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We face significant competition for these specialists from our direct competitors as well as other companies that seek highly qualified, highly educated candidates. Additionally, our competitors currently solicit and may hire our independent loan review specialists after they have completed our thorough training program. Competition for these independent loan review specialists may increase labor and training costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Efforts to expand our product offerings beyond our current markets may not succeed. We have focused on selling our services primarily in the residential non-agency MBS market. Although we currently offer services for other consumer and commercial loan types and related securities, we may expand further into these and other asset classes or geographic regions. Efforts to expand our product offerings beyond the principal market that we currently serve, however, may divert management resources from existing operations and require us to commit significant financial resources to developing new product offerings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Moreover, efforts to expand beyond our existing markets may not result in the creation of new products that achieve market acceptance, create additional revenues or become profitable. We may make acquisitions that prove unsuccessful or strain or divert our resources. We intend to consider acquisitions of other companies in our industry that could complement our business, including the acquisition of entities that would expand our service offerings, increase our market share or offer access to other asset classes that we do not currently serve. We have limited experience in completing acquisitions of other businesses. If we do acquire other businesses, we may not be able to successfully integrate these businesses with our own and we may be unable to maintain our standards, controls and policies. We may fail in our attempt to integrate acquired companies and businesses in such a way that we can realize cross-selling opportunities and other synergies. Further, acquisitions may place additional constraints on our resources by diverting the attention of our management from our business operations. Through acquisitions, we may enter areas in which we have no or limited experience, and an acquisition may be unsuccessful in accomplishing the intended benefits of the transaction. Moreover, any acquisition may result in substantial transaction-related expenses, a potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities, the incurrence of debt or amortization of expenses and related intangible assets, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may not be able to manage our growth or meet marketplace demands effectively. We have expanded significantly in the last few years and intend to maintain our focus on growth. However, our growth will place additional demands on our resources and we cannot be sure that we will be able to manage our growth effectively. In order to successfully manage our growth, we may need to: · expand and enhance our administrative infrastructure; · continue to improve our management, financial and information systems and controls; and · recruit, train, manage and retain our employees and our independent loan review specialists effectively. Continued growth could place a strain on our management, operations and financial resources. In addition, this growth may adversely affect our ability to service the demands of our clients or the quality of 17 services we provide. If we are unable to meet these demands, our competitors may be able to gain a greater market share in the transaction management and credit risk surveillance services market generally, as well as gain a greater share of our clients’ business. We cannot assure you that our infrastructure, operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures, facilities and personnel will be adequate to support our future operations or to effectively adapt to future growth. Our expected additional headcount and capital investments will increase our costs, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by offsetting expense reductions in the short term. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Changes in the regulation of our business and our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business is subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations. Proposals for further regulation and changes in existing regulation that affect our business are regularly being introduced and passed in state legislatures and the U.S. Congress. Proposals that are now receiving a great deal of attention include consumer protection initiatives relating to privacy and security of customer information, and predatory lending regulations. It is possible that one or more other legislative proposals or regulatory changes may be adopted that would have an adverse effect on our business. For example, any changes to the current predatory lending regulations may increase our costs in connection with updating and conforming our High Cost Analyzer compliance application, or, conversely, reduce demand for our compliance related services. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could harm our client relationships or our reputation, inhibit our ability to obtain new engagements, and expose us to class action lawsuits, breach of contract claims, and governmental proceedings, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property rights, or may infringe upon or design around our intellectual property rights. Our competitive position depends largely upon our proprietary products, processes and services. Third parties, however, may claim that we or our products, systems or operations infringe their intellectual property rights, and we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some aspects of our technology, products or services. Any litigation regarding trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights could be costly and time consuming, and divert our management and key personnel from operating our business. If any third party has a meritorious or successful claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, we may be forced to change our products or services or to compensate such third parties, which may be costly or impractical. While we have not experienced any material claims or been subject to litigation to date, any such occurrence could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our success and competitive position depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property rights protecting our products and services. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. We have received federal trademark registrations for CLAYTON and BEYOND DILIGENT, and have filed federal trademark applications to help protect certain trademarks that we use in conjunction with our business, including HIGH COST ANALYZER, HIGH COST FOCUS, CLAS, MASTEREPORTER and our Clayton logo. Our pending applications may not be registered by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, and third parties may challenge the validity or scope of the trademark applications or registrations. Despite our proprietary rights, there can be no assurance that others will not develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around our products. 18 Our loan agreement contains operating and financial covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities. We have entered into a senior loan agreement providing for a $150.0 million term loan and a $50.0 million revolving line of credit. As of December 31, 2006, the unpaid principal balance of our term loan was $64.6 million. Among other things, this senior loan agreement restricts our ability to: · incur or guaranty additional indebtedness; · make capital expenditures; · create liens; · enter into transactions with affiliates; · make loans or investments; · sell assets; · pay dividends or make distributions on, or repurchase, our stock; or · consolidate or merge with other entities. In addition, our senior credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial covenants, which we have complied with as of December 31, 2006. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in this credit facility, as well as any future financing agreements, may restrict our ability to finance our operations, engage in business activities or expand or pursue our business strategies. Our ability to comply with our obligations under the credit facility may be affected by events beyond our control. We may not be able to meet those obligations. A breach of any of our obligations under the credit facility could result in a default, cause any future indebtedness under the revolving line of credit that may be outstanding to become immediately due and payable, and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facility upon any default. If we were unable to repay any outstanding indebtedness, the bank could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged substantially all of our assets, including certain intellectual property, as collateral under the credit facility. We have begun to, and will in the future, incur significant increased costs as a result of our operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time and expense to various compliance issues. We became a publicly traded company on March 24, 2006. As a result of becoming a publicly-traded company, we have begun to, and will in the future, incur substantial additional legal, accounting, and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, along with rules promulgated by the SEC and the Nasdaq Global Market, the market on which our stock trades, have imposed significant new requirements on public companies, including many changes involving corporate governance. Management and other Company personnel have already begun, and will be required to continue, to devote a substantial amount of time to ensuring our compliance with these regulations. Accordingly, our legal and accounting expenses will significantly increase, and certain corporate actions will become more time-consuming and costly. For example, these regulations may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors and various corporate committees, and obtaining director and officer liability insurance will be more expensive. 19 If we have material weaknesses in our internal controls or the actions we have taken to remediate previously identified inadequacies in our internal controls prove ineffective, there could be an adverse effect on our financial reporting. Continued improvement of our internal controls and procedures will be required in order for us to manage future growth successfully and operate effectively as a public company. The continued improvement of our internal controls, as well as compliance with the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, including management’s preparation of its report on our internal control over financial reporting and our independent auditor’s attestation thereof in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, is, and will continue to be, costly and will place a significant burden on management. We have had only limited operating experience with the improvements we have made to remediate the previously identified significant deficiencies and material weakness in our internal controls. We cannot assure you that the remedial measures we have taken or any future measures will enable us to provide accurate and timely financial reports. Any failure to improve our internal controls and procedures could result in delays or inaccuracies in reporting financial information, or non-compliance with SEC reporting and other regulatory requirements, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operation. Risks Related to the Common Stock and Our Capital Structure There is a limited history of a trading market for our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may be highly volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance. There has only been a public market for our common stock since the completion of our initial public offering in late March 2006. The trading market in our common stock may be volatile. The market prices of the securities of newly public companies have been volatile, and have been known to decline rapidly. Broad market and industry conditions and trends may cause fluctuations in the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Future sales of our shares could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our stockholders that held our stock prior to our initial public offering now hold a significant percentage of our outstanding shares of common stock. Any sale (or any distributions by partnership stockholders to their limited partners followed by a sale) by us or our current stockholders of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. Substantially all of the holders of our common stock prior to our initial public offering have rights, subject to some limited conditions, to demand that we file a registration statement on their behalf to register their shares or that we include their shares in a registration statement that we file on our behalf or on behalf of other stockholders. If such demand rights are exercised pursuant to the terms and conditions of the registration rights agreement, we will incur significant expenses in connection with the filing of such registration statement. Additionally, the filing of a registration statement at the request of the stockholders may divert the attention of our senior management from our business operations. Our directors and certain significant stockholders exercise significant control over Clayton. Our directors, and significant stockholders and their affiliates, including TA Associates, collectively control a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, are able to influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Clayton and might affect the market price of our common stock. 20 We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us. Issuances of our equity securities to provide this capital may dilute your ownership in us. We may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in order to: · take advantage of expansion opportunities; · acquire complementary businesses or technologies; · develop new services and products; or · respond to competitive pressures. Any additional capital raised through the issuance of our equity securities may dilute your percentage ownership interest in us. Furthermore, any additional financing we may need may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. The unavailability of needed financing could adversely affect our ability to execute our growth strategy. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may deter third parties from acquiring us. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of Clayton more difficult without the approval of our board of directors, including the following: · our board of directors is divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; · only our board of directors may call special meetings of our stockholders; · our stockholders may take action only at a meeting of our stockholders and not by written consent; · we have authorized undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; · stockholder approval of amendments of our certificate of incorporation or by-laws requires a vote of 75% of our outstanding shares; · vacancies on the board of directors may be filled only by the directors; · our directors may be removed only for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of 75% of the votes that all stockholders would be entitled to cast in the election of directors; and · we require advance notice for stockholder proposals. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of Clayton. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions that you desire. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may delay, defer or prevent a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits “business combinations” between a Delaware corporation and an “interested stockholder,” which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation’s voting stock for a three-year period following the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder absent prior approval of our board of directors. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. 21 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 