Item 1A. Risk factors Risks associated with our business We are a development stage company with limited operating history and, accordingly, our stockholders do not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently incorporated development stage company with limited operating results to date. During the year ended December 31, 2005, we incurred operating expenses in the aggregate amount of $221,100. We will not generate any revenues (other than interest income on the proceeds of our initial public offering) until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. Due to our limited operating history, our stockholders have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire an operating business. If we are forced to liquidate before a business combination and distribute the trust account, our public stockholders will receive less than $6.00 per share upon distribution of the trust account and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination within the required time frame and are forced to liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation distribution will be less than $6.00 because of the expenses of the offering, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking a business combination. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants which will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a business combination. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by stockholders would be less than $5.54 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities that we engage execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements. If any third party refused to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, we would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to us and evaluate if such engagement would be in the best interest of our stockholders if such third party refused to waive such claims. Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refused to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where management does not believe it would be able to find a provider of required services willing to provide the waiver. In addition, there is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. If we liquidate before the completion of a business combination and distribute the proceeds held in trust to our public stockholders, Messrs. Stone, Kaplan, Chapman, Furer and Rahman, our officers and directors, severally, in accordance with their respective beneficial ownership interests in us will be personally liable to pay debts and obligations to vendors that are owed money by us for services rendered or products sold to us in excess of the net proceeds of the offering not held in the trust account at that time. However, we cannot assure you that these individuals will be able to satisfy those obligations. Further, they will not be personally liable to pay debts and obligations to prospective target businesses if a business combination is not consummated with such prospective target businesses, or for claims from any entity other than vendors. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and the per-share liquidation price could be less than $5.54, plus interest (net of taxes payable), due to claims of such creditors. Since we have not yet selected a target business with which to complete a business combination, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the business in which we may ultimately operate. There is no current basis for our stockholders to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the target business which we may ultimately acquire. To the extent we complete a business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. 9 We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business combination which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and could likely cause a change in control of our ownership. We may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: · may significantly reduce the equity interest of our officers and directors; · could likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and may also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Similarly, if we issue debt securities, it could result in: · default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating income and other resources after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; · acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contains covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant is breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; · our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and · our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding. The ability of our stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. At the time we seek stockholder approval of the initial business combination, we will offer each public stockholder the right to have such stockholder’s shares of common stock redeemed for cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and completed. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such redemption rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust fund for possible payment upon such redemption, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their redemption rights than we expected. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate a business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or we may end up having a leverage ratio that is not optimal for our business combination. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. Because of the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination within the required time frame. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including leveraged buyout funds, hedge funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do. Further, the obligation we have to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction, and our obligation to convert into cash the shares of common stock held by public stockholders in certain instances may reduce the resources available for a business combination. Additionally, our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. We are limited by the requirement that our initial business combination must be with a business with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such acquisition. This requirement prevents us from initially targeting smaller companies, even if we believe they are attractive candidates for acquisition. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. 10 Although we believe that the net proceeds of our initial public offering will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, in as much as we have not yet identified any prospective target business, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of the offering prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or because we become obligated to convert into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, we may be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. Our officers and directors control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our officers and directors own 22.0% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock and may have considerable influence over the outcome of all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including our initial business combination and the election of directors. In addition, our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of two years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office at least until the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our officers and directors, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our officers and directors will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of a business combination. Our current officers and directors may resign upon consummation of a business combination. Upon consummation of a business combination, the role of our key personnel in the target business cannot presently be ascertained. Although it is presently contemplated that our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and our President will remain associated in various capacities with the target business following a business combination, it is possible that the management of the target business at the time of the business combination will remain in place. Alternatively, we may recruit new management team members to join the target business. Moreover, our current management will only be able to remain with the combined company after the consummation of a business combination if they are able to negotiate the same as part of any such combination. In making the determination as to whether current management should remain with us following the business combination, management will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business’ management and negotiate as part of the business combination that certain members of current management remain if it is believed that it is in the best interests of the combined company post-business combination. If management negotiates to be retained post-business combination as a condition to any potential business combination, management may look unfavorably upon or reject a business combination with a potential target business whose owners refuse to retain members of our management post-business combination, thereby resulting in a conflict of interest. Although we intend to closely scrutinize the management of a prospective target business in connection with evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of management will prove to be correct. Our officers are parties to non-competition agreements that limits the types of companies we can target for a business combination and may make us a less attractive buyer to certain target companies. Roger Stone, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Matthew Kaplan, our President, are parties to non-competition agreements that were entered into in connection with the sale of their most recent business, Box USA Holdings, Inc., to International Paper Company. These agreements, which expire in July 2007, prohibit our officers from participation in businesses engaged in the manufacture of corrugated packaging, containers or containerboard. This prohibition may limit our ability to consummate a business combination in certain sectors of the paper, packaging, forest products and related industries. To the extent that an entity we identify as a potential target manufactures corrugated packaging, containers or containerboard or has similar operations, such potential target may need to dispose of such operations as part of a business combination with us. If this occurs, it may make us a less attractive buyer for the entity and adversely impact our position among competing acquirors. 11 Our officers and directors may allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. All of our executive officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours to our affairs. While it is our executive officers’ intention to devote substantial business time to identifying potential targets and consummating a business combination, the amount of time devoted will vary depending on the stage of a potential business combination (i.e. from approximately 10 hours per week during target identification to substantially full time during due diligence and negotiations) and their other business affairs could in the future require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, thereby limiting their ability to devote sufficient time to our affairs. This could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Some of our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Some of our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, after we complete a business combination, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities to which they have fiduciary obligations. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Because we have no “independent” directors, actions taken and expenses incurred by our officers and directors on our behalf will generally not be subject to “independent” review. Each of our directors owns shares of our common stock and, although no compensation will be paid to them for services rendered prior to or in connection with a business combination, they may receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with activities on our behalf such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business combinations. There is no limit on the amount of these out-of-pocket expenses and there will be no review of the reasonableness of the expenses by anyone other than our board of directors, which includes persons who may seek reimbursement, or a court of competent jurisdiction if such reimbursement is challenged. To the extent that such expenses exceed the available proceeds not deposited in the trust fund, such out-of-pocket expenses would not be reimbursed by us unless we consummate a business combination. Because none of our directors will be deemed “independent,” we will generally not have the benefit of independent directors examining the propriety of expenses incurred on our behalf and subject to reimbursement. Although we believe that all actions taken by our directors on our behalf will be in our best interests, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. If actions are taken, or expenses are incurred that are not in our best interests, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations and the price of our stock held by the public stockholders. All of our officers and directors own shares of our common stock which will not participate in liquidation distributions and therefore they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. All of our officers and directors own stock in our company, but have waived their right to receive distributions (other than with respect to units they purchased in the initial public offering or common stock they purchase in the aftermarket) upon our liquidation prior to a business combination. Additionally, they own warrants that will expire worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our officers and directors may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination timely. Consequently, our officers’ and directors’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. 12 Our officers and directors will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount not in the trust fund unless the business combination is consummated and therefore they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination and in the public stockholders’ best interest. Our officers and directors will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the available proceeds not deposited in the trust fund unless the business combination is consummated. In such event, our officers and directors may, as part of any such combination, negotiate the repayment of some or all of any such expenses, with or without interest or other compensation, which if not agreed to by the target business’ owners, could cause our management to view such potential business combination unfavorably, thereby resulting in a conflict of interest. The financial interest of our officers and directors could influence their motivation in selecting a target business and thus, there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the stockholders’ best interest. Risks associated with the paper, packaging, forest products and related industries The paper, packaging, forest products and related industries are highly cyclical. Fluctuations in the prices of and the demand for a target company’s products could result in smaller profit margins and lower sales volumes. Historically, economic and market shifts, fluctuations in capacity and changes in foreign currency exchange rates have created cyclical changes in prices, sales volume and margins for products in the paper, packaging, forest products and related industries. The length and magnitude of industry cycles have varied over time and by product, but generally reflect changes in macroeconomic conditions and levels of industry capacity. Most paper products and many wood products used in the packaging industry are commodities that are widely available from many producers. Because commodity products have few distinguishing qualities from producer to producer, competition for these products is based primarily on price, which is determined by supply relative to demand. The overall levels of demand for these commodity products reflect fluctuations in levels of end-user demand, which depend in large part on general macroeconomic conditions in North America and regional economic conditions in our markets, as well as foreign currency exchange rates. The foregoing factors could materially and adversely impact sales and profitability of a target company with which we might seek a business combination. Difficulty obtaining timber at favorable prices, or at all, may negatively impact companies in the packaging industry. Wood fiber is the principal raw material in many parts of the packaging industry. Wood fiber is a commodity, and prices historically have been cyclical. Environmental litigation and regulatory developments have caused, and may cause in the future, significant reductions in the amount of timber available for commercial harvest in the United States. These reductions have caused the closure of plywood and lumber operations in some of the geographic areas in which a target company might operate. In addition, future domestic or foreign legislation and litigation concerning the use of timberlands, the protection of endangered species, the promotion of forest health and the response to and prevention of catastrophic wildfires could also affect timber supplies. Availability of harvested timber may further be limited by fire, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, wind storms, flooding and other natural and man made causes, thereby reducing supply and increasing prices. Industry supply of commodity paper and wood products is also subject to fluctuation, as changing industry conditions can influence producers to idle or permanently close individual machines or entire mills. In addition, to avoid substantial cash costs in connection with idling or closing a mill, some producers will choose to continue to operate at a loss, sometimes even a cash loss, which could prolong weak pricing environments due to oversupply. Oversupply in these markets can also result from producers introducing new capacity in response to favorable short-term pricing trends. Industry supply of commodity papers and wood products is also influenced by overseas production capacity, which has grown in recent years and is expected to continue to grow. Wood fiber pricing is subject to regional market influences, and the cost of wood fiber may increase in particular regions due to market shifts in those regions. In addition, the ability to obtain wood fiber from foreign countries may be impacted by legal and political conditions in that country as well as transportation difficulties. An increase in the cost of purchased energy or chemicals would lead to higher manufacturing costs, thereby reducing margins. Energy is a significant raw material in the paper, packaging, forest products and related industries. Energy prices, particularly for electricity, natural gas and fuel oil, have been volatile in recent years and currently exceed historical averages. These fluctuations have historically impacted manufacturing costs of companies in these industries, often contributing to earnings volatility. Recent significant increases in energy prices can be expected to adversely impact businesses in these industries. In addition, a target company could be materially adversely impacted by supply disruptions. 13 Paper, packaging and forest products companies face strong competition. The paper, packaging, forest products and related industries are highly fragmented, and a target company will face competition from numerous competitors, domestic as well as foreign. It is likely that some of a target company’s competitors will be large, vertically integrated companies that have greater financial and other resources, greater manufacturing economies of scale, greater energy self-sufficiency and/or lower operating costs than the target company. Certain paper and wood products are vulnerable to long-term declines in demand due to competing technologies or materials. Companies in the paper, packaging, forest products and related industries are subject to possible declines in demand for their products as the use of alternative materials and technologies grows and the prices of such alternatives become more competitive. Any substantial shift in demand from wood and paper products to competing technologies or materials could result in a material decrease in sales of a target company’s products. While we would seek to have a target company adapt its product offerings to changes in market demand, we cannot assure you that any efforts will be successful or sufficient. Packaging companies are subject to significant environmental regulation and environmental compliance expenditures, as well as other potential environmental liabilities. Companies in the packaging industry are subject to a wide range of general and industry-specific environmental laws and regulations, particularly with respect to air emissions, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous waste management, site remediation, forestry operations and endangered species habitats. A target company will in all likelihood incur substantial expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, could expose a target company to civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including orders limiting operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or other remedial actions. Item 