Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are risks that we believe are material to investors who purchase or own our common stock. You should consider carefully the following risks, together with the other information contained in and incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Strategic Alternative Evaluation and Potential Transaction On January 7, 2011, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had begun a process to evaluate strategic alternatives for the Company. There can be no assurance that the review of strategic alternatives will result in the Company pursuing any particular transaction, or, if it pursues any such transaction, that it will be completed. Also on January 7, 2011, the Company announced that Ms. Pamela Little, its Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Mr. John Hassoun, a Senior Vice President, would become Co-Chief Executive Officers, effective February 1, 2011, with Ms. Little having primary responsibility for financial and administrative aspects of the Company’s affairs and Mr. Hassoun having primary responsibility for operational matters. The announcement of our strategic alternative evaluation could adversely affect our business, financial results and operations. The announcement of our strategic alternative evaluation, as well as our recent senior management transitions, could cause disruptions in, and create uncertainty surrounding, our business, including affecting our relationships with our customers, vendors and employees, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial results and operations. In particular, we could lose important personnel as a result of the departure of employees who decide to pursue other opportunities in light of our announcement. We could potentially lose customers or suppliers, or contracts could be delayed or decreased. In addition, we have diverted, and will continue to divert, significant management resources in an effort to evaluate such strategic alternatives, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations The loss or impairment of ATSI’s relationship with the U.S. government and its agencies could adversely affect our business. ATSI derived approximately 74% and 81% of its total revenue in fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively, from contracts with the U.S. government and 87% and 91% of its total revenue for fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively, when government-sponsored enterprises are included. We expect that U.S. government contracts will continue to be a significant source of revenue for the foreseeable future. If ATSI or any of its partners is suspended or prohibited from contracting with the U.S. government generally or any agency or related entity, if ATSI’s reputation or relationship with government agencies is impaired, or if the U.S. government or any agency or related entity ceased doing business with them or significantly decreases the amount of business it does with them, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results could be significantly impaired. Changes by the U.S. government in its spending priorities may cause a reduction in the demand for the products or services that we may ultimately offer, which could adversely affect our business. Changes in the U.S. government budgetary priorities could directly affect our financial performance. Government expenditures tend to fluctuate based on a variety of political, economic and social factors. A significant decline in government expenditures, or a shift of expenditures away from programs we support, or a change in U.S. government contracting policies causing its agencies to reduce their expenditures under contracts, to exercise their right to terminate contracts at any time without penalty, not to exercise options to renew contracts or to delay or not enter into new contracts, could adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results. The U.S. government may reform its procurement or other practices in a manner adverse to us. Because we derive a significant portion of our revenue from contracts with the U.S. government or its agencies, we believe that the success and development of our business will depend on its continued successful participation in federal contracting programs. The U.S. government may reform its procurement practices or adopt new contracting rules and regulations, including cost accounting standards, that could be costly to satisfy or that could impair our ability to obtain new contracts. It also could adopt new contracting methods to General Services Administration, or GSA, or other government-wide contracts, or adopt new standards for contract awards intended to achieve certain socio-economic or other policy objectives, such as establishing new set-aside programs for small or minority-owned businesses. In addition, the U.S. government may face restrictions from new legislation or regulations, as well as pressure from government employees and their unions, on the nature and amount of services the U.S. government may obtain from private contractors. These changes could impair our ability to obtain new contracts. Any new contracting methods could be costly or administratively difficult for us to implement and, as a result, could harm our operating results. 9 Government contracts are usually awarded through a competitive bidding process that entails risks not present in other circumstances. A significant portion of our contracts and task orders with the U.S. government is awarded through a competitive bidding process. We expect that much of the business we seek in the foreseeable future will continue to be awarded through competitive bidding. Budgetary pressures and changes in the procurement process have caused many government clients to increasingly purchase goods and services through indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity, or ID/IQ, contracts, GSA schedule contracts and other government-wide acquisition contracts, or GWACs. These contracts, some of which are awarded to multiple contractors, have increased competition and pricing pressure, requiring us to make sustained post-award efforts to realize revenue under each such contract. Competitive bidding presents a number of risks, including without limitation: • the need to bid on programs in advance of the completion of their design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns; • the substantial cost and managerial time and effort that we may spend to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us; • the need to estimate accurately the resources and cost structure that will be required to service any contract we award; and • the expense and delay that may arise if our or our teaming partners’ competitors protest or challenge contract awards made to us or our teaming partners pursuant to competitive bidding, and the risk that any such protest or challenge could result in the resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in the termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract. If we are unable to consistently win new contract awards over any extended period, our business and prospects will be adversely affected, and that could cause our actual results to be adversely affected. In addition, upon the expiration of a contract, if the client requires further services of the type provided by the contract, there is frequently a competitive rebidding process. There can be no assurance that we will win any particular bid, or that we will be able to replace business lost upon expiration or completion of a contract, and the termination or non-renewal of any of our significant contracts could cause our actual results to be adversely affected. Restrictions on or other changes to the U.S. government’s use of service contracts may harm our operating results. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from service contracts with the U.S. government. The U.S. government may face restrictions from new legislation, regulations or government union pressures, on the nature and amount of services the government may obtain from private contractors. Any reduction in the government’s use of private contractors to provide federal services would adversely impact our business. Our contracts with the U.S. government and its agencies are subject to audits and cost adjustments. U.S. government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency, or the DCAA, routinely audit and investigate government contracts and government contractors’ incurred costs, administrative processes and systems. These agencies review our performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. They also review our compliance with government regulations and policies and the adequacy of our internal control systems and policies, including our purchase, property, estimation, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and any such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. Moreover, if any of the administrative processes and systems are found not to comply with requirements, we may be subjected to increased government scrutiny and approval that could delay or otherwise adversely affect our ability to compete for or perform contracts. Therefore, an unfavorable outcome by an audit by the DCAA or another government agency could cause actual results to be adversely affected and differ materially from those anticipated. If a government investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeitures of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with the U.S. government. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. Each of these results could cause our actual results to be adversely affected. 10 A portion of our business depends upon obtaining and maintaining required security clearances, and our failure to do so could result in termination of certain of our contracts or cause us to be unable to bid or rebid on certain contracts. Some U.S. government contracts require our employees to maintain various levels of security clearances, and we may be required to maintain certain facility security clearances complying with U.S. government requirements. Obtaining and maintaining security clearances for employees involves a lengthy process, and it is difficult to identify, recruit and retain employees who already hold security clearances. If our employees are unable to obtain or retain security clearances or if such employees who hold security clearances terminate their employment with us, the customer whose work requires cleared employees could terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon expiration. To the extent we are not able to engage employees with the required security clearances for a particular contract, we may not be able to bid on or win new contracts, or effectively re-bid on expiring contracts, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, we expect that some of the contracts on which we bid will require us to demonstrate our ability to obtain facility security clearances and perform work with employees who hold specified types of security clearances. A facility security clearance is an administrative determination that a particular facility is eligible for access to classified information or an award of a classified contract. A contractor or prospective contractor must meet certain eligibility requirements before it can be processed for facility security clearance. Contracts may be awarded prior to the issuance of a facility security clearance, and in such cases the contractor is processed for facility security clearance at the appropriate level and must meet the eligibility requirements for access to classified information. Our ability to obtain and maintain facility security clearances has a direct impact on our ability to compete for and perform U.S. government contracts, the performance of which requires access to classified information. We do not expect potential acquisitions to endanger our facility clearances. However, to the extent that any acquisition or merger contemplated by us might adversely impact our eligibility for facility security clearance, the U.S. government could revoke our facility security clearance if we are unable to address adequately concerns regarding potential unauthorized access to classified information. We may not receive the full amounts authorized under the contracts included in our backlog, which could reduce our revenue in future periods. Our backlog consists of funded backlog, which is based on amounts actually obligated by a client for payment of goods and services, and unfunded backlog, which is based upon management’s estimate of the future potential of our existing contracts and task orders, including options, to generate revenue. Our unfunded backlog may not result in actual revenue in any particular period, or at all, which could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. Without additional Congressional appropriations, some of the contracts included in our backlog will remain unfunded, which could significantly harm our prospects. Although many of our U.S. government contracts require performance over a period of years, Congress often appropriates funds for these contracts one year at a time. As a result, our contracts typically are only partially funded at any point during their term, and all or some of the work intended to be performed under the contracts will remain unfunded pending subsequent Congressional appropriations and the obligation of additional funds to the contract by the procuring agency. Nevertheless, we estimate our share of the contract values, including values based on the assumed exercise of options relating to these contracts, in calculating the amount of our backlog. Because we may not receive the full amount we expect under a contract, our estimate of our backlog may be inaccurate. Loss of our GSA contracts or GWACs could impair our ability to attract new business. We are a prime contractor under several GSA contracts, blanket purchase agreements, and GWAC schedule contracts. Our ability to continue to provide services under these contracts will continue to be important to our business because of the multiple opportunities for new engagements each contract provides. If we were to lose our position as prime contractor on one or more of these contracts, we could lose substantial revenue and our operating results could be adversely affected. Our GSA contracts and other GWACs have an initial term of five or more years, with multiple options exercisable at the government client’s discretion to extend the contract for one or more years. There can be no assurances that government clients will continue to exercise the options remaining on our current contracts, nor can we be assured that future clients will exercise options on any contracts we may receive. 11 We are required to comply with complex procurement laws and regulations, and the cost of compliance with these laws and regulations, as well as penalties and sanctions for any non-compliance could adversely affect our business. We are required to comply with laws and regulations relating to the administration and performance of U.S. government contracts, which affect how we do business with our customers and impose added costs on our business. If a government review or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. government agencies, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results. U.S. government contracts often contain provisions that are unfavorable, which could adversely affect our business. U.S. government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that give the U.S. government rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts, including, without limitation, allowing the U.S. government to: • terminate existing contracts for convenience, as well as for default; • establish limitations on future services that can be offered to prospective clients based on conflict of interest regulations; • reduce or modify contracts or subcontracts; • cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; • decline to exercise an option to renew a multi-year contract; • claim intellectual property rights in products provided by us; and • suspend or bar us from doing business with the federal government or with a governmental agency. If a government client terminates one of our contracts for convenience, we may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses, and profit on work completed prior to the termination. If a federal government client were to unexpectedly terminate, cancel, or decline to exercise an option to renew with respect to one or more of our significant contracts or suspend or debar us from doing business with government agencies, our revenue and operating results could be materially harmed. Our failure to comply with complex procurement laws and regulations could cause us to lose business and subject us to a variety of penalties. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of federal government contracts, which affect how we do business with our government clients and may impose added costs on our business. Among the most significant regulations are: • the Federal Acquisition Regulation, and agency regulations analogous or supplemental to the Federal Acquisition Regulation, which comprehensively regulate the formation, administration, and performance of government contracts, including provisions relating to the avoidance of conflicts of interest and intra-organizational conflicts of interest; • the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with some contract negotiations; • the Contractor Business Ethics Compliance Program and Disclosure Requirements, which requires contractors to disclose credible evidence of certain crimes, violations of civil False Claims Act (“FCA”), or a significant overpayment; • the Procurement Integrity Act, which requires evaluation of ethical conflicts surrounding procurement activity and establishing certain employment restrictions for individuals who participate in the procurement process; 12 • the Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under some cost-based government contracts; • laws, regulations, and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of specified products, technologies, and technical data; • laws surrounding lobbying activities a corporation may engage in and operation of a Political Action Committee established to support corporate interests; and • compliance with antitrust laws. If a government review or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, harm to our reputation, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. The government may in the future reform its procurement practices or adopt new contracting rules and regulations, including cost accounting standards, that could be costly to satisfy or that could impair our ability to obtain new contracts. Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in contract termination, price or fee reductions, or suspension or debarment from contracting with the federal government, each of which could lead to a material reduction in our revenue. The markets we compete in are highly competitive, and many of the companies we compete against have substantially greater resources. The markets in which we operate include a large number of participants and are highly competitive. Many of our competitors may compete more effectively than we can because they are larger, better financed and better known companies than us. In order to stay competitive in our industry, we must also keep pace with changing technologies and client preferences. If we are unable to differentiate our services from those of our competitors, our revenue may be adversely affected. In addition, our competitors have established relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to address client needs. As a result, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and compete more effectively than we can. There is also a significant industry trend towards consolidation, which may result in the emergence of companies that are better able to compete against us. The results of these competitive pressures could cause our business to be adversely affected. Our failure to attract and retain qualified employees, including our senior management team, may adversely affect our business. Our continued success depends to a substantial degree on our ability to recruit and retain the technically skilled personnel we need to serve our clients effectively. Our business involves the development of tailored solutions for our clients, a process that relies heavily upon the expertise and services of employees. Accordingly, our employees are our most valuable resource. Competition for skilled personnel in the information technology services industry is intense, and technology service companies often experience high attrition among their skilled employees. There is a shortage of people capable of filling these positions, and they are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. Recruiting and training these personnel requires substantial resources. Our failure to attract and retain technical personnel could increase our costs of performing our contractual obligations, reduce our ability to efficiently satisfy our clients’ needs, limit our ability to win new business and constrain our future growth. In addition to attracting and retaining qualified technical personnel, we believe that our success will depend on the continued employment of our senior management and its ability to generate new business and execute projects successfully. Due to a variety of reasons, we have had a high turnover rate in our Chief Executive Officer position in recent months. Currently, Ms. Little, our Chief Financial Officer, is also serving as Co-Chief Executive Officer with Mr. Hassoun, a former Senior Vice President. Our senior management team is very important to our business because personal reputations and individual business relationships are a critical element of obtaining and maintaining client engagements in our industry, particularly with agencies performing classified operations. The loss of any of our senior executives, particularly Ms. Little and Mr. Hassoun, who have served our Company in prior capacities and recently taken on additional responsibilities at a critical time for the Company, could cause us to lose client relationships or new business opportunities, which could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. 13 If we are unable to fund our capital expenditures, we may not be able to continue to develop new offerings and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In order to fund our capital expenditures, we may be required to incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or equity securities. Our ability to access the capital markets for future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such offering, as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures would limit our ability to develop new offerings and services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our employees may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, which could harm our business. We are exposed to the risk that employee fraud or other misconduct could occur. Misconduct by employees could include intentional failures to comply with federal government procurement regulations, engaging in unauthorized activities, seeking reimbursement for improper expenses or falsifying time records. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of our clients’ sensitive or classified information, which could result in regulatory sanctions against us and serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses, which could harm our business. We may be unable to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. The protection of our trade secrets, proprietary know-how, technological innovations, other proprietary information and other intellectual property protections in the U.S. and other countries may be critical to our success. We may rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect any proprietary technology or other rights we may have or acquire. Despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of those proprietary rights or deter independent development of technologies that compete with us. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. It is also possible that third parties may claim we have infringed their patent, trademark, copyright or other proprietary rights. Claims or litigation, with or without merit, could result in substantial costs and diversions of resources, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and business. We may be harmed by intellectual property infringement claims. We may become subject to claims from our employees and third parties who assert that intellectual property we use in delivering services and business solutions to our clients infringe upon intellectual property rights of such employees or third parties. Our employees develop much of the intellectual property that we use to provide our services and business solutions to our clients, but we also license technology from other vendors. All of our employees with access to proprietary information execute nondisclosure agreements with the Company. If our vendors, employees, or third parties assert claims that we or our clients are infringing on their intellectual property, we could incur substantial costs to defend those claims. In addition, if any of these infringement claims is ultimately successful, we could be required to: • cease selling and using products and services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain a license or additional licenses from our vendors or other third parties; and • redesign our products and services that rely on the challenged intellectual property. Any of these outcomes could further adversely affect our operating results. 14 Our quarterly revenue, operating results and profitability could be volatile. Our quarterly revenue, operating results and profitability may fluctuate significantly and unpredictably in the future. Factors which may contribute to the volatility of quarterly revenue, operating results or profitability include: • fluctuations in revenue earned on contracts; • commencement, completion, and termination of contracts during any particular quarter; • variable purchasing patterns under GSA Schedule contracts, and agency-specific ID/IQ contracts; • additions and departures of key personnel; • changes in our staff utilization rates; • timing of significant costs, investments and/or receipt of incentive fees; • strategic decisions by us and our competitors, such as our recent decision and announcement to evaluate strategic alternatives, or acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments, and changes in business strategy; • contract mix and the extent of use of subcontractors; • changes in policy and budgetary measures that adversely affect government contracts; and • any seasonality of our business. Therefore, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indicator of our future performance. Our quarterly operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which in turn may have an adverse affect on the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, reductions in revenue in a particular quarter could lead to lower profitability in that quarter because a relatively large amount of our expenses are fixed in the short-term. We may incur significant operating expenses during the start-up and early stages of large contracts and may not receive corresponding payments or revenue in that same quarter. We may also incur significant or unanticipated expenses or both when contracts expire, are terminated, or are not renewed. In addition, payments due to us from government agencies and departments may be delayed due to billing cycles, as a result of failures of governmental budgets to gain Congressional and administration approval in a timely manner, and for other reasons. If subcontractors on our prime contracts are able to secure positions as prime contractors, we may lose revenue. For each of the past several years, as the GSA Schedule contracts have increasingly been used as contract vehicles, we have received substantial revenue from government clients relating to work performed by other firms acting as subcontractors to us. In some cases, companies that have not held GSA Schedule contracts have approached us in our capacity as a prime contractor, seeking to perform services as our subcontractor for a government client. Some of the providers that are currently acting as subcontractors to us may in the future secure positions as prime contractors upon renewal of a GSA Schedule contract. If one or more of our current subcontractors is awarded prime contractor status in the future, it could reduce or eliminate our revenue for the work they were performing as subcontractors to us. Revenue derived from work performed by ATSI’s subcontractors for both fiscal years 2010 and 2009 represented 37% of our GSA Schedule gross revenue. If our subcontractors fail to perform their contractual obligations, our performance as a prime contractor and our ability to obtain future business could be materially and adversely impacted. 15 Our performance of government contracts may involve the issuance of subcontracts to other companies upon which we rely to perform all or a portion of the work. We are obligated to deliver to our clients. A failure by one or more of our subcontractors to satisfactorily deliver on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies and/or perform the agreed-upon services may materially and adversely affect our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor. In extreme cases, a subcontractor’s performance deficiency could result in the government terminating our contract for default. A default termination could expose us to liability for excess costs of reprocurement by the government and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and task orders. We sometimes incur costs before a contract is executed or appropriately modified. To the extent a suitable contract or modification is not later signed and these costs are not reimbursed, our revenue and profits will be reduced. When circumstances warrant, we sometimes incur expenses and perform work without a signed contract or appropriate modification to an existing contract to cover such expenses or work. When we do so, we are working “at-risk,” and there is a chance that the subsequent contract or modification will not ensue, or if it does, that it will not allow us to be paid for the expenses already incurred or work already performed or both. In such cases, we have generally been successful in obtaining the required contract or modification, but any failure to do so in the future could adversely affect operating results. We may lose money or incur financial penalties if we agree to provide services under a performance-based contract arrangement. Under certain performance-based contract arrangements, we are paid only to the extent our customer actually realizes savings or achieves some other performance-based improvements that result from our services. In addition, we may also incur certain penalties. Performance-based contracts could impose substantial costs and risks, including: • the need to accurately understand and estimate in advance the improved performance that might result from our services; • the lack of experience both we and our primary customers have in using this type of contract arrangement; and • the requirement that we incur significant expenses with no guarantee of recovering these expenses or realizing a profit in the future. Even if we successfully execute a performance-based contract, our interim operating results and cash flows may be negatively affected by the fact that we may be required to incur significant up-front expenses prior to realizing any related revenue. If we are unable to manage our growth, our business may be adversely affected. Executing our growth strategy may place significant demands on our management, as well as on our administrative, operational and financial resources. If we sustain significant growth, we must improve our operational, financial and management information systems and expand, motivate and manage our workforce. If we are unable to do so, or if new systems that we implement to assist in managing any future growth do not produce the expected benefits, our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. 16 Risks Associated with Our Acquisitions We may not be successful in identifying acquisition candidates and, if we undertake acquisitions, they could be expensive, increase our costs or liabilities, or disrupt our business. Additionally, if we are unable to successfully integrate companies we acquire, our revenue and operating results may be impaired. One of our strategies is to augment our organic growth through acquisitions. In addition to our acquisition of ATSI, we have completed three acquisitions of complementary companies in the last four years. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates at prices that we consider appropriate or to finance acquisitions on terms that are satisfactory to us. Acquisitions of businesses or other material operations may require additional debt or equity financing, resulting in leverage or dilution of ownership. Additionally, negotiations of potential acquisitions and the integration of acquired business operations could disrupt our business by diverting management attention away from day-to-day operations and we may not be able to successfully integrate the companies we acquire. We also may not realize cost efficiencies or synergies that we anticipated when selecting our acquisition candidates. Acquired companies may have liabilities or adverse operating issues that we fail to discover through due diligence. Any costs, liabilities, or disruptions associated with future acquisitions could harm our operating results. In addition, following the integration of acquired companies, we may experience increased attrition, including but not limited to, key employees of acquired companies, which could reduce our future revenue. As a result of our acquisitions, we have substantial amounts of goodwill and intangible assets, and changes in future business conditions could cause these assets to become impaired, requiring substantial write-downs that would adversely affect our financial results. Our acquisitions involved purchase prices well in excess of net tangible asset values, resulting in the creation of a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. As of December 31, 2010, goodwill and purchased intangibles accounted for approximately $55 million and $4 million, or approximately 63% and 5%, respectively, of our total assets. We will consider acquiring businesses if and when opportunities arise, further increasing these amounts. To the extent that we determine that such an asset has been impaired, we will write down its carrying value on our balance sheet and book an impairment charge in our statement of operations. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently depending on specific events or when evidence of potential impairment exists. The annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. Principally, a significant decrease in expected revenue from customers, or contract backlog or increases in operating expenses could have a significant impact on our operating results and cash flow, as well as our stock price, indicating a potential impairment of recorded goodwill. If economic conditions should deteriorate in the future, causing further decline to the business, then additional impairments could occur. ATSI will continue to monitor the recoverability of the carrying value of its goodwill and other long-lived assets. See Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates in Part II, Item 7. We amortize finite lived intangible assets over their estimated useful lives, and also review them for impairment. If, as a result of acquisitions or otherwise, the amount of intangible assets being amortized increases or decreases, so will our amortization charges in future periods. Businesses that we acquire may have greater-than-expected liabilities for which we become responsible. Businesses we acquire may have liabilities or adverse operating issues, or both, that we fail to discover through due diligence or the extent of which we underestimate prior to the acquisition. For example, to the extent that any business we acquire or any prior owners, employees, or agents of any acquired businesses or properties: (i) failed to comply with or otherwise violated applicable laws, rules, or regulations; (ii) failed to fulfill or disclose their obligations, contractual or otherwise, to applicable government authorities, their customers, suppliers, or others; or (iii) incurred environmental, tax, or other liabilities, we, as the successor owner, may be financially responsible for these violations and failures and may suffer harm to our reputation and otherwise be adversely affected. An acquired business may have problems with internal controls over financial reporting, which could be difficult for us to discover during our due diligence process and could in turn lead us to have significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our own internal controls over financial reporting. These and any other costs, liabilities, and disruptions associated with any of our past acquisitions and any future acquisitions could harm our operating results. 17 If the benefits of our various acquisitions do not meet the expectations of financial or industry analysts, the market price of our common stock may decline. The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of our acquisitions if: • we do not achieve the perceived benefits of the acquisitions as rapidly as, or to the extent anticipated by, financial or industry analysts; or • the effect of the acquisitions on our financial results is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts. Accordingly, investors may experience a loss as a result of a depressed stock price. Members of our board of directors may have conflicts of interest that could hinder our ability to make acquisitions. One of our growth strategies is to make selective acquisitions of complementary businesses. Two of our directors, Messrs. Jacks and Schulte, are principals of CM Equity Partners, a sponsor of private equity funds. Some of these funds are focused on investments in, among other things, businesses in the federal services sector. Messrs. Jacks and Schulte also serve on the boards of a number of CM Equity Partners portfolio companies and, with Dr. Bersoff, are members of the board of directors of ICF International, Inc., a diversified federal services business that grows in part through acquisitions. It is possible that CM Equity Partners and related funds and portfolio companies and ICF International, Inc. could be interested in acquiring businesses that we would also be interested in, and these relationships could hinder our ability to carry out our acquisition strategy. If third parties bring claims against us or if any of the entities we have acquired have breached any of their representations, warranties or covenants set forth in the acquisition agreement for each respective transaction, we may not be adequately indemnified for any losses that arise. Although the stock purchase and merger agreements governing our acquisitions generally provide that the selling party will indemnify us for losses arising from a breach of the representations, warranties and covenants by the selling party set forth in the stock purchase or merger agreement, such indemnification is limited, in general terms, to aggregate monetary amounts with deductibles. In addition, with some exceptions, the survival period for claims under the stock purchase and merger agreements are limited to specific periods of time. We will be prevented from seeking indemnification for most claims above the aggregate threshold or arising after the applicable survival period. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure Because we do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared nor paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, for use in the operations and expansion of our business. As a result, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination as to the declaration and payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on factors our board of directors deems relevant, including, among others, our results of operations, financial condition and cash requirements, business prospects, and the terms of our credit facilities and other financing arrangements. It is likely that the debt financing arrangements we put into place will prohibit us from declaring or paying dividends without the consent of our lenders. Accordingly, realization of a gain on stockholders’ investments will depend on the appreciation of the price of our common stock. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders purchased their shares. Our debt includes covenants that restrict our activities and create the risk of defaults, which could impair the value of our stock. Our debt financing arrangements contain a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to dispose of assets; incur additional indebtedness; make capital expenditures; pay dividends; create liens on assets; enter into leases, investments and acquisitions; engage in mergers and consolidations; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and otherwise restrict corporate activities (including change of control and asset sale transactions). In addition, our financing arrangements require us to maintain specified financial ratios and comply with financial tests, some of which may become more restrictive over time. The failure to fulfill the requirements of debt covenants, if not cured through performance or an amendment of the financing arrangements, could have the consequences of a default described in the risk factor below. There is no assurance that we will be able to fulfill our debt covenants, maintain these ratios, or comply with these financial tests in the future, nor is there any assurance that we will not be in default under our financial arrangements in the future. 18 A default under our debt could lead to a bankruptcy or other financial restructuring that would significantly adversely affect the value of our stock. In the event of a default under our financing arrangements, the lenders could, among other things, (i) declare all amounts borrowed to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, (ii) terminate their commitments to make further loans, and (iii) proceed against the collateral securing the obligations owed to them. Our senior debt is secured by substantially all of our assets. Defaults under additional indebtedness we incur in the future could have these and other effects. Any such default could have a significant adverse effect on the value of our stock. A default under our debt could lead to our bankruptcy, insolvency, financial restructuring or liquidation. In any such event, our stockholders would be entitled to share ratably in our assets available for distribution only after the payment in full to the holders of all of our debt and other liabilities. There can be no assurance that, in any such bankruptcy, insolvency, financial restructuring or liquidation, stockholders would receive any distribution whatsoever. Risks Associated with Sarbanes-Oxley Act Compliance Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with an established Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission internal control framework and to report on our conclusion as to the effectiveness of our internal controls. Although we believe the existing controls over financial reporting are designed and operating effectively, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain adequate internal controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new and improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 