Item 1A Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, in evaluating us and our business before making an investment decision regarding our securities. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The risks listed below are not the only risks that we face. Risks associated with our business Recent changes in U.S. and global economic conditions could have a continuing adverse effect on the profitability of some or all of our businesses. Recent concerns over declining consumer and business confidence, the availability and cost of credit, reduced consumer spending and business investment, the volatility and strength of the capital and credit markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our products is adversely affected. Adverse changes in the economy could negatively affect earnings and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. We cannot predict whether or when such circumstances may occur, or what impact, if any such circumstances could have on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. 10 Table of Contents Conditions in the global capital and credit markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Our results of operations and financial position could be materially affected by adverse changes in the global capital and credit markets and the economy generally, including recent declines in consumer and business confidence and spending, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption in recent months. In some cases, these markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit and increased the costs of credit when such credit is available. Conditions in the capital and credit markets and the effects of the declines in consumer and business confidence and spending may adversely impact the ability of our lenders, suppliers and customers to conduct their business activities. The consequences of such adverse effects could include the interruption of production at the facilities of our customers, the reduction, delay or cancellation of customer orders, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products, and bankruptcy of customers or other creditors. Moreover, the current worldwide financial crisis has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to fund or support the continuation and expansion of business operations worldwide as many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. While we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit our credit risk and avoid losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We rely on key customers. During the year ended December 31, 2008, our largest customer, Graphic Packaging, accounted for approximately 10.7% of consolidated net sales. This customer is in the unbleached kraft operating segment. A loss of this customer or other key customers could significantly impact our financial results. We are dependent upon key management executives whose loss may adversely impact our business. Our success depends significantly on the efforts and abilities of Roger W. Stone, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and Matthew Kaplan, President. The loss of services of one or both of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we depend on the expertise, experience and continued services of KPB's and CKD's management. The loss of such management, or an inability to attract or retain other key individuals, could materially adversely affect us. We seek to compensate management, as well as other employees, through competitive salaries, bonuses and other incentive plans, but there can be no assurance that these programs will allow us to retain key management executives or hire new key employees. KapStone's substantial indebtedness may adversely affect its financial health. As of December 31, 2008, KapStone had an aggregate principal amount of approximately $440 million of outstanding debt. As a result of the indebtedness, KapStone's ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes may be impaired in the future. The substantial debt could make us vulnerable to economic downturns and may hinder our ability to adjust to rapidly changing market conditions. A substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will be needed to meet the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. The business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable it to repay KapStone's indebtedness and to fund other liquidity needs, including capital expenditure requirements. The indebtedness incurred by KapStone under its senior secured 11 Table of Contents credit facility bears interest at variable rates, and therefore if interest rates increase, KapStone's debt service requirements will increase. In such case, KapStone may need to refinance or restructure all or a portion of its indebtedness on or before maturity. KapStone may not be able to refinance any of its indebtedness, including the senior secured credit facility, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If KapStone cannot service or refinance its indebtedness, it may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. KapStone's senior secured credit facility contains restrictive covenants that limit its liquidity and corporate activities. KapStone's credit facility imposes operating and financial restrictions that limit KapStone's ability to: •incur additional indebtedness; •create additional liens on its assets; •make investments; •engage in mergers or acquisitions; •pay dividends; and •sell all or any substantial part of assets In addition, the credit facility also imposes other restrictions on KapStone. Therefore, we will need to seek permission from the lenders in order to engage in certain corporate actions. The lender's interests may be different from ours, and no assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain the lender's permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest. The credit facility requires KapStone to maintain certain financial ratios. The failure to maintain the specified ratios could result in an event of default if not cured or waived. In the event of a default under KapStone's senior credit facility, the lenders generally would be able to declare all of such indebtedness, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable. In addition, borrowings under the credit facility are secured by a first priority lien on all assets of the Company and, in the event of a default under that facility the lenders generally would be entitled to seize the collateral. A default under any debt instrument, unless cured or waived, would likely have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. If we fail to extend or renegotiate the collective bargaining agreements with the United Steelworkers Union as they expire from time to time, or if our unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, our business and operating results could be materially harmed. Most of our hourly paid employees are represented by trade unions. The Company is a party to collective bargaining contracts which represent approximately 615 employees at the North Charleston locations, 381 employees at Roanoke Rapids and 136 employees at Ride Rite® Converting. No assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully extend or renegotiate the collective bargaining agreements as they expire from time to time. Currently, there are collective bargaining agreements in effect with respect to North Charleston through June 30, 2009, Roanoke Rapids through August 31, 2010, and with respect to Ride Rite® Converting through June 30, 2011. If we are unable to extend or negotiate new agreements without work stoppages, it could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products and adversely affect results of operations. 12 Table of Contents As a result of the CKD acquisition, our operations have become increasingly global in nature. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by the political and economic conditions of the countries in which we conduct business, by fluctuations in exchange rates and other factors related to our international operations. Approximately 32% of our annual revenues in 2008 were derived from export sales. As our international operations and activities expand, we face increasing exposure to the risks of selling to customers in foreign countries. These factors include: •Changes in foreign currency exchange rates which could adversely affect our competitive position, selling prices, and therefore the demand for our products in a particular market. •Trade protection measures in favor of local producers of competing products, including government subsidies, tax benefits, trade actions (such as anti-dumping proceedings) and other measures giving local producers a competitive advantage over the company. •Changes generally in political, regulatory or economic conditions in the countries in which we conduct business. These risks could affect the cost of selling our products, our pricing, sales volume, and ultimately our financial performance. The likelihood of such occurrences and their potential effect on the company vary from country to country and are unpredictable. If we fail to maintain effective systems for disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 in a timely manner. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test the effectiveness of its internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with an established internal control framework and to report on its conclusion as to the effectiveness of its internal controls. It also requires an independent registered public accounting firm to test our internal controls over financial reporting and report on the effectiveness of such controls for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2008 and subsequent years. It may cost us more than we expect to comply with these controls and procedure related requirements. If we discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement, we cannot be certain that any remedial measures taken will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate internal controls over financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. The Company may be required to record a charge to our earnings if our goodwill becomes impaired. The Company tests for impairment of goodwill annually at the beginning of the fourth quarter in accordance with generally accepted accounting standards. When events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value for such assets may not be recoverable, however, the Company reviews its goodwill for impairment on an interim basis. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances requiring our interim testing include a decline in stock price as compared to the Company's book value per share, future cash flows and slower growth rates. As a result of the dramatic change in the economic and market conditions in the fourth quarter of 2008, including the change in the Company's stock price as compared to its book value per share and the significant disruptions in the global credit markets, the Company performed an interim impairment test for goodwill as of the fiscal year end 2008. The Company did not record any impairment charge as a result of that interim test. However, in connection with future annual or interim tests, the Company may be required to record a non-cash charge to earnings in its financial statements during the period in which any impairment of goodwill is determined, resulting in an impact on the Company's results of operations. 13 Table of Contents See Note 2. "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Goodwill and Intangible Assets" in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to impairment of goodwill. Our business depends on effective information management systems. We rely on our enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems to support such critical business operations as processing sales orders and invoicing, inventory control, purchasing and supply chain management, payroll and human resources, and financial reporting. We periodically implement upgrades to such systems or migrate one or more of our affiliates, facilities or operations from one system to another. If we are unable to adequately maintain such systems to support our developing business requirements or effectively manage any upgrade or migration, we could encounter difficulties that could have a material adverse impact on our business, internal controls over financial reporting, financial results, or our ability to timely and accurately report such results. Risks Associated with KapStone's Common Stock and Warrants The market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. The market price of our common stock may be volatile due to certain factors, including, but not limited to; quarterly fluctuations in our financial and operating results; general conditions in the paper and packaging industries; or changes in earnings estimates. Shares available for future issuance, conversion and exercise could have an adverse effect on the earnings per share and the market price of our common stock. Any future issuance of equity securities, including upon exercise of outstanding warrants and stock options, could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common stock. As of February 28, 2009, we have outstanding warrants to purchase approximately 37 million shares of our common stock. In addition, in connection with our initial public offering, we issued to the representative of the underwriter an option to purchase 1,000,000 units which, if exercised, would result in the issuance of an additional 1,000,000 shares of common stock and 2,000,000 warrants. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. Subject to there being a current prospectus under the Securities Act of 1933 with respect to the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants issued as a part of the units in our initial public offering, during the entire period between any notice of redemption and the actual redemption date, we may redeem the warrants at any time after the warrants become exercisable, in whole and not in part, at a price of $.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $8.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before the notice of redemption is sent. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders (i) to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price therefore at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (ii) to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants, or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. 14 Table of Contents Although we currently have an effective registration statement covering the issuance of the shares underlying the warrants issued in our initial public offering at the time that the warrant holders exercise their warrants, we cannot guarantee that a registration statement will continue to be effective, in which case the warrant holders may not be able to exercise their warrants. Holders of the warrants issued in our initial public offering will be able to receive shares upon exercise of the warrants only if (i) a current registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 relating to the shares of common stock underlying the warrants is then effective and (ii) such shares are qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities laws of the states in which the various holders of warrants reside. Although we currently have a current registration statement covering the shares underlying the warrants to the extent required by federal securities laws, we cannot give assurance that we will be able to maintain the effectiveness of such registration statement. In addition, some states may not permit us to register the shares issuable upon exercise of our warrants for sale. Since we have no obligation to net cash settle the warrants in the absence of an effective registration statement, the value of the warrants will be greatly reduced if a registration statement covering the shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not kept current or if the securities are not qualified, or exempt from qualification, in the states in which the holders of warrants reside. Holders of warrants who reside in jurisdictions in which the shares underlying the warrants are not qualified and in which there is no exemption will be unable to exercise their warrants and would either have to sell their warrants in the open market or allow them to expire unexercised. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. In light of the foregoing, the warrants may expire worthless and a purchaser of units may have paid the full unit purchase price solely for the share component of the units. Our executive officers and directors control a substantial percentage of our common stock and warrants and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. At December 31, 2008, our executive officers and directors own 7.7 million shares of our common stock, or approximately 27% of our total issued and outstanding common stock and held warrants to purchase an additional 4.8 million shares of our common stock. The warrants expire August 15, 2009. Accordingly, our executive officers and directors may have considerable influence over the outcome of all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including future acquisitions and the election of directors. In addition, our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of two years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. At the annual meeting, as a consequence of our "staggered" board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our officers and directors, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Some of our executive officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Some of our executive officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities, including "blank check" companies, engaged in business activities similar to those conducted by us. Additionally, our executive officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities to which they have an affiliation. Accordingly, they may have conflicts as to questions pertaining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. 15 Table of Contents Risks associated with the paper, packaging, forest products and related industries. The paper, packaging, forest products and related industries are highly cyclical. Fluctuations in the prices of and the demand for products could result in smaller profit margins and lower sales volumes. Historically, economic and market shifts, fluctuations in capacity and changes in foreign currency exchange rates have created cyclical changes in prices, sales volume and margins for products in the paper, packaging, forest products and related industries. The length and magnitude of industry cycles have varied over time and by product, but generally reflect changes in macroeconomic conditions and levels of industry capacity. Most paper products and many wood products used in the packaging industry are commodities that are widely available from many producers. Because commodity products have few distinguishing qualities from producer to producer, competition for these products is based primarily on price, which is determined by supply relative to demand. The overall levels of demand for these commodity products reflect fluctuations in levels of end-user demand, which depend in large part on general macroeconomic conditions in North America and regional economic conditions in our markets, as well as foreign currency exchange rates. The foregoing factors could materially and adversely impact sales and profitability of our company. Difficulty obtaining wood fiber at favorable prices, or at all, may negatively impact companies in the packaging industry. Wood fiber is the principal raw material in many parts of the packaging industry. Wood fiber is a commodity, and prices historically have been cyclical. Environmental litigation and regulatory developments have caused, and may cause in the future, significant reductions in the amount of timber available for commercial harvest in the United States. These reductions have caused the closure of plywood and lumber operations in some of the geographic areas in which a target company might operate. In addition, future domestic or foreign legislation and litigation concerning the use of timberlands, the protection of endangered species, the promotion of forest health and the response to and prevention of catastrophic wildfires could also affect timber supplies. Availability of harvested timber may further be limited by fire, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, wind storms, flooding and other natural and man made causes, thereby reducing supply and increasing prices. Industry supply of commodity paper and wood products is also subject to fluctuation, as changing industry conditions can influence producers to idle or permanently close individual machines or entire mills. In addition, to avoid substantial cash costs in connection with idling or closing a mill, some producers will choose to continue to operate at a loss, sometimes even a cash loss, which could prolong weak pricing environments due to oversupply. Oversupply in these markets can also result from producers introducing new capacity in response to favorable short-term pricing trends. Industry supply of commodity papers and wood products is also influenced by overseas production capacity, which has grown in recent years and is expected to continue to grow. Wood fiber pricing is subject to regional market influences, and the cost of wood fiber may increase in particular regions due to market shifts in those regions. In addition, the ability to obtain wood fiber from foreign countries may be impacted by legal and political conditions in those countries as well as transportation difficulties. An increase in the cost of purchased energy and raw materials would lead to higher manufacturing costs, thereby reducing margins. Energy is a significant raw material in the paper, packaging, forest products and related industries. Energy prices, particularly for electricity, coal and fuel oil, have been volatile in recent years and currently coal and electricity exceed historical averages. These fluctuations have historically impacted manufacturing costs of companies in these industries, often contributing to earnings volatility. Recent significant increases in energy prices can be expected to adversely impact businesses in these industries. 16 Table of Contents In addition, we could be materially adversely impacted by supply disruptions or the inability to pass on cost increases to our customers. Paper, packaging and forest products companies face strong competition. The paper, packaging, forest products and related industries are highly fragmented, and we face competition from numerous competitors, domestic as well as foreign. Some of our competitors will be large, vertically integrated companies that have greater financial and other resources, greater manufacturing economies of scale, greater energy self-sufficiency and/or lower operating costs. Certain paper and wood products are vulnerable to long-term declines in demand due to competing technologies or materials. Companies in the paper, packaging, forest products and related industries are subject to possible declines in demand for their products as the use of alternative materials and technologies grows and the prices of such alternatives become more competitive. Any substantial shift in demand from wood and paper products to competing technologies or materials could result in a material decrease in sales of our products. While we would seek to adapt our product offerings to changes in market demand, we cannot assure you that any efforts will be successful or sufficient. Packaging companies are subject to significant environmental regulation and environmental compliance expenditures, as well as other potential environmental liabilities. Companies in the packaging industry are subject to a wide range of general and industry-specific environmental laws and regulations, particularly with respect to air emissions, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous waste management, site remediation, forestry operations and endangered species habitats. We may incur substantial expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could expose us to civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including orders limiting operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or other remedial actions. Risks Associated with Acquisitions Future acquisitions of businesses by us would subject us to additional business, operating and industry risks, the impact of which cannot presently be evaluated, and could adversely impact our capital structure. We intend to pursue other acquisition opportunities in an effort to diversify our investments and/or grow our business. Any business acquired by us may cause us to be affected by numerous risks inherent in the acquired business' operations. If we acquire a business in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry or target business, we cannot assure you that we will be able to properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. In addition, the financing of any acquisition completed by us could adversely impact our capital structure as any such financing would likely include the issuance of additional equity securities and/or the borrowing of additional funds. The issuance of additional equity securities may significantly reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and/or adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Increasing our indebtedness could increase the risk of a default that would entitle the holder to declare all of such indebtedness due and payable and/or to seize any collateral securing the indebtedness. In addition, default under one debt instrument could in turn permit lenders under other debt instruments to declare borrowings outstanding under those other instruments to be due and payable pursuant to cross default clauses. Accordingly, the financing of future acquisitions could adversely impact our capital structure and your equity interest in us. 17 Table of Contents Except as required by law or the rules of any securities exchange on which our securities might be listed at the time it seeks to consummate a subsequent acquisition, stockholders will not be asked to vote on any such proposed acquisition and no redemption rights in connection with any such acquisition will exist. If the benefits of our KPB and CKD acquisitions do not meet the expectations of the marketplace, or financial or industry analysts, the market price of our common stock may decline. We acquired KPB on January 2, 2007 and CKD on July 1, 2008. The market price of our common stock may decline if these acquisitions do not perform as expected, or we do not otherwise achieve the perceived benefits of the acquisitions as rapidly as, or to the extent anticipated by, the marketplace, or financial or industry analysts. Accordingly, investors may experience a loss as a result of a decreasing stock price and we may not be able to raise future capital, if necessary, in the equity markets. Our operations are dependent upon certain operating agreements with IP and MWV. We are dependent upon MWV to provide us transitional support services for a period of up to 18 months from July 1, 2008. In addition, we rely on MWV and IP for certain supply arrangements to provide us roundwood and woodchips. Although IP has agreed to indemnify us with respect to environmental liabilities that were assumed, we may incur significant remediation and other costs if such losses exceed the cap on indemnification or occur after the expiration of the indemnification period. The Roanoke Rapids facility operated as an industrial facility for many years prior to the enactment of environmental legislation that would have required certain pollution prevention concepts to be addressed at the facility. Due to its long history of industrial operations, the possibility of onsite and offsite environmental impact to the soil and groundwater may present a heightened risk of liability for contamination. The overall indemnification by IP for certain losses includes assumed environmental liabilities, subject to a $1.0 million threshold and a cap of $15.0 million. IP's indemnification for assumed environmental liabilities will survive for three years. However, with respect to environmental claims, the cap described above will be reduced by $1.8 million every six months during the three year survival period. Because we are unable to presently make a determination as to whether the environmental impact, if any, would be widespread or significant, the negotiated cap and survival period may not be sufficient to cover future losses. Further, if we are required to make significant expenditures for remediation and other costs that exceed the cap, the cost of such efforts may have a significant negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Although MWV has agreed to indemnify us with respect to environmental liabilities pertaining to the North Charleston facility, we may incur significant remediation and other costs if such losses are below the basket or exceed the cap on indemnification or occur after the expiration of the indemnification period. Due to its past history of industrial operations at the North Charleston mill, the possibility of onsite and offsite environmental impact on soil and groundwater may present a heightened risk of liability for contamination. We did not assume responsibility for certain offsite environmental liabilities resulting from conditions existing prior to the closing. The overall indemnification by MWV for certain losses includes assumed environmental liabilities, subject to an $8.5 million threshold and a cap equal to 15% of the purchase price of $485 million. MWV's obligation to indemnify us for any historical onsite liability or breach of certain environmental representations and warranties terminates on December 31, 2013. MWV's indemnification for certain offsite historical liabilities survive indefinitely. Because we are unable to presently make a determination as to whether the environmental impact, if any, would be widespread or significant, the negotiated cap and survival period may not be sufficient to cover future losses. Further if we are required to make significant expenditures for remediation and 18 Table of Contents other costs that exceed the cap, the costs of such efforts may have a significant negative impact on our results of operations and financial conditions. The anticipated benefits of the CKD acquisition may not be realized. We consummated the acquisition of CKD with the expectation that it would result in various benefits including, among other things, benefits relating to enhanced revenues, a broader array of product offerings, the expansion of our production capabilities, operational improvements and a diversification of our customer base. The acquisition presents challenges to management, including the integration of operations, properties and personnel of CKD and our existing operations. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the transaction is subject to a number of uncertainties, including, but not limited to, whether we can integrate our business and the CKD business in an efficient and effective manner. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time that could materially impact our business, financial condition and operating results. We may fail to realize the anticipated synergies and cost savings expected from the CKD acquisition. Our success after the CKD acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and cost savings from integrating our business with CKD. To realize these anticipated benefits, we must successfully integrate our business with CKD in a manner that permits these synergies to be realized. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, such anticipated benefits may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. We may have difficulty integrating our business with the CKD business and may incur substantial costs in connection with the integration. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition will depend on the successful integration of our products, operations, personnel, and facilities with those of CKD in a timely and efficient manner. Although we do not anticipate material difficulties in connection with such integration, the possibility exists that such difficulties could be experienced in connection with the transaction, especially given the relatively large size of the acquisition. The time and expense associated with integrating our businesses and CKD may exceed our expectations and limit or delay the intended benefits of the transaction. Similarly, the process of integrating sales and marketing forces and administrative functions and coordinating product offerings can take longer, cost more, and provide fewer benefits than initially projected. To the extent any of these events occurs, the benefits of the acquisition may be reduced. Integrating our business with CKD will be a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. Before the acquisition, KapStone and CKD operated independently, each with its own business, products, customers, employees, culture and systems. We may face substantial difficulties, costs and delays in integrating the two businesses. These difficulties, costs and delays may include: •Costs and delays in migrating CKD to our ERP system; •Charges to earnings resulting from start up costs; •Difficulty comparing financial reports due to differing financial and/or internal reporting systems; •Diversion of management resources from the business; •Challenges in retaining and integrating management and other key employees of KapStone and CKD; •Difficulties in coordinating infrastructure operations in an effective and efficient manner; and •The inability to achieve the synergies anticipated to be realized from the acquisition. 19 Table of Contents We may seek to combine certain operations and functions using common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resource practices, including training, professional development and benefit programs. We may be unsuccessful in implementing the integration of these systems and processes in a timely and efficient manner. Any one or all of these factors may cause increased operating costs, worse than anticipated financial performance and/or the loss of customers and employees. Many of these factors are also outside of our control. We may have difficulty integrating our system of internal control over financial reporting with that of CKD. The failure to integrate our system of internal control over financial reporting with that of CKD following the acquisition could affect adversely our ability to exercise effective internal control over financial reporting. A failure to exercise effective internal control over financial reporting could result in a material misstatement in our annual or interim consolidated financial statements. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 