D. Risk Factors Our business faces certain risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business. If any of the events or circumstances described as risks below or elsewhere in this report actually occurs, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Industry-Specific Risk Factors The cyclical nature of the international shipping industry may lead to volatile changes in charter rates and vessel values, which may reduce our revenues and net income. We are an independent shipping company that operates in the international dry bulk shipping market. Our profitability is dependent upon the charter rates we are able to charge. The supply of and demand for shipping capacity strongly influences charter rates. The demand for shipping capacity is determined primarily by the demand for the type of commodities carried, the distance that those commodities must be moved by sea, and the demand for vessels of a particular size. The demand for commodities is affected by, among other things, world and regional economic and political conditions (including developments in international trade, fluctuations in industrial and agricultural production and armed conflicts), environmental concerns, weather patterns, port congestion, and changes in seaborne and other transportation costs. The size of the existing fleet per size category (i.e., Handysize, Handymax, Panamax or Capesize) in any particular dry bulk market, the number of new vessel deliveries, the scrapping of older vessels and the number of vessels out of active service (i.e., laid-up, dry-docked, awaiting repairs or otherwise not available for hire), determines the supply of shipping capacity, which is measured by the amount of suitable tonnage available to carry cargo. In addition to the prevailing and anticipated charter rates, factors that affect the supply and demand for shipping capacity include the rate of newbuilding, scrapping and laying-up, newbuilding prices, secondhand vessel values in relation to scrap prices, costs of bunkers and other operating costs, costs associated with classification society surveys, normal maintenance and insurance coverage, the efficiency and age profile of the existing fleet in the market, and government and industry regulation of maritime transportation practices, particularly environmental protection laws and regulations. These factors are outside of our control, and we cannot predict the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions. Some of these factors may have a negative impact on our revenues and net income. 2 Table of Contents The market value of our vessels can fluctuate significantly. The market value of our vessels may increase or decrease depending on the following factors: • economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry in general; • supply of dry bulk vessels, including secondhand vessels; • demand for dry bulk vessels; • types and sizes of vessels; • other modes of transportation; • cost of newbuildings; • new regulatory requirements from governments or self-regulated organizations; and • prevailing level of charter rates. Because the market value of our vessels may fluctuate significantly, we may incur losses when we sell vessels, which may adversely affect our earnings. In addition, any determination that a vessel’s remaining useful life and earnings requires an impairment of its value on our financial statements could result in a charge against our earnings and a reduction in our shareholders’ equity. If for any reason we sell our vessels at a time when prices have fallen, the sale may be less than that vessel’s carrying amount on our financial statements, and we would incur a loss and a reduction in earnings. Disruptions in world financial markets and in the international charter market could have a material adverse impact on our ability to obtain financing, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The United States and other countries are experiencing deteriorating economic trends and have entered into a recession. For example, the credit markets worldwide and in the United States have experienced significant contraction, de-leveraging and reduced liquidity, and the United States government and foreign governments have either implemented or are considering a broad variety of governmental action and/or new regulation of the financial markets. Securities and futures markets and the credit markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The uncertainty surrounding the future of the global credit markets has resulted in reduced access to credit worldwide and inability of many parties to obtain trade finance, including letters of credit, which, in turn has adversely affected dry bulk charter rates. We face risks attendant to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates, and instability in certain securities markets, among other factors. Major market disruptions and the current adverse changes in global market conditions, and the economic climate in the United States and worldwide, may adversely affect our business or impair our ability to borrow amounts under our credit facilities or any future financial arrangements. The current market conditions may last longer than we anticipate. These recent and developing economic and governmental factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows and could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly. The recession currently occurring worldwide has resulted in fewer imports to industrialized nations from Asia, which in turn has resulted in fewer requirements for imports of raw materials from the Asia, and in particular China. This trend has coincided with the credit crisis, which has made the availability of trade credit scarce; documentary letters of credit were largely unavailable in the last quarter of 2008. At the same time, the extreme volatility of commodity prices has substantially increased the risk of physical commodity traders, who have reduced the volume of their trades. The volatility of commodity prices, resulting in particular in a dramatic fall of spot iron ore prices, has shifted the negotiating balance of power in favor of China, the largest iron ore importing country, against iron ore producers based in Brazil and Australia, and has led China to centrally implement a suspension of iron ore imports in order to have more ample negotiating leverage for the conclusion of its longer-term contract prices for iron ore imports. 3 Table of Contents The combination of all the above factors has caused the volume of seaborne trade to drop dramatically and charter rates to plummet. These conditions may last longer than expected and may continue to adversely affect our results of operations. Charter hire rates for dry bulk vessels have decreased significantly and may remain at low rates or further decrease in the future, which may adversely affect our earnings. The dry bulk shipping industry is cyclical with volatility in charter hire rates and profitability. The degree of charter hire rate volatility among different types of dry bulk vessels has varied widely. Since the middle of the third quarter of 2008, charter hire rates for dry bulk vessels have decreased very substantially, and although charter rates have recovered from their lows, they may remain volatile for the foreseeable future. We anticipate that the future demand for our dry bulk vessels will be dependent upon existing conditions in the world’s economies, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the global dry bulk fleet and the sources and supply of dry bulk cargo to be transported by sea. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a further material adverse effect on dry bulk shipping in general and on our business and operating results in particular. Our ability to re-charter our dry bulk vessels upon the expiration or termination of their current time charter, the charter rates payable under any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, the current state of the dry bulk shipping market. If the dry bulk shipping market is in a period of depression when our vessels’ charters expire, it is likely that we may be forced to re-charter them at reduced rates, including rates whereby we incur a loss, which may reduce our earnings or make our earnings volatile. In addition, because the market value of our vessels may fluctuate significantly, we may incur losses when we sell vessels, which may adversely affect our earnings. If we sell vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our financial statements, the sale may be at less than the vessel’s carrying amount on our financial statements, resulting in a loss and a reduction in earnings. An economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We anticipate a significant number of the port calls made by our vessels will involve the loading or discharging of dry bulk commodities in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, negative change in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, but particularly in China, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. In recent years, China has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, which has had a significant impact on shipping demand. Through the end of the third quarter of 2008, China’s gross domestic product was approximately 2.3% lower than it was during the same period in 2007, and it is likely that China and other countries in the Asia Pacific region will continue to experience slowed or even negative economic growth in the near future. Moreover, the current economic slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union and Asian countries may further adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our business, financial position, results of operations, ability to pay dividends as well as our future prospects, would be materially and adversely affected by a long-lasting or significant economic downturn in any of these countries. 4 Table of Contents Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the government to regulate its economy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in such respects as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation and balance of payments position. Prior to 1978, the Chinese economy was a planned economy. Since 1978, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a “market economy” and enterprise reform. Although limited price reforms were undertaken, with the result that prices for certain commodities are principally determined by market forces, many of the reforms are experimental and may be subject to change or abolition. We cannot assure you that the Chinese government will continue to pursue a policy of economic reform. The level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws, regulations or export and import restrictions, all of which could, adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Turbulence in the financial services markets and the tightening of credit may affect the ability of purchasers of dry bulk cargo to obtain letters of credit to purchase dry bulk goods, resulting in declines in the demand for vessels. Turbulence in the credit markets has led many lenders to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide credit, including letters of credit, to borrowers. Purchasers of dry bulk cargo typically pay for cargo with letters of credit. The tightening of the credit markets has reduced the issuance of letters of credit and as a result decreased the amount of cargo being shipped as sellers determine not to sell cargo without a letter of credit. Reductions in cargo results in less business for charterers and declines in the demand for vessels. Any material decrease in the demand for vessels may decrease charter rates and make it more difficult for the Company to charter its vessels in the future at competitive rates. Reduced charter rates would reduce the Company’s revenues. If the recent volatility in LIBOR rates continues, it could affect our profitability, earnings and cash flow. LIBOR rates have recently been volatile, with the spread between those rates and prime lending rates widening significantly at times. These conditions are the result of the recent disruptions in the international credit markets. Because the interest rates borne by our outstanding indebtedness fluctuate with changes in the LIBOR rates, if this volatility were to continue, it would affect the amount of interest payable on our debt, which in turn, would have an effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. Charter rates are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may adversely affect our operating results. Our fleet consists of Handysize and Handymax dry bulk carriers that operate in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results. The energy markets primarily affect the demand for coal, with increases during hot summer periods when air conditioning and refrigeration require more electricity and towards the end of the calendar year in anticipation of the forthcoming winter period. Grain shipments are driven by the harvest within a climate zone. Because three of the five largest grain producers (the United States, Canada and the European Union) are located in the northern hemisphere and the other two (Argentina and Australia) are located in the southern hemisphere, harvests occur throughout the year and grains require dry bulk shipping accordingly. As a result of these and other factors, the dry bulk shipping industry is typically stronger in the fall and winter months. Therefore, we expect our revenues from our dry bulk carriers to be typically weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30 and, conversely, we expect our revenues from our dry bulk carriers to be typically stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. Seasonality in the dry bulk industry could materially affect our operating results. 5 Table of Contents The operation of dry bulk carriers has certain unique operational risks. The operation of certain vessel types, such as dry bulk carriers, has certain unique risks. With a dry bulk carrier, the cargo itself and its interaction with the ship can be a risk factor. By their nature, dry bulk cargoes are often heavy, dense, easily shifted, and react badly to water exposure. In addition, dry bulk carriers are often subjected to battering treatment during unloading operations with grabs, jackhammers (to pry encrusted cargoes out of the hold), and small bulldozers. This treatment may cause damage to the vessel. Vessels damaged due to treatment during unloading procedures may be more susceptible to breach to the sea. Hull breaches in dry bulk carriers may lead to the flooding of the vessels’ holds. If a dry bulk carrier suffers flooding in its forward holds, the bulk cargo may become so dense and waterlogged that its pressure may buckle the vessel’s bulkheads leading to the loss of a vessel. If we are unable to adequately maintain our vessels we may be unable to prevent these events. Any of these circumstances or events could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. In addition, the loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. We are subject to regulation and liability under environmental laws that could require significant expenditures and reduce our cash flows and net income. Our business and the operation of our vessels are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions and national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which the vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. We are also required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our operations. Because such conventions, laws, regulations and permit requirements are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with such conventions, laws, regulations or permit requirements, or the impact thereof on the resale prices or useful lives of our vessels. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted that could limit our ability to do business and thereby reduce our revenue or increase our cost of doing business, thereby materially decreasing our net income. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the International Safety Management, or ISM, Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive “Safety Management System.” The system includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject such party to increased liability, may decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels, and/or may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. Currently, Lloyd’s Register of Shipping has awarded ISM and International Ship and Port Facilities Security, or ISPS, certification to all of our vessels and to Free Bulkers, our ship management company. There can be no assurance, however, that such certification will be maintained indefinitely. The European Union is considering legislation that will affect the operation of vessels and the liability of owners for oil pollution. It is difficult to predict what legislation, if any, may be promulgated by the European Union or any other country or authority. We currently maintain, for each of our vessels, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes pollution liability coverage, in the amount of one billion dollars per incident. If the damages from a catastrophic incident exceeded our insurance coverage, the payment of these damages may materially decrease our net income. The International Maritime Organization, or IMO, or other regulatory bodies may adopt further regulations in the future that could adversely affect the useful lives of our vessels as well as our ability to generate income from them. These requirements can also affect the resale value of our vessels. The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, established an extensive regulatory and liability regime for the protection and clean-up of the environment from oil spills. OPA affects all owners and operators whose vessels trade in the United States of America or any of its territories and possessions or whose vessels operate in waters of the United States of America, which includes the territorial sea of the United States of America and its 200 nautical mile exclusive economic zone. 6 Table of Contents Under OPA, vessel owners, operators and bareboat charterers are “responsible parties” and are jointly, severally and strictly liable (unless the spill results solely from the act or omission of a third party, an act of God or an act of war) for all containment and clean-up costs and other damages arising from discharges or threatened discharges of oil from their vessels, including bunkers (fuel). If any of our vessels fail to maintain their class certification and/or fail any annual survey, intermediate survey, dry-docking or special survey, that vessel would be unable to carry cargo, thereby reducing our revenues and profitability and violating certain loan covenants of our third-party indebtedness. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention, or SOLAS. Our vessels are currently classed with Lloyd’s Register of Shipping, Korean Register of Shipping, Nippon Kaiji Kyokai, Germanischer Lloyd and Bureau Veritas. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys, dry-dockings and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel’s machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Our vessels are on special survey cycles for hull inspection and continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection. Every vessel is also required to be dry-docked every two to three years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. If any vessel does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey, dry-docking or special survey, the vessel will be unable to carry cargo between ports and will be unemployable and uninsurable, thereby reducing our revenues and profitability. That could also cause us to be in violation of certain covenants in our loan agreements. In addition, the cost of maintaining our vessels’ classifications may be substantial at times and could result in reduced revenues. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arresting or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of funds to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner or managed by the same manager. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one of our vessels for claims relating to another of our vessels or a vessel managed by our manager. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings. A government could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner. A government could also requisition our vessels for hire, which occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels could reduce our revenues and net income. 7 Table of Contents World events outside our control such as terrorism and international and regional hostilities may negatively affect our ability to operate, thereby reducing our revenues and net income or our ability to obtain additional financing, thereby restricting the implementation of our business strategy. Terrorist attacks such as those in New York on September 11, 2001, the bombings in Spain on March 11, 2004 and in London on July 7, 2005, and the continuing response of the United States and other countries to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere continue to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets and may adversely affect our business and operating results by increasing security costs and creating delays because of heightened security measures. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Terrorist attacks and international and regional hostilities may also negatively impact our vessels or our customers directly. The continuing conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to economic instability and could result in increased volatility of the financial markets in the United States of America and globally, an economic recession in the United States of America or the world and a corresponding reduction in our business and future prospects. Any of these occurrences could prevent us from obtaining additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all and have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenues and costs which would impair our implementation of our business strategy. Risks involved with operating ocean-going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which may reduce our revenues. The operation of an ocean-going vessel has inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: • crew strikes and/or boycotts; • marine disaster; • piracy; • environmental accidents; • cargo and property losses or damage; and • business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions. The involvement of any of our vessels in an environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel operator. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues. Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our profits. The cost of fuel is a significant factor in negotiating charter rates. As a result, an increase in the price of fuel beyond our expectations may adversely affect our profitability. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geo-political developments, supply and demand for oil, actions by members of OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns and regulations. 8 Table of Contents Our vessels may suffer damage and we may face unexpected dry-docking costs, which could affect our cash flow and financial condition. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a dry-docking facility, resulting in vessel downtime. The costs of dry-dock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to pay dry-docking costs that our insurance does not cover. The inactivity of these vessels while they are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. In addition, space at dry-docking facilities is sometimes limited and not all dry-docking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable dry-docking facility or we may be forced to move to a dry-docking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels’ positions. The loss of earnings while our vessels are forced to wait for space or to relocate to dry-docking facilities that are farther away from the routes on which our vessels trade would also decrease our earnings. Company-Specific Risk Factors The downturn in the dry bulk carrier charter market may have an adverse effect on our earnings, affect compliance with our loan covenants, and require us to raise additional capital in order to remain compliant with our loan covenants. The Baltic Dry Index, or BDI, a daily average of charter rates in 26 shipping routes measured on a time charter and voyage basis and covering dry bulk carriers, has fallen over 90% since May 2008 and over 70% in October 2008 alone. In December 2008, the BDI reached an all time low since 1986, yet by the end of January 2009 the BDI had recovered from its lows by approximately 40%. The decline in charter rates is due to various factors, including the lack of trade financing for purchases of commodities carried by sea, which has resulted in a significant decline in cargo shipments, and the excess supply of iron ore in China which has resulted in falling iron ore prices and increased stockpiles in Chinese ports. The decline in charter rates in the dry bulk market also affects the value of our dry bulk vessels, which follow the trends of dry bulk charter rates, and earnings on our charters, and similarly, affects our cash flows, liquidity and compliance with the covenants contained in our loan agreements. We have received waivers from each of our lenders with respect to the breach of any loan covenants. If the current low charter rates in the dry bulk market continue beyond the periods covered by such waivers, however, our earnings will be adversely affected and there is a probability we will not be in compliance with the financial covenants in our various loan agreements. There can be no assurances our lenders will be willing to provide further waivers of covenant compliance or modifications to our covenants. In such a situation, in order to remain viable, we would have to continue to withhold payment of dividends, sell vessels in our fleet and/or seek to raise additional capital in the equity markets. If we are able to raise additional capital at a time when the charter rates in the dry bulk charter market are low, our shareholders could be significantly diluted and our earnings per share could be adversely affected. Even if we are able to raise additional capital in the equity markets, there is no assurance we will remain compliant with our loan covenants or receive any required waivers. Our charterers may terminate or default on their charters, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. We have secured 53% of our available days in 2009 through time charters, which represents approximately $45,000,000 in gross revenue. However, the ability of each of our charterers to perform its obligations under a charter will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control. These factors may include general economic conditions, the condition of the dry bulk shipping industry, the charter rates received for specific types of vessels, hedging arrangements, the ability of charterers to obtain letters of credit from its customers, cash reserves, cash flow considerations and various operating expenses. The costs and delays associated with the termination of a charter or the default by a charterer of a vessel may be considerable and may adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We cannot predict whether our charterers will, upon the expiration of their charters, recharter our vessels on favorable terms or at all. If our charterers decide not to recharter our vessels, we may not be able to recharter them on terms similar to the terms of our current charters or at all. If we receive lower charter rates under replacement charters or are unable to recharter all of our vessels, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents If we receive lower charter rates under replacement charters or are unable to recharter all of our vessels, the amounts available if any, to service debt and/or to pay dividends to our shareholders may be significantly reduced or eliminated. The current low dry bulk charter rates and dry bulk vessel values and any future declines in these rates and values will affect our ability to comply with various covenants in our loan agreements. Our loan agreements require that we remain in compliance with certain financial and other covenants. The current low dry bulk charter rates and dry bulk vessel values have adversely affected our ability to comply with these covenants. Noncompliance with these covenants constitutes an event of default under our credit facilities, which would, unless waived by our lenders, provide our lenders with various remedies, including the right to require us to post additional collateral, enhance our equity and liquidity, increase our interest payments, pay down our indebtedness to a level where we are in compliance with our loan covenants, sell vessels in our fleet, reclassify our indebtedness as current liabilities, accelerate our indebtedness, and foreclose our lenders’ liens on our vessels. The exercise of any of the remedies could materially adversely impair our ability to continue to conduct our business. In addition, if the fair value of our vessels deteriorates significantly from their current levels, we may have to record an impairment adjustment to our financial statements, which would adversely affect our financial results and further hinder our ability to raise capital. Moreover, our lenders may require the payment of additional fees, require prepayment of a portion of our indebtedness to them, accelerate the amortization schedule for our indebtedness and increase the interest rates they charge us on our outstanding indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, we were not in full compliance with certain loan covenants but obtained the waivers from each of our lenders. There can be no assurances, however, that once such waivers expire our lenders will grant us any such waivers in the future if at the time of such expiration we are still not in compliance with certain loan covenants. Our earnings may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our vessels. We intend to continue to employ our vessels in fixed-rate period charters and spot charters. If our vessels become available for employment in the spot market or under new period charters during periods when charter rates have fallen, as occurred during the first part of 2008, we employed, and may have to continue to employ, our vessels at depressed charter rates that lead, and would continue to lead, to reduced or volatile earnings. We cannot assure you that future charter rates will be at a level that will enable us to operate our vessels profitably or to repay our debt. We previously relied on spot charters and may spot charter certain of our vessels in the future. The rates on spot charters are very competitive and volatile, which can result in decreased revenues if spot charter rates decline. Our vessels have previously been spot chartered, which made our historical revenues subject to greater fluctuation. In the future, we may continue to spot charter certain of our vessels. The spot charter market is highly competitive and rates within this market are subject to volatile fluctuations, while longer-term period time charters provide income at pre-determined rates over more extended periods of time. If we decide to continue to spot charter certain of our vessels, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in keeping those vessels fully employed in these short-term markets or that future spot rates will be sufficient to enable those vessels to be operated profitably. 10 Table of Contents A decline in the market value of our vessels could lead to a default under our loan agreements and the loss of our vessels. We have incurred secured debt under loan agreements for all of our vessels. If the market value of our fleet declines, we may not be in compliance with certain covenants of our existing loan agreements that relate to maintenance of asset values and, as a result, we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing. We have received waivers from our lenders with respect to certain covenants. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — Loans for Vessels — Loan Agreement Covenants and Waivers.” There can be no assurances, however, that once such waivers expire, that we will be in compliance with the financial covenants or that our lenders will extend such waivers. Our loan agreements contain covenants that may limit our liquidity and corporate activities. Our loan agreements impose operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens on our assets; • sell capital stock of our subsidiaries; • make investments; • engage in mergers or acquisitions; • pay dividends; • make capital expenditures; and • change the management of our vessels or terminate or materially amend the management agreements and sell our vessels. In addition, our credit facilities contain a number of financial covenants and general covenants that require us to, among other things, maintain minimum vessel values, minimum cash balances on deposit, minimum working capital and adequate insurance. Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to undertake certain corporate actions. Our lenders’ interests may be different from ours, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders’ permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest. Servicing debt may limit funds available for other purposes and inability to service debt may lead to acceleration of debt and foreclosure on our fleet. To finance our fleet, we incurred secured debt under various loan agreements. As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding an aggregate of $160.35 million in debt. We will be required to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest on our debt. These requirements will increase as we draw additional funds available for the acquisition of new vessels. These payments will limit funds otherwise available for working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes. We will need to incur additional indebtedness as we further expand our fleet, which would increase our ratio of debt to equity. The need to service our debt may limit funds available for other purposes, including distributing cash to our shareholders, and our inability to service debt could lead to acceleration of our debt and foreclosure on our fleet. 11 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we will pay dividends. There can be no assurance that we will be able to pay dividends. Although in 2008 we paid quarterly cash dividends to our shareholders of $0.175 per share in February and May, $0.20 per share in August and $0.075 per share in November, in the first quarter of 2009, our Board modified our dividend policy so that we would pay quarterly cash dividends equal to 50% of our distributable cash flow, which is our cash from operations during the previous quarter after expenses and reserves for scheduled dry-dockings, intermediate and special surveys and other purposes, including possible acquisitions, as our board of directors may determine from time to time are required, and after taking into account any other cash needs. In light of the current economic conditions, the Board determined that no cash dividend would be paid in February 2009. Further, the waiver we have received from FBB restricts our ability to pay dividends during the waiver period, which ends January 1, 2010. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — Loans for Vessels — Loan Agreement Covenants and Waivers.” Therefore, there can be no assurances that, if we were to determine to resume paying cash dividends, FBB would provide any required consent. In addition, even if we were to receive consent to the payment of dividends, in light of the current worldwide economic conditions, there can be no assurances that we will be able to resume payment of dividends. If we fail to manage our planned growth properly, we may not be able to successfully expand our market share. We intend to continue to grow our fleet. Our growth will depend on: • locating and acquiring suitable vessels; • identifying and consummating acquisitions or joint ventures; • integrating any acquired vessel successfully with our existing operations; • enhancing our customer base; • managing our expansion; and • obtaining the required financing. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks, such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations and difficulty experienced in (1) obtaining additional qualified personnel, (2) managing relationships with customers and suppliers and (3) integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures. We cannot give any assurance that we will be successful in executing our growth plans or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with the execution of those growth plans. We depend entirely on Free Bulkers and Safbulk to manage and charter our fleet. We currently have no employees and contract all of our financial, accounting, including our financial reporting and internal controls, and other back-office services, and the management of our fleet, including crewing, maintenance and repair, to Free Bulkers, an affiliated company. Free Bulkers has entered into a sub-management agreement with Safbulk, a company controlled by the Restis family, for the commercial management of our fleet, including negotiating and obtaining charters, relations with charter brokers and performance of post-charter activities. We are dependent upon Free Bulkers for technical management of our fleet and upon Safbulk for our ability to attract charterers and charter brokers. The loss of either of their services or their failure to perform their obligations could reduce our revenues and net income and adversely affect our operations and business. Generally, Free Bulkers is not liable to us for any losses or damages, if any, that may result from its management of our fleet unless Free Bulkers or its employees act with negligence or gross negligence or commit a willful default with respect to one of our vessels. Pursuant to its agreement with us, Free Bulkers’ liability for such acts, except in certain limited circumstances, may not exceed ten times the annual management fee payable by the applicable subsidiary to Free Bulkers. Although we may have rights against Free Bulkers, if Free Bulkers defaults on its obligations to us, you may have no recourse against Free Bulkers. In addition, if Safbulk defaults on its obligations to Free Bulkers, we may have no recourse against Safbulk. Further, we expect that we will need approval from our lenders if we intend to replace Free Bulkers as our fleet manager. 12 Table of Contents If Free Bulkers is unable to perform under its vessel management agreements with us, our results of operations may be adversely affected. As we expand our fleet, we will rely on Free Bulkers to recruit suitable additional seafarers and to meet other demands imposed on Free Bulkers. We cannot assure you that Free Bulkers will be able to meet these demands as we expand our fleet. If Free Bulkers’ crewing agents encounter business or financial difficulties, they may not be able to adequately staff our vessels. If Free Bulkers is unable to provide the commercial and technical management service for our vessels, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position and our ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected. We, and one of our executive officers, have affiliations with Free Bulkers that could create conflicts of interest detrimental to us. Our chairman, chief executive officer and president, Ion G. Varouxakis, is also the controlling shareholder and officer of Free Bulkers, which is our ship management company. These dual responsibilities of our officer and the relationships between the two companies could create conflicts of interest between Free Bulkers and us. Each of our operating subsidiaries has a nonexclusive management agreement with Free Bulkers. Free Bulkers has subcontracted the charter and post-charter management of our fleet to Safbulk, which is controlled by FS Holdings Limited, one of our principal shareholders. Although Free Bulkers currently serves as manager for vessels owned by us, neither Free Bulkers nor Safbulk is restricted from entering into management agreements with other competing shipping companies, and Safbulk provides management services to other international shipping companies, including the Restis group, which owns and operates vessels in the dry bulk sector. Free Bulkers or Safbulk could also allocate charter and/or vessel purchase and sale opportunities to others. There can be no assurance that Free Bulkers or Safbulk would resolve any conflicts of interest in a manner beneficial to us. Operational or financial problems experienced by Free Bulkers, our affiliate, may adversely impact us. The ability of Free Bulkers to continue providing services for us will depend in part on Free Bulkers’ own financial strength. Circumstances beyond our control could impair Free Bulkers’ financial strength and, as a result, Free Bulkers’ ability to fulfill its obligations to us which could have a material adverse effect on us. If Free Bulkers is unable to recruit suitable seafarers for our fleet or as we expand our fleet, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We will rely on Free Bulkers to recruit suitable senior officers and crews as we expand our fleet. In addition, as we expand our fleet, we will have to rely on Free Bulkers to recruit suitable additional seafarers. We cannot assure you that Free Bulkers will be able to continue to hire suitable employees as we expand our fleet. If Free Bulkers’ crewing agents encounter business or financial difficulties, they may not be able to adequately staff our vessels. We expect that all or part of the seafarers who will be employed on the ships in our fleet will be covered by industry-wide collective bargaining agreements that set basic standards. We cannot assure you that these agreements will prevent labor interruptions. If Free Bulkers is unable to recruit suitable seafarers as we expand our fleet, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends may be materially adversely affected. Because our seafaring employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, failure of industry groups to renew those agreements may disrupt our operations and adversely affect our earnings. All of the seafarers employed on the vessels in our fleet are covered by collective bargaining agreements that set basic standards. We cannot assure you that these agreements will prevent labor interruptions. Any labor interruptions could disrupt our operations and harm our financial performance. 13 Table of Contents Increases in interest rates would reduce funds available to purchase vessels and service debt. We have purchased, and may purchase in the future, vessels with loans that provide for periodic interest payments based on indices that fluctuate with changes in market interest rates. If interest rates increase significantly, it would increase our costs of financing our acquisition of vessels, which could decrease the number of additional vessels that we could acquire and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and may adversely affect our ability to service debt. The performance of our existing charters and the creditworthiness of our charterers may hinder our ability to implement our business strategy by making additional debt financing unavailable or available only at higher than anticipated cost. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional debt financing that we will require to acquire additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such financing. Our inability to obtain additional financing at all, or at a higher than anticipated cost, may materially impair our ability to implement our business strategy. We are a holding company, and we will depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations or to make dividend payments. We are a holding company and our subsidiaries, which are all wholly owned by us, conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our wholly owned subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make dividend payments depends on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, our Board of Directors may exercise its discretion not to pay dividends. We and our subsidiaries will be permitted to pay dividends only for so long as we are in compliance with all applicable financial covenants, terms and conditions of our debt. In addition, we and our subsidiaries are subject to limitations on the payment of dividends under Marshall Islands laws discussed above. As we expand our business, we will need to upgrade our operational and financial systems, and add more staff. If we cannot upgrade these systems or recruit suitable additional employees, our performance may suffer. Our current operating and financial systems may not be adequate if we significantly expand the size of our fleet, and our attempt to improve those systems may be ineffective. In addition, if we significantly expand our fleet, we will have to rely on Free Bulkers to recruit additional shoreside administrative and management personnel. We cannot assure you that Free Bulkers will be able to continue to hire suitable additional employees as we expand our fleet. If we cannot upgrade our operational and financial systems effectively or recruit suitable additional employees our performance may suffer and our ability to expand our business further will be restricted. We are required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to evaluate our controls, which evaluation requires substantial resources. If these evaluations result in the identification of material weaknesses, we may be adversely affected until these weaknesses can be corrected. We are required to comply with a variety of laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (which we refer to as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act), SEC regulations and the NASDAQ Stock Market rules. In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control systems, and attestations as to the effectiveness of these systems by our independent public accounting firm. Our internal controls and procedures are tested on an annual basis. During the course of our annual testing, deficiencies may be identified that we may not be able to remediate to meet the deadline imposed for filing our annual reports. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In addition, if we fail to correct any deficiencies we identify, we may not obtain an unqualified attestation report from our independent public accounting firm, which will be required for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 and each fiscal year thereafter. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment or obtain an unqualified report could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 14 Table of Contents We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may reduce the effectiveness of our management and lower our results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our existing management team. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Our success will depend on retaining key members of our management team. Difficulty in hiring and retaining personnel could adversely affect our results of operations and ability to pay dividends. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance on any of our officers. Our vessels may suffer damage and may face unexpected dry-docking costs, which could reduce our cash flow and impair our financial condition. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a dry-docking facility. The costs of dry-dock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to pay dry-docking costs that our insurance does not cover. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and reconditioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. Purchasing and operating previously owned, or secondhand, vessels may result in increased operating costs and vessels off-hire, which could adversely affect our earnings. Although we inspect the secondhand vessels that we acquire prior to purchase, this inspection does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition and cost of any required (or anticipated) repairs that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Generally, we do not receive the benefit of warranties on secondhand vessels. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. The average age of our dry bulk carriers is currently approximately 13.72 years. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations or safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which the vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. If we sell vessels, it is not certain that the price for which we sell them will equal their carrying amount at that time. Unless we set aside reserves or are able to borrow funds for vessel replacement, at the end of a vessel’s useful life our revenue will decline, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Unless we maintain reserves or are able to borrow or raise funds for vessel replacement, we may be unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives, which we expect to range from 25 years to 30 years, depending on the type of vessel. Our cash flows and income are dependent on the revenues earned by the chartering of our vessels to customers. If we are unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives, our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay dividends will be materially and adversely affected. Any reserves set aside for vessel replacement may not be available for dividends. 15 Table of Contents Because we will generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but will incur a portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We will generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars, but we expect that portions of our future expenses will be incurred in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. This difference could lead to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the dollar relative to the other currencies, in particular the Euro. Expenses incurred in foreign currencies against which the dollar falls in value can increase, decreasing net income. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the fluctuation of the value of the dollar against the foreign currencies resulted in an impact of $49,000. Further declines in the value of the dollar could lead to higher expenses payable by us. Investment in derivative instruments such as freight forward agreements could result in losses. From time to time in the future, we may take positions in derivative instruments including freight forward agreements, or FFAs. FFAs and other derivative instruments may be used to hedge a vessel owner’s exposure to the charter market by providing for the sale of a contracted charter rate along a specified route and period of time. Upon settlement, if the contracted charter rate is less than the average of the rates, as reported by an identified index, for the specified route and time period, the seller of the FFA is required to pay the buyer an amount equal to the difference between the contracted rate and the settlement rate, multiplied by the number of days in the specified period. Conversely, if the contracted rate is greater than the settlement rate, the buyer is required to pay the seller the settlement sum. If we take positions in FFAs or other derivative instruments and do not correctly anticipate charter rate movements over the specified route and time period, we could suffer losses in the settling or termination of the FFA. This could adversely affect our results of operation and cash flow. As of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, there were no freight forward agreements outstanding. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us adequately for damage to, or loss of, our vessels. We procure hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes environmental damage and pollution insurance and war risk insurance for our fleet. We currently maintain insurance against loss of hire for seven of our vessels, which covers business interruptions that result in the loss of use of a vessel. We can give no assurance that we are adequately insured against all other risks. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our fleet in the future. Our insurance policies contain deductibles for which we will be responsible and limitations and exclusions which may increase our costs. Moreover, we cannot assure that the insurers will not default on any claims they are required to pay. If our insurance is not enough to cover claims that may arise, we may not be able to repair any damage to our vessels or replace any vessel that is lost or may have to use our own funds for those purposes, thereby reducing our funds available to implement our business strategy. We may have to pay tax on United States source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States may be subject to a 4% United States federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the applicable Treasury Regulations recently promulgated thereunder. We expect that we and each of our subsidiaries will qualify for this statutory tax exemption for 2006, 2007, 2008 and subsequent years. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to fail to qualify for this tax exemption and thereby be subject to United States federal income tax on our United States source income. For example, we would fail to qualify for exemption under Section 883 of the Code for a particular tax year if shareholders, each of whom owned, actually or under applicable constructive ownership rules, a 5% or greater interest in the vote and value of the outstanding shares of our stock, owned in the aggregate 50% or more of the vote and value of the outstanding shares of our stock, and “qualified shareholders” as defined by the regulations to Section 883 do not own, directly or under applicable constructive ownership rules, sufficient shares in our closely-held block of stock to preclude the shares in the closely-held block that are not so owned from representing 50% or more of the value of our stock for more than half of the number of days during the taxable year. Establishing such ownership by qualified shareholders will depend upon the status of our direct and indirect individual shareholders as residents of qualifying jurisdictions and whether they own shares through bearer share arrangements and will require compliance with ownership certification procedures by individual shareholders that are residents of qualifying jurisdictions and by each intermediary or other person in the chain of ownership between us and such individuals. Due to the factual nature of the issues involved, we can give no assurances on our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. 16 Table of Contents If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries could be subject for those years to an effective 4% U.S. federal income tax on the shipping income these companies derive during the year that are attributable to the transport of cargoes to or from the United States. The imposition of this taxation would have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our currently anticipated operations, we do not believe that we will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our time chartering activities does not constitute “passive income,” and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our proposed method of operation. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders will face adverse U.S. tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders), such shareholders would be liable to pay United States federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common shares, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder’s holding period of our common shares. Legislation has been proposed in the United States which would prevent dividends on our shares from qualifying for certain preferential rates for U.S. federal income tax purposes. “Qualified dividend income” derived by noncorporate shareholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax is currently subject to U.S. federal income taxation at reduced rates. We expect that under current law, so long as our shares are traded on the NASDAQ Global Market or the and we do not and have not qualified as a “passive foreign investment company” for U.S. federal income tax purposes, distributions treated as dividends for U.S. tax purposes on our shares will potentially be eligible (that is, eligible if certain conditions relating to the shareholder are satisfied) for treatment as qualified dividend income. Proposed legislation in the United States would, however, if enacted, make it unlikely that such distributions on our shares would be eligible for such treatment. As of the date hereof, no assurance can be given regarding whether or not such legislation will be enacted. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock has been and may in the future be subject to significant fluctuations. The market price of our common stock has been and may in the future be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Among the factors that have in the past and could in the future affect our stock price are: • quarterly variations in our results of operations; • changes in sales or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; • speculation in the press or investment community about our business or the shipping industry generally; • changes in market valuations of similar companies and stock market price and volume fluctuations generally; • strategic actions by us or our competitors such as acquisitions or restructurings; • regulatory developments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • general market conditions; and • domestic and international economic, market and currency factors unrelated to our performance. The stock markets in general, and the markets for dry bulk shipping and shipping stocks in general, have experienced extreme volatility that has sometimes been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. If holders of our warrants exercise their warrants to purchase shares of our common stock, you will experience immediate dilution. As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding 150,000 Class A warrants issued to our initial shareholders. Of our publicly traded classes of warrants, we had outstanding as of December 31, 2008, 786,265 Class W warrants and 1,655,006 Class Z warrants. Each of these warrants is exercisable to purchase one share of our common stock at an exercise price of $5.00 per share, and our Class A, Class W and Class Z warrants must be exercised for cash. Our Class A warrants expire July 29, 2011, our Class W warrants expire July 29, 2009, and our Class Z warrants expire July 29, 2011. As a result, if holders of our warrants exercise their warrants, we may issue up to 2,591,271 additional shares of our common stock at $5.00 per share, which could cause our shareholders to be diluted. Two of our principal shareholders may effectively control the outcome of matters on which our shareholders are entitled to vote, including the election of directors and other significant corporate actions. Two of our principal shareholders, The Mida’s Touch S.A. and FS Holdings Limited, controlled by Mr. Varouxakis and members of the Restis family, respectively, currently beneficially own approximately 26.2% of our outstanding common stock. While our principal shareholders have no agreement, arrangement or understanding relating to the voting of their shares, they may effectively control the outcome of matters on which our shareholders are entitled to vote, including the election of directors and other significant corporate actions. The interests of these shareholders may be different from your interests. 18 Table of Contents Future sales of our stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may depress the market price for our common stock. These sales could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities in the future. We may issue additional shares of our stock in the future and our shareholders may elect to sell large numbers of shares held by them from time to time. Because the Republic of the Marshall Islands, where we are incorporated, does not have a well-developed body of corporate law, shareholders may have fewer rights and protections than under typical United States law, such as Delaware, and shareholders may have difficulty in protecting their interest with regard to actions taken by our Board of Directors. Our corporate affairs are governed by amended and restated articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain U.S. jurisdictions. Shareholder rights may differ as well. For example, under Marshall Islands law, a copy of the notice of any meeting of the shareholders must be given not less than 15 days before the meeting, whereas in Delaware such notice must be given not less than 10 days before the meeting. Therefore, if immediate shareholder action is required, a meeting may not be able to be convened as quickly as it can be convened under Delaware law. Also, under Marshall Islands law, any action required to be taken by a meeting of shareholders may only be taken without a meeting if consent is in writing and is signed by all of the shareholders entitled to vote, whereas under Delaware law action may be taken by consent if approved by the number of shareholders that would be required to approve such action at a meeting. Therefore, under Marshall Islands law, it may be more difficult for a company to take certain actions without a meeting even if a majority of the shareholders approve of such action. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. It may not be possible for investors to enforce U.S. judgments against us. We, and all our subsidiaries, are or will be incorporated in jurisdictions outside the U.S. and substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries and will be located outside the U.S. In addition, most of our directors and officers are or will be non-residents of the U.S., and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are or will be located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to serve process within the U.S. upon us, our subsidiaries, or our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us for civil liabilities in U.S. courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we or our subsidiaries are incorporated or where our or the assets of our subsidiaries are located would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our subsidiaries based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws or would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or our subsidiaries based on those laws. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents, and under Marshall Islands corporate law, could make it difficult for our shareholders to replace or remove our current Board of Directors or have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Several provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and by-laws, and certain provisions of the Marshall Islands corporate law, could make it difficult for our shareholders to change the composition of our Board of Directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, these provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable. These provisions include: 19 Table of Contents • authorizing our Board of Directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock without shareholder approval; • providing for a classified Board of Directors with staggered, three year terms; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • authorizing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of a two-thirds majority of the outstanding shares of our common shares, voting as a single class, entitled to vote for the directors; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders; • establishing advance notice requirements for election to our Board of Directors or proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings; and • limiting our ability to enter into business combination transactions with certain shareholders. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public shareholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common shares and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. 