Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in this report. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those currently viewed by us to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry may limit our ability to maintain or increase net sales and operating results during industry downturns. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and periodically experiences significant economic downturns characterized by diminished product demand, resulting in production overcapacity and excess inventory in the markets we serve. A downturn can result in lower unit volumes and rapid erosion of average selling prices. The semiconductor industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both semiconductor companies’ and their customers’ products or a decline in general economic conditions. We have experienced these conditions in our business in the past and may experience renewed, and possibly more severe and prolonged, downturns in the future as a result of such cyclical changes. This may reduce our results of operations and the value of our business. We base our planned operating expenses in part on our expectations of future revenue, and a significant portion of our expenses is relatively fixed in the short term. If revenue for a particular quarter is lower than we expect, we likely will be unable to proportionately reduce our operating expenses for that quarter, which would harm our operating results for that quarter. We manufacture our products based on our estimates of customer demand, and if our estimates are incorrect our financial results could be negatively impacted. We make significant decisions, including determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept, production schedules, component procurement commitments, personnel needs and other resource requirements based on our estimates of customer demand and expected demand for and success of their products. The short-term nature of commitments by many of our customers and the possibility of rapid changes in demand for their products reduces our ability to estimate accurately future customer demand for our products. On occasion, customers may require rapid increases in supply, which can challenge our production resources and reduce margins. We may not have sufficient capacity at any given time to meet our customers’ increased demand for our products. Conversely, downturns in the semiconductor industry have caused and may in the future cause our customers to reduce significantly the amount of products they order from us. Because many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand would decrease our results of operations, including our gross profit. 15 Table of Contents Our customers may cancel their orders, reduce quantities or delay production. We generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. Customers may cancel their orders, reduce quantities or delay production for a number of reasons. Cancellations, reductions or delays by a significant customer or by a group of customers, which we have experienced as a result of periodic downturns in the semiconductor industry or failure to achieve design wins, have affected and may continue to affect our results of operations adversely. These risks are exacerbated because many of our products are customized, which hampers our ability to sell excess inventory to the general market. In addition, while we do not obtain long-term purchase commitments, we generally agree to the pricing of a particular product for the entire lifecycle of the product, which can extend over a number of years. If we underestimate our costs when determining pricing, our margins and results of operations would be adversely affected. We depend on high utilization of our manufacturing capacity. An important factor in our success is the extent to which we are able to utilize the available capacity in our fabrication facilities. As many of our costs are fixed, a reduction in capacity utilization, as well as changes in other factors such as reduced yield or unfavorable product mix, could reduce our profit margins and adversely affect our operating results. A number of factors and circumstances may reduce utilization rates, including periods of industry overcapacity, low levels of customer orders, operating inefficiencies, mechanical failures and disruption of operations due to expansion or relocation of operations, power interruptions, fire, flood or other natural disasters or calamities. A significant portion of our sales comes from a relatively limited number of customers. Historically, we have relied on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our total revenue. If we were to lose key customers or if customers cease to place orders for our high volume products or services, our financial results would be adversely affected. While we served more than 200 customers in the year ended December 31, 2007, net sales to our 10 largest customers represented approximately 58.9% of our net sales for the period. One customer represented greater than 10% of our net sales during the year ended December 31, 2007. Significant reductions in sales to any of these customers, the loss of major customers or a general curtailment in orders for our high volume products or services within a short period of time would adversely affect our business. Our industry is highly competitive. The semiconductor industry is highly competitive and includes hundreds of companies, a number of which have achieved substantial market share both within our product categories and end markets. Current and prospective customers for our products and services evaluate our capabilities against the merits of our competitors. Some of our competitors are well established as independent companies and have substantially greater market share and manufacturing, financial, research and development and marketing resources than we do. We also compete with emerging companies that are attempting to sell their products in certain of our end markets and with the internal semiconductor design and manufacturing capabilities of many of our significant customers. We expect to experience continuing competitive pressures in our markets from existing competitors and new entrants. Any consolidation among our competitors could enhance their product offerings and financial resources, further enhancing their competitive position. Our ability to compete will depend on a number of factors, including the following: • our ability to offer cost-effective and high quality products and services on a timely basis using our technologies; • our ability to accurately identify and respond to emerging technological trends and demand for product features and performance characteristics; 16 Table of Contents • our ability to continue to rapidly introduce new products that are accepted by the market; • our ability to adopt or adapt to emerging industry standards; • the number and nature of our competitors and competitiveness of their products and services in a given market; and • entrance of new competitors into our markets. Many of these factors are outside of our control. In the future, our competitors may replace us as a supplier to our existing or potential customers, and our customers may satisfy more of their requirements internally. As a result, we may experience declining revenues and results of operations. The average selling prices of our semiconductor products have at times declined rapidly and will likely do so in the future, which could harm our revenue and gross profit. The semiconductor products we develop and sell are subject to rapid declines in average selling prices. From time to time, we have had to reduce our prices significantly to meet customer requirements, and we may be required to reduce our prices in the future. This would cause our gross profit to decrease. Our financial results will suffer if we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, reducing our costs or developing new or enhanced products on a timely basis with higher selling prices or gross profit. Changes in demand for consumer electronics, including digital televisions, notebook computers, flat panel displays and mobile phones, and products in our other end markets can impact our results of operations. Demand for our products will depend in part on the changes in demand for various consumer electronics products, including digital televisions, notebook computers, flat panel displays and mobile phones, and electronics products in our other end markets and on general economic growth. To the extent that we cannot offset periods of reduced demand that may occur in these markets through greater penetration of these markets or reduction in our production and costs, our sales and gross profit may decline, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to develop new products and process technologies or enhance our existing products and services in order to react to rapid technological change and market demands, our business will suffer. Our industry is subject to rapid technological change and product obsolescence as customers and competitors create new and innovative products and technologies. Products or technologies developed by other companies may render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive, and we may not be able to access advanced process technologies or to license or otherwise obtain essential intellectual property required by our customers. We must develop new products and services and enhance our existing products and services to meet rapidly evolving customer requirements. We design products for customers who continually require higher performance and functionality at lower costs. We must, therefore, continue to enhance the performance and functionality of our products. The development process for these advancements is lengthy and requires us to accurately anticipate technological changes and market trends. Developing and enhancing these products is uncertain and can be time-consuming, costly and complex. If we do not continue to develop and maintain process technologies that are in demand by our semiconductor manufacturing services customers, we may be unable to maintain existing customers or attract new customers. Customer and market requirements can change during the development process. There is a risk that these developments and enhancements will be late, fail to meet customer or market specifications or not be competitive with products or services from our competitors that offer comparable or superior performance and functionality. 17 Table of Contents For example, net sales generated in 2006 by our Imaging Solutions business decreased $102.8 million, or 63%, compared to net sales generated by that business in 2005. This decrease was primarily attributable to delays in transitioning to new megapixel products. We have begun marketing a new line of power management solutions that we intend to sell to our customers in 2008. Any new products, such as our new power management solutions, or product or service enhancements may not be accepted in new or existing markets. Our business will suffer if we fail to develop and introduce new products and services or product and service enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. If we fail to achieve design wins for our semiconductor products, we may lose the opportunity for sales to customers for a significant period of time and be unable to recoup our investments in our products. We expend considerable resources to achieve design wins for our semiconductor products, especially our new products and product enhancements. Once a customer designs a semiconductor into a product, that customer is likely to continue to use the same semiconductor or enhanced versions of that semiconductor from the same supplier across a number of similar and successor products for a lengthy period of time due to the significant costs associated with qualifying a new supplier and potentially redesigning the product to incorporate a different semiconductor. If we fail to achieve an initial design win in a customer’s qualification process, we may lose the opportunity for significant sales to that customer for a number of products and for a lengthy period of time. This may cause us to be unable to recoup our investments in our semiconductor products, which would harm our business. We have lengthy and expensive design-to-mass production and manufacturing process development cycles. The cycle time from the design stage to mass production for some of our products is long and requires the investment of significant resources with many potential customers without any guarantee of sales. Our design-to-mass production cycle typically begins with a three-to-twelve month semiconductor development stage and test period followed by a three-to-twelve month end-product qualification period by our customers. The fairly lengthy front end of our sales cycle creates a risk that we may incur significant expenses but may be unable to realize meaningful sales. Moreover, prior to mass production, customers may decide to cancel their products or change production specifications, resulting in sudden changes in our product specifications, increasing our production time and costs. Failure to meet such specifications may also delay the launch of our products or result in lost sales. In addition, we collaborate and jointly develop certain process technologies and manufacturing process flows custom to certain of our semiconductor manufacturing services customers. To the extent that our semiconductor manufacturing services customers fail to achieve market acceptance for their products, we may be unable to recoup our engineering resources commitment and our investment in process technology development, which would harm our business. We face numerous challenges relating to executing our growth strategy. As part of our growth strategy, we have begun marketing a new line of power management semiconductor products and expect to introduce other new products and services in the future. If we are unable to execute our growth strategy effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business plan or respond to competitive pressures. Moreover, if our allocation of resources does not correspond with future demand for particular products, we could miss market opportunities, and our business and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. The loss of our key employees would materially adversely affect our business, and we may not be able to attract or retain the technical or management employees necessary to compete in our industry. Our key executives have substantial experience and have made significant contributions to our business, and our continued success is dependent upon the retention of our key management executives, including our Chief 18 Table of Contents Executive Officer and Chairman, Sang Park, and our President and Chief Financial Officer, Robert Krakauer, as well as the services provided by our engineers and a number of other key managerial, marketing, planning, financial, technical and operations personnel. The loss of such key personnel would have a material adverse effect on our business. Growth in our business is dependent, to a large degree, on our ability to retain and attract such employees. In addition, we depend on our ability to attract and retain skilled technical and managerial personnel. We could lose the services of, or fail to recruit, skilled personnel. This could hinder our research and product development programs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. We have a history of losses and may not become profitable in the future. Since we began operations as a separate entity in 2004, we have not generated a profit and have generated significant net losses. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $564.4 million and negative unitholders’ equity. To become profitable, we will need to generate and sustain substantially higher revenue while maintaining or reducing expenses. We currently expect to incur higher expenses in each of the next several quarters to support increased research and development and sales and marketing efforts. These expenditures may not result in increased revenue or an increase in the number of customers immediately or at all. Because many of our expenses are fixed in the short term, or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall of sales. If we become profitable, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or an annual basis. If we encounter future labor problems, we may fail to deliver our products and services in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 61% of our employees were represented by the MagnaChip Semiconductor Labor Union, which is a member of the Federation of Korean Metal Workers Trade Unions. We can offer no assurance that issues with the labor union and other employees will be resolved favorably for us in the future, that we will not experience work stoppages or other labor problems in future years or that we will not incur significant expenses related to such issues. We may incur costs to engage in future business combinations or strategic investments, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of those transactions. As part of our business strategy, we may seek to enter into business combinations, investments, joint ventures and other strategic alliances with other companies in order to maintain and grow revenue and market presence as well as to provide us with access to technology, products and services. Any such transaction would be accompanied by risks that may harm our business, such as difficulties in assimilating the operations, personnel and products of an acquired business or in realizing the projected benefits; disruption of our ongoing business; potential increases in our indebtedness and contingent liabilities; and charges if the acquired company or assets are later determined to be worth less than the amount paid for them in an earlier original acquisition. In addition, our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our senior secured notes and senior subordinated notes may restrict us from making acquisitions that we may otherwise wish to pursue. The failure to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields could adversely affect our business. The manufacture of semiconductors requires precision, a highly regulated and sterile environment and specialized equipment. We may have difficulty achieving acceptable yields in the manufacture of our products or those of our semiconductor manufacturing services customers, which could lead to higher costs, a loss of customers or delay in market acceptance of our products. Slight impurities or defects in the photomasks used to print circuits on a wafer or other factors can cause significant difficulties, particularly in connection with the production of a new product, the adoption of a new manufacturing process or any expansion of our manufacturing capacity and related transitions. Yields below our target levels can negatively impact our gross profit and may cause us to eliminate underperforming products. 19 Table of Contents We rely on a number of independent subcontractors. A substantial portion of our net sales are derived from semiconductor devices assembled in packages or on film. The packaging and testing of semiconductors require technical skill and specialized equipment. For the portion of packaging and testing that we outsource, we use subcontractors located in Korea and Southeast Asia. We rely on these subcontractors to package and test our devices with acceptable quality and yield levels. If our semiconductor packagers and test service providers experience problems in packaging and testing our semiconductor devices, experience prolonged quality or yield problems or decrease the capacity available to us, our operating results could be adversely affected. We depend on successful parts and materials procurement for our manufacturing processes. We use a wide range of parts and materials in the production of our semiconductors, including silicon, processing chemicals, processing gasses, precious metals and electronic and mechanical components. We procure materials and electronic and mechanical components from international sources and original equipment manufacturers. From time to time in the past, the supply of polysilicon available for use in the manufacture of semiconductor products has been constrained, and we may confront similar constraints in the future. If we cannot obtain adequate materials in a timely manner or on favorable terms for the manufacture of our products, revenues and results of operations will decline. We face product return and liability risks and the risk of negative publicity if our products fail. Our semiconductors are incorporated into a number of end products, and our business is exposed to product return and liability risk and the risk of negative publicity if our products fail. Although we maintain insurance for product liability claims, the amount and scope of our insurance may not be adequate to cover a product liability claim that is asserted against us. In addition, product liability insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and, in the future, may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, we are exposed to the product liability risk and the risk of negative publicity affecting our customers. Our sales may decline if any of our customers are sued on a product liability claim. We also may suffer a decline in sales from the negative publicity associated with such a lawsuit or with adverse public perceptions in general regarding our customers’ products. Further, if our products are delivered with impurities or defects, we could incur additional development, repair or replacement costs, and our credibility and the market’s acceptance of our products could be harmed. We could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences as a result of changes in, or differences in the interpretation of, applicable tax laws. Our company organizational structure is based on assumptions about the various tax laws, including withholding tax, and other laws of applicable non-U.S. jurisdictions. In addition, our Korean subsidiary, MagnaChip Semiconductor, Ltd., or MagnaChip Korea, was granted a limited tax holiday under Korean law in October 2004. This grant provides for certain tax exemptions for corporate taxes, withholding taxes, acquisition taxes, property and land use taxes and other taxes until December 31, 2008. In addition, we do not expect the income of our foreign subsidiaries to be subject to taxation in the United States by reason of the “Subpart F” regime. Our interpretations and conclusions regarding tax and other laws are not binding on any taxing authority and, if these assumptions and conclusions are incorrect, if our business were to be operated in a way that rendered us ineligible for tax exemptions or to become subject to incremental tax, or if the authorities were to change or modify the relevant laws, we could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences or have the anticipated benefits of our organizational structure materially impaired. 20 Table of Contents Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and know-how, as well as our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We seek to protect our proprietary technologies and know-how through the use of patents, trade secrets, confidentiality agreements and other security measures. The process of seeking patent protection takes a long time and is expensive. There can be no assurance that patents will issue from pending or future applications or that, if patents issue, they will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights granted under the patents will provide us with meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. Some of our technologies are not covered by any patent or patent application. The confidentiality agreements on which we rely to protect these technologies may be breached and may not be adequate to protect our proprietary technologies. There can be no assurance that other countries in which we market our services will protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States. Our ability to compete successfully depends on our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We have no means of knowing what patent applications have been filed in the United States until they are published. In addition, the semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We may need to file lawsuits to enforce our patents or intellectual property rights, and we may need to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others. Any litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert our resources. Despite our efforts in bringing or defending lawsuits, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. In the event of an adverse outcome in any such litigation, we may be required to: • pay substantial damages, indemnify customers or licensees for damages they may suffer if the products they purchase from us or the technology they license from us violate the intellectual property rights of others; • stop our manufacture, use, sale or importation of infringing products; expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies; • discontinue processes; or • obtain licenses to the intellectual property we are found to have infringed. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in such development or acquisition or that such licenses would be available under reasonable terms, or at all. Our competitors may develop, patent or gain access to know-how and technology similar to our own. In addition, many of our patents are subject to cross licenses, several of which are with our competitors. The noncompetition arrangement agreed to by Hynix in connection with the Original Acquisition expired on October 1, 2007. Under that arrangement, Hynix retained a perpetual license to use the intellectual property that we acquired from Hynix in the Original Acquisition. Now that these noncompetition restrictions have expired, Hynix and its subsidiaries are free to develop products that may incorporate or embody intellectual property developed by us prior to October 2004. We are subject to many environmental laws and regulations that could affect our operations or result in significant expenses. We are subject to requirements of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate, governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, the generation, use, handling, storage and disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous substances (including asbestos) and wastes, soil and groundwater contamination and employee health and safety. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. There can be no assurance that we have been, or will be, in compliance with all such laws and regulations or that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in 21 Table of Contents connection with these laws and regulations in the future. The adoption of new environmental, health and safety laws, the failure to comply with new or existing laws, or issues relating to hazardous substances could subject us to material liability (including substantial fines or penalties), impose the need for additional capital equipment or other process requirements upon us, curtail our operations or restrict our ability to expand operations. We may need additional capital in the future, and such capital may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We may require more capital in the future from equity or debt financings to fund our operations, finance investments in equipment and infrastructure, acquire complimentary businesses and technologies, and respond to competitive pressures and potential strategic opportunities. In addition, additional capital may not be available when needed or, if available, may not be available on favorable terms. In addition, our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our notes limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness under certain circumstances. If we are unable to obtain capital on favorable terms, or if we are unable to obtain capital at all, we may have to reduce our operations or forego opportunities, and this may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Research and development investments may not yield profitable and commercially viable product and service offerings and thus will not necessarily result in increases in revenues for us. We invest significant resources in our research and development. Our research and development efforts, however, may not yield commercially viable products or enhance our semiconductor manufacturing services offerings. During each stage of research and development there is a substantial risk that we will have to abandon a potential product or service offering which is no longer marketable and in which we have invested significant resources. In the event we are able to develop viable new products or service offerings, a significant amount of time will have elapsed between our investment in the necessary research and development effort and the receipt of any related revenues. Our business depends on international customers, suppliers and operations in Asia, and as a result we are subject to regulatory, operational, financial and political risks, which could adversely affect our financial results. We rely on, and expect to continue to rely on, suppliers, subcontractors and operations located primarily in Asia. As a result, we face risks inherent in international operations, such as unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other market barriers, political, social and economic instability, adverse tax consequences, war, civil disturbances and acts of terrorism, difficulties in accounts receivable collection, extended payment terms and differing labor standards, enforcement of contractual obligations and protection of intellectual property. These risks may lead to increased costs or decreased revenue growth, or both. Although we do not derive any revenue from, nor sell any products in, North Korea, any future increase in tensions between South Korea and North Korea which may occur, for example, an outbreak of military hostilities, would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risks associated with currency fluctuations. Our net sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, as well as various other currencies, including the Korean won, Japanese yen and euro. As a result, changes in the exchange rates of these currencies or any other applicable currencies to the U.S. dollar will affect the translated price of products and therefore operating margins and could result in exchange losses. Conversely, during 2007, more than 60% of our costs were denominated in Korean won and, to a lesser extent, in Japanese yen, U.S. dollars and euros. Therefore, changes in the exchange rates of these currencies or any other applicable currencies to the U.S. dollar will affect our cost of goods sold and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. As a result, a material decline in the U.S. dollar relative to the Korean won will result in an increase in our costs as a proportion of our net sales, thereby reducing our operating margins. 22 Table of Contents We cannot fully predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our profitability. We have not engaged in exchange rate hedging since the Original Acquisition. From time to time, we may engage in exchange rate hedging activities in an effort to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations. However, there can be no assurance that any hedging technique we implement will be effective. If such hedging is not effective, we may experience reduced operating margins. Our level of indebtedness is substantial, and we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. A decline in the ratings of our existing or future indebtedness may make the terms of any new indebtedness we choose to incur more costly. As of December 31, 2007, our total indebtedness was approximately $830 million. Our substantial debt could have important consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because some of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will generate a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. For example, in 2006 our cash interest expense exceeded the cash generated from our operating activities, and in 2007 our cash flow from operating activities was negative and did not cover any of our interest expense. On April 19, 2007, Moody’s Investor Service, Inc. downgraded the ratings on our indebtedness. The credit ratings assigned to our debt reflect the rating agency’s opinion of our ability to make payments on the debt obligations when such payments are due. A rating may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. We may experience downgrades in our debt ratings in the future, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain favorable interest rates and other terms on any new debt we may choose to incur in the future, including any new debt we may incur to refinance existing indebtedness. In the event any ratings downgrades are significant, we may choose not to incur new debt or refinance existing debt if we are unable to incur or refinance such debt at favorable interest rates or on favorable terms. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations or if we are unable to refinance existing indebtedness on favorable terms, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. The credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or be able to obtain the proceeds which we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. 23 Table of Contents Our expenses could increase if Hynix were unwilling or unable to provide certain services related to our shared facilities with Hynix, and if Hynix were to become insolvent, we could lose certain of our leases. Because we share certain facilities with Hynix, several services that are essential to our business are provided to us by or through Hynix. These services include electricity, bulk gasses and de-ionized water, campus facilities, wastewater and sewage management, and environmental safety. If any of our agreements with Hynix were terminated or if Hynix were unwilling or unable to fulfill its obligations to us under the terms of these agreements, we would have to procure these services on our own and as a result may experience an increase in our expenses. In addition, we lease building and warehouse space from Hynix in Cheongju, Korea, and lease to Hynix some of the space we own in Cheongju, Korea. If Hynix were to become insolvent, we could lose our leases on some of our building and warehouse space. Investor confidence may be adversely impacted if we are unable to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are subject to rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which require us to include in our Annual Report on Form 10-K our management’s report on, and assessment of the effectiveness of, our internal controls over financial reporting. Beginning with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2008, our independent auditors will be required to attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, there is a risk that we will not comply with all of the requirements imposed by Section 404. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. Any of these possible outcomes could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and could result in investigations or sanctions by the SEC, the applicable securities exchange on which our securities are listed or other regulatory authorities or in securityholder litigation. Any of these factors ultimately could harm our business and could negatively impact the market price of our securities. Ineffective control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could adversely affect the trading price of our securities. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives. However, our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. We may need to incur impairment and other restructuring charges, which could materially affect our results of operations and financial conditions. During industry downturns and for other reasons, we may need to record impairment or restructuring charges. From the Original Acquisition in October 2004 through December 31, 2007, we recognized aggregate restructuring and impairment charges of $142.6 million, which consisted of $136.5 million of impairment charges and $6.1 million of restructuring charges. In the future, we may need to record additional impairment charges or to further restructure our business and incur additional restructuring charges, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 24 Table of Contents 