Item 1A. Risk Factors Some of the statements in this report and, in particular, statements found in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include statements about our expectations regarding our future liquidity, earnings, expenditures and financial condition. These statements are often identified by the words "will," "should," "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "hope," or similar expressions. These statements reflect management's current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. There are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control. These factors, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the factors described below. Our actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements, and accordingly, we can give no assurances that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what impact they will have on our results of operations or financial condition. In view of these uncertainties, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly revise any forward looking statements that have been made to reflect the occurrence of events after the date hereof. Risks associated with our business We rely on key customers and a loss of one or more of our key customers could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. During the year ended December 31, 2013, no customer accounted for more than 10 percent of consolidated net sales. However, losses of key customers could significantly impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. We are dependent upon key management executives the loss of whom may adversely impact our business. We depend on the expertise, experience and continued services of corporate and mill management. The loss of such management, or an inability to attract or retain other key individuals, could materially adversely affect our business. There can be no assurance that our salaries and incentive compensation plans will allow us to retain the services of these key management executives or hire new key employees. Our indebtedness may adversely affect our financial health. We acquired Longview on July 18, 2013. In connection with the acquisition, we entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the "Amended and Restated Credit Agreement") to fund the acquisition, repay certain indebtedness, pay transaction fees and expenses and provide for greater working capital needs. This senior secured credit facility ("Credit Facility") has an initial aggregate principal amount of $1.675 billion, consisting of a term loan A-1of $805.0 million, a term loan A-2 of $470.0 million and a revolving credit facility "Revolver" in an initial amount of $400.0 million and an accordion feature that allows the Company, subject to certain terms and conditions and approval of the lenders, to increase the commitments under the Revolver by up to $300.0 million. Term Loan A-1 includes quarterly principal repayments commencing December 31, 2013 in aggregate annual amounts equal to 5% (years 1, 2 and 3), 10% (year 4) and 11.25% (year 5) of the initial principal amount thereof. Term Loan A-2 includes quarterly principal repayments commencing December 31, 2013 in an aggregate annual amount equal to 1% of the initial principal amount thereof. Principal amounts outstanding under each of the revolver and Term Loan A-1 are due and payable in full on July 18, 12 Table of Contents 2018. Principal amounts outstanding under the Term Loan A-2 are due and payable in full on July 18, 2020. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $1.2 billion of outstanding debt. As a result of the indebtedness, our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes may be impaired in the future. The debt could make us vulnerable to economic downturns and may hinder our ability to adjust to rapidly changing market conditions. A significant portion of our cash flow from operations will be needed to meet the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. The business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable it to repay our indebtedness and to fund other liquidity needs, including capital expenditure requirements. The indebtedness incurred by us under our Credit Facility bears interest at variable rates, and therefore if interest rates increase, our debt service requirements would increase. In such case, we may need to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including the Credit Facility, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we cannot service or refinance our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our Credit Facility contains restrictive covenants that limit our liquidity and corporate activities, including our ability to pursue additional acquisitions. Our Credit Facility imposes operating and financial restrictions that limit our ability to: •incur additional indebtedness; •create additional liens on our assets; •make investments; •engage in mergers or acquisitions; •pay dividends; and •sell all or any substantial part of our assets. In addition, our Credit Facility also imposes other restrictions on us. Therefore, we would need to seek permission from the lenders in order to engage in certain corporate actions. The lenders' interests may be different from ours, and no assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain the lenders' permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest. Our Credit Facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios. The failure to maintain the specified ratios could result in an event of default if not cured or waived. In the event of a default under our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the lenders generally would be able to declare all outstanding indebtedness, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable. In addition, borrowings under the Credit Facility are secured by a first priority lien on all of our assets and, in the event of a default under that facility, the lenders generally would be entitled to seize the collateral. A default under any debt instrument, unless cured or waived, would likely have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents If we fail to extend or renegotiate the collective bargaining agreements as they expire from time to time, or if our unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, our business and operating results could be materially harmed. Most of our hourly paid employees are represented by trade unions. We are a party to collective bargaining contracts which apply to approximately 800 employees at various corrugating manufacturing locations, 700 employees at the Longview mill, 600 employees at the North Charleston mill, and 400 employees at the Roanoke Rapids mill. No assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully extend or renegotiate the collective bargaining agreements as they expire from time to time. Currently, there is a collective bargaining agreement in effect with respect to Longview through June 2014, North Charleston through June 2015, and Roanoke Rapids through August 2016. If we are unable to extend or negotiate new agreements without work stoppages, it could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products and adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations are global in nature, and accordingly our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be adversely affected by the political and economic conditions of the countries in which we conduct business, by fluctuations in exchange rates and other factors related to our international operations. Approximately 20 percent and 23 percent, respectively, of each of our 2013 and 2012 revenues were derived from export sales. Our international operations and activities face increasing exposure to the risks of selling to customers in foreign countries. These factors include: •Changes in foreign currency exchange rates which could adversely affect selling prices for our products, and therefore our competitive position in a particular market. •Trade protection measures in favor of local producers of competing products, including government subsidies, tax benefits, trade actions (such as anti-dumping proceedings) and other measures giving local producers a competitive advantage over the Company. •Changes generally in political, regulatory or economic conditions in the countries in which we conduct business. These risks could affect the cost of selling our products, our pricing, sales volume, and ultimately our financial performance. The likelihood of such occurrences and their potential effect on the Company vary from country to country and are unpredictable. We may be required to record a charge to our earnings if our goodwill becomes impaired. We test for impairment of goodwill annually in accordance with generally accepted accounting standards. When events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value for such assets may not be recoverable, we review goodwill for impairment on an interim basis. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances requiring our interim testing include a decline in stock price as compared to our book value per share, future cash flows and slower growth rates. In connection with future annual or interim tests, we may be required to record a non-cash charge to earnings during the period in which any impairment of goodwill is determined, which would adversely impact our results of operations. See Note 2. "Significant Accounting Policies—Goodwill and Intangible Assets" in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to testing for impairment of goodwill. 14 Table of Contents Our business depends on effective information management systems. We rely on our enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems to support such critical business operations as processing sales orders and invoicing, inventory control, purchasing and supply chain management, payroll and human resources, and financial reporting. We periodically implement upgrades to such systems or migrate one or more of our affiliates, facilities or operations from one system to another. If we are unable to adequately maintain such systems to support our developing business requirements or effectively manage any upgrade or migration, we could encounter difficulties that could have a material adverse impact on our business, internal controls over financial reporting, financial results, or our ability to timely and accurately report such results. We are subject to cyber-security risks related to certain customer, employee, vendor or other company data. We use information technologies to securely manage operations and various business functions. We rely upon various technologies to process, store and report on our business and interact with customers, vendors and employees. Despite our security design and controls, and those of our third-party providers, we could become subject to cyber attacks which could result in operational disruptions or the misappropriation of sensitive data. There can be no assurance that such disruptions or misappropriations and the resulting repercussions will not be material to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We may incur business disruptions. We take measures to minimize the risks of disruptions at our manufacturing facilities. However, the occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tropical storm, earthquake, tornado, flood, fire or other unanticipated problems such as labor difficulties, equipment failure or unscheduled maintenance could cause operational disruptions and could materially adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. Any losses due to these events may not be covered by our existing insurance policies or may be subject to certain deductibles. Environmental regulations could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We are subject to environmental regulation by federal, state, and local authorities in the United States, including requirements that regulate discharge into the environment, waste management, and remediation of environmental contamination. Maintaining compliance with existing and new environmental laws may require material additional capital expenditures. Due to past history of industrial operations at the Roanoke Rapids mill, North Charleston mill, Longview mill, and converting facilities the possibility of on-site and off-site environmental impact to the soil and groundwater may present a heightened risk of contamination. If we are required to make significant expenditures for remediation, the costs of such efforts may have a significant negative impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Our operations are dependent upon certain operating agreements for fiber. We rely on certain supply arrangements to provide us roundwood and woodchips. If one of these suppliers suffered a setback, KapStone's supply of roundwood and woodchips may not be adequate to cover customer needs. 15 Table of Contents Risks Associated with KapStone's Common Stock The market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. The market price of our common stock may be volatile due to certain factors, including, but not limited to: quarterly fluctuations in our financial and operating results; general conditions in the paper and packaging industries; or changes in earnings estimates. Our executive officers and directors control a substantial percentage, approximately 13 percent, of our common stock and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. At December 31, 2013, our executive officers and directors owned 12.6 million shares of our common stock, or approximately 13 percent of our total outstanding common stock. Accordingly, our executive officers and directors may have some influence over the outcome of all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including future acquisitions and the election of directors. In addition, our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. At the annual meeting, as a consequence of our "staggered" board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our officers and directors, because of their ownership position, will have some influence regarding the outcome of the election. Risks associated with the paper, packaging, forest products and related industries The paper, packaging, forest products and related industries are highly cyclical. Fluctuations in the prices of and the demand for products could result in smaller profit margins and lower sales volumes. Historically, economic and market shifts, fluctuations in capacity and changes in foreign currency exchange rates have created cyclical changes in prices, sales volume and margins for products in the paper, packaging, forest products and related industries. The length and magnitude of industry cycles have varied over time and by product, but generally reflect changes in macroeconomic conditions and levels of industry capacity. Most paper products and many wood products used in the packaging industry are commodities that are widely available from many producers. Because commodity products have few distinguishing qualities from producer to producer, competition for these products is based primarily on price, which is determined by supply relative to demand. The overall levels of demand for these commodity products reflect fluctuations in levels of end-user demand, which depend in large part on general macroeconomic conditions in North America and regional economic conditions in our markets (including Europe, Asia, and Central and South America), as well as foreign currency exchange rates. The foregoing factors could materially and adversely impact our sales, cash flows, profitability, and results of operations. Difficulty obtaining wood fiber at favorable prices, or at all, may negatively impact companies in the paper and packaging industry. Wood fiber (including OCC) is the principal raw material in many parts of the paper and packaging industry. Wood fiber is a commodity, and prices historically have been cyclical. Environmental litigation and regulatory developments have caused, and may cause in the future, significant reductions in the amount of timber available for commercial harvest in the United States. In addition, future domestic or foreign legislation and litigation concerning the use of timberlands, the protection of endangered species, the promotion of forest health and the response to and prevention of catastrophic wildfires could also affect timber supplies. Availability of harvested timber may further be limited by fire, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, wind storms, flooding and other causes, thereby reducing supply and increasing prices. Demand for OCC, especially from China, could result in shortages or spikes in the cost of OCC. 16 Table of Contents Industry supply of commodity paper and wood products is also subject to fluctuation, as changing industry conditions can influence producers to idle or permanently close individual machines or entire mills. In addition, to avoid substantial cash costs in connection with idling or closing a mill, some producers will choose to continue to operate at a loss, sometimes even a cash loss, which could prolong weak pricing environments due to oversupply. Oversupply in these markets can also result from producers introducing new capacity in response to favorable short-term pricing trends. Industry supply of commodity papers and wood products is also influenced by overseas production capacity, which has grown in recent years and is expected to continue to grow. Wood fiber pricing is subject to regional market influences, and the cost of wood fiber may increase in particular regions due to market shifts in those regions. In addition, the ability to obtain wood fiber from foreign countries may be impacted by economic, legal and political conditions in those countries as well as transportation difficulties. An increase in the cost of purchased energy and raw materials would lead to higher manufacturing costs, thereby reducing margins which would have an adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. Energy is a significant input cost for the paper and packaging industry. Increases in energy prices can be expected to adversely impact businesses. Energy prices, particularly for electricity, coal and fuel oil, have been volatile in recent years and currently coal and electricity prices exceed historical averages. These fluctuations have historically impacted manufacturing costs of companies in the industry, often contributing to reduced margins and increased earnings volatility. In addition, we could be materially adversely impacted by supply disruptions or the inability to pass on cost increases to our customers. Paper and packaging companies face strong competition. We face competition from numerous competitors, domestic as well as foreign. Some of our competitors are larger, more vertically integrated companies that have greater financial and other resources, greater manufacturing economies of scale, greater energy self-sufficiency and/or lower operating costs. Certain paper and wood products are vulnerable to long-term declines in demand due to competing technologies or materials. Companies in the paper and packaging industry are subject to possible declines in demand for their products as the use of alternative materials and technologies grows and the prices of such alternatives become more competitive. Any substantial shift in demand from wood and paper products to competing technologies or materials could result in a material decrease in sales of our products and could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. We cannot ensure that any efforts we might undertake to adapt our product offerings to such changes would be successful or sufficient. Paper and packaging companies are subject to significant environmental regulation and environmental compliance expenditures, as well as other potential environmental liabilities. Companies in the paper and packaging industry are subject to a wide range of general and industry specific environmental laws and regulations, particularly with respect to air emissions, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous waste management, hazardous substance reporting, hazardous substance release notification, site remediation, forestry operations and endangered species habitats. We may incur substantial expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could expose us to civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including orders limiting operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or other remedial actions. 17 Table of Contents Risks Associated with Acquisitions The anticipated benefits of the Longview acquisition may not be realized. We acquired Longview with the expectation that the acquisition of Longview would result in various benefits including, among other things, benefits relating to enhanced revenues, a broader array of product offerings, the expansion of our production capabilities, operational improvements and a diversification of our customer base. The acquisition presents challenges to management, including the integration of operations, information systems, properties and personnel of Longview and our existing operations. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition is subject to a number of uncertainties, including, but not limited to, whether we can integrate our business and the Longview business in an efficient and effective manner. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy and could materially impact our business, financial condition and operating results. We may have difficulty integrating our system of internal control over financial reporting with that of Longview. The failure to integrate our system of internal control over financial reporting with that of Longview could affect adversely our ability to exercise effective internal control over financial reporting. A failure to exercise effective internal control over financial reporting could result in a material misstatement in our annual or interim consolidated financial statements. Future acquisitions of businesses by us would subject us to additional business, operating and industry risks, the impact of which cannot presently be evaluated, and could adversely impact our capital structure. We may pursue other acquisition opportunities in an effort to diversify our investments and/or grow our business. Any business acquired by us may cause us to be affected by numerous risks inherent in the acquired business' operations. If we acquire a business in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be adversely affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. We cannot ensure that we would be able to properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors with any such acquisitions. In addition, the financing of any acquisition completed by us could adversely impact our capital structure as any such financing would likely include the issuance of additional equity securities and/or the borrowing of additional funds. The issuance of additional equity securities may significantly dilute our stockholders and/or adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Increasing our indebtedness could increase the risk of a default that would entitle the holder to declare all of such indebtedness due and payable and/or to seize any collateral securing the indebtedness. In addition, default under one debt instrument could in turn permit lenders under other debt instruments to declare borrowings outstanding under those other instruments to be due and payable pursuant to cross default clauses. Accordingly, the financing of future acquisitions could adversely impact our capital structure and the value of your equity interest in us. Except as required by law or the rules of any securities exchange on which our securities might be listed at the time we seek to consummate a subsequent acquisition, stockholders will not be asked to vote on any such proposed acquisition and no redemption rights in connection with any such acquisition will exist. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 Table of Contents 