Item 1A. Risk Factors Please carefully consider the following risk factors. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In addition, these risks are not the only ones we face. Unless specifically noted otherwise, “The Parent Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refers to the business of the combined company after the merger and the business of eToys Direct prior to the merger. General Risks Our single largest shareholder and its affiliates owns in excess of 60% of our common stock and may be able to exercise significant influence over the outcome of matters to be voted on by our shareholders. An entity within the D. E. Shaw group collectively owns in excess of 60% of our common stock. Accordingly, the D. E. Shaw group shareholder can exercise significant influence with respect to the election of directors, offers to acquire us and other matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders. The D. E. Shaw group shareholder may have interests that are different from, or are in addition to, the interests of other shareholders generally. 9 Table of Contents Our limited operating history makes it difficult for us to accurately forecast our revenues and appropriately plan our expenses. eToys Direct was originally incorporated in February 2004 and began selling products in May 2004 with the acquisition of certain assets of KB Online Holdings, LLC. BabyUniverse was incorporated in 1997, as Everything But The Baby Inc., and initially operated the domain name www.everythingbutthebaby.com but later began to market products under the BabyUniverse brand at www.babyuniverse.com. As a result, we have limited historical financial data upon which to base planned operating expenses or forecast accurately our future operating results. Further, our limited operating history will make it difficult for investors and securities analysts to evaluate our business and prospects. You must consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we may face as an early stage company with limited operating history. These risks and difficulties include challenges in accurate financial planning as a result of limited historical data and operating experience and the uncertainties resulting from having had a relatively limited time period in which to implement and evaluate our business strategies as compared to older companies with longer operating histories. Our failure to successfully address these risks and difficulties would seriously harm our business. We have a history of significant losses. If we do not achieve or sustain profitability, our financial condition and stock price could suffer. We have a history of losses and we may continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. As of February 2, 2008, our accumulated deficit was approximately $68.3 million. We have not achieved profitability for a full fiscal year. If our revenues grow too slowly, or if our expenses continue to exceed our income, we will not be able to achieve full fiscal year profitability in the near future or at all. Even if we do achieve full fiscal year profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are unable to achieve full fiscal year profitability within a short period of time, or at all, or if we are unable to sustain profitability at satisfactory levels, our financial condition could be adversely affected. Poor economic conditions may constrain discretionary consumer spending on retail products such as ours. Consumer spending patterns, particularly discretionary spending for products such as ours, are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, stock market volatility, wars, threats of war, acts of terrorism, wage rates, interest rates, inflation, taxation, and consumer confidence. General economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, may adversely affect our business results and the market price of our common stock. Our business and revenues have been, and in the future could be, negatively affected by poor economic conditions and any related decline in consumer demand for discretionary items such as our products. We face uncertainty in the degree to which poor performance in the retail industry, decreased consumer confidence or any economic slowdown will negatively affect demand for our products. We may not be able to accurately anticipate the magnitude of these effects on future quarterly results, which could seriously harm our financial condition. Because we experience seasonal fluctuations in our net sales, our quarterly results will fluctuate and our annual performance will depend largely on results from one quarter. Our business is highly seasonal, reflecting the general pattern of peak sales for the retail industry during the holiday shopping season. Typically, a substantial portion of our net revenues occur during our fourth fiscal quarter ending around January 31. We generally experience lower net revenues during the first, second and third fiscal quarters and, as is typical in the retail industry, have incurred and may continue to incur losses in these quarters. The fourth fiscal quarter accounted for approximately 71% of our net revenues in the fiscal year ended February 2, 2008. In anticipation of increased sales activity during the fourth fiscal quarter, we incur significant additional expenses, including substantially higher inventory and staffing costs. If sales for the fourth fiscal quarter do not meet anticipated levels, then increased expenses may not be offset, which would adversely affect our financial condition. If we were to experience lower than expected sales during our fourth fiscal quarter, it would have a disproportionately large negative impact on our annual operating results and financial condition for that fiscal year. 10 Table of Contents Our operating results are volatile and difficult to predict. Our annual and quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors including those discussed in our SEC filings, many of which are outside of our control. Further, because our business is seasonal, our operating results may vary significantly from one quarter to the next as part of our normal business cycle or due to acquisitions or the timing of promotions. As a result, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of our future performance. It is likely that in some future quarter our operating results may fall below projections or the expectations of securities analysts and investors. We intend to undertake acquisitions to expand our business, which may pose risks to our business and dilute the ownership of our existing shareholders. A key component of our business strategy includes strengthening our competitive position and refining the customer experience on our websites through internal development and growth. However, we intend to selectively pursue strategic acquisitions of companies in our industry or in related industries. Integrating any newly acquired companies may be expensive and time-consuming. To finance any acquisition, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, and, in the case of equity financings, would result in dilution to our shareholders. Any such acquisition may involve a number of risks, including: • Financial risks, such as (1) potential liabilities of the acquired company; (2) costs associated with integrating acquired operations and businesses; (3) the dilutive effect of the issuance of additional equity securities; (4) the incurrence of debt; (5) the financial impact of valuing goodwill and other intangible assets involved in any acquisitions, potential future impairment write-downs of goodwill and the amortization of other intangible assets; (6) possible adverse tax and accounting effects; and (7) overpayment for the acquisition. • Operating risks, such as (1) the diversion of management’s attention to the integration of the businesses to be acquired; (2) the risk that the acquired businesses will fail to maintain the quality of services that we have historically provided; (3) the need to implement financial and other systems and add management resources; (4) the risk that key employees of the acquired businesses will leave after the acquisition; and (5) unforeseen difficulties in the acquired operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate any acquisitions or, if consummated, successfully integrate the operations and management of future acquisitions. If we are unable to attract and consummate acquisitions, our growth could be adversely impacted. We may not succeed in continuing to establish our brands, which would prevent us from acquiring customers and increasing our revenues. Since we have a limited operating history, a significant component of our business strategy is the continued establishment and promotion of the eToys, My Twinn, BabyUniverse, DreamtimeBaby, PoshTots, PoshLiving, PoshCravings, ePregnancy and BabyTV brands. Due to the highly-fragmented and competitive nature of the online market for toys, baby, toddler and maternity products, if we do not continue to establish our brands, we may fail to build the critical mass of customers required to substantially increase our revenues. Promoting and positioning our brands will depend largely on the success of our marketing and merchandising efforts and our ability to provide consistent, high quality customer experiences. To promote our brands, we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial expenses related to advertising, public relations and other marketing efforts. The failure of our brand promotion activities could adversely affect our ability to attract new customers and maintain customer relationships, and, as a result, substantially harm our financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We may need additional financing and may not be able to raise additional financing on favorable terms or at all, which could increase our costs, limit our ability to grow and dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. We anticipate that we may need to raise additional capital in the future to facilitate long-term expansion, to respond to competitive pressures or to respond to financial requirements. Since our inception, we have experienced negative cash flow from operations on a fiscal year basis and may experience negative cash flow from operations on a fiscal year basis in the future. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We may also be subject to high interest rates or substantial restrictive covenants. Any failure to obtain necessary capital on commercially reasonable terms could have severe consequences on our business. Further, an inability to obtain additional financing could require us to scale back, or fail to address opportunities for expansion or enhancement of, our operations. We have grown quickly and if we fail to manage our growth, our business will suffer. We have rapidly and significantly expanded our operations, and anticipate that further significant expansion, including the possible acquisition of third-party assets, technologies or businesses, will be required to address market opportunities and desired growth in our customer base. Any such investment or acquisition may further strain our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures. These difficulties could disrupt or make it more difficult to plan and forecast our business, distract our management and employees or increase our costs. Prior expansion has placed, and any future expansion is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, including integration of new personnel, the implantation of proper controls and systems in an efficient manner, or successfully integrate any assets, technologies or businesses that we may acquire, or if we acquire assets, technologies or business that do not prove complementary to us, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We experience intense competition. We operate in a highly competitive environment. We principally compete with a variety of big box discount stores, online retailers, specialty retailers and other catalog merchants that offer products similar to or the same as our products. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and/or loss of market share, any of which could seriously harm our net revenues and results of operations. We expect competition to intensify in the future because current and new competitors can enter our market with little difficulty and can launch new websites at a relatively low cost. We compete with a variety of other companies, including other online companies that include children’s and baby products as part of their product offerings, such as Amazon.com, eBay.com and Overstock.com. We also compete with traditional store-based toy, children’s and baby product retailers such as Toys “R”Us, Wal-Mart and Target. Most of the traditional store-based competitors also offer their products online. Additionally, some manufacturers of children’s and baby products currently sell some of their products directly online. Competition is principally based on product variety, quality and availability, price, convenience, advertising and promotion, customer support and service. Some of our competitors may have greater financial resources, lower merchandise acquisition costs, and lower operating expenses than our Company. Traditional store-based retailers also enable customers to see and feel products in a manner that is not possible over the Internet. Some of our competitors such as Toys “R”Us and Wal-Mart have significantly greater experience in selling children’s toys, video games, software, videos and music products. Many of our traditional store-based, catalog-based and online competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer or user bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater resources, particularly financial and marketing resources. Many of these competitors can devote substantially more resources to website development and catalog retailing than we can. In addition, large, well-established and well-financed entities may establish more robust online sales 12 Table of Contents operations in the future. Our competitors may be able to secure products from vendors on more favorable terms, provide popular products to which we do not have access, fulfill customer orders more efficiently and adopt more aggressive pricing or inventory availability policies than we can. Increased competition and lessening of brand loyalty is likely to result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and/or loss of market share, any of which could seriously harm our net sales and results of operations. In addition, the children’s products industries, including toys, video games, software, video, books, music and baby-oriented products, are intensely competitive. If we fail to compete successfully, we could face lower sales and may decide or be compelled to offer greater discounts to our customers, which could result in reducing our ability to become profitable. In order to increase revenues and to achieve, sustain or increase profitability, we must attract customers in a cost-effective manner. Our success depends on our ability to attract customers in a cost-effective manner. We have relationships with providers of online services, search engines, comparison shopping sites, directories and other websites and ecommerce businesses to provide content, advertising banners and other links that direct customers to our websites. We rely on these relationships as significant sources of traffic to our websites. Our agreements with these providers generally have terms of one year or less. If we are unable to develop or maintain these relationships on acceptable terms, our ability to attract new customers would be harmed. In addition, many of the parties with which we have online advertising arrangements could provide advertising services to other online or traditional retailers, including retailers with whom we compete. As a result, these parties may be reluctant to enter into or maintain relationships with us. Without these relationships, traffic to our websites could be reduced, which would substantially harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to rapidly respond to changes in our industry could result in loss of our competitiveness and could harm our financial condition and results of operations. The U.S. retail industry, the specialty retail industry in particular, and the online commerce sector are highly competitive, dynamic in nature and have undergone significant changes over the past several years and will likely continue to undergo significant changes. Our ability to anticipate and respond successfully to these changes is critical to our long-term growth and we cannot assure you that we will anticipate and respond effectively to changes in the retail industry and online commerce sectors. If we are unable to maintain or increase our market share or compete effectively in the retail gift market, our business, financial condition and operating results would be adversely affected. If we fail to offer a broad selection of innovative merchandise that consumers find attractive, our revenues could decline or fail to reach anticipated levels. In order to meet our strategic goals, we must successfully offer, on a continuous basis, a broad selection of appealing products. These products must satisfy the diverse tastes of our customers and potential customers. To be successful, our product offerings must be competitively priced, well made, innovative and attractive to a wide range of consumers whose preferences may change. We cannot predict with certainty that we will be successful in offering products that meet these requirements. If a wide range of consumers do not find our products attractive or if we are required to reduce our prices, our revenues and earnings may decline or fail to meet expected levels. If our license agreement with KB Holdings LLC or our strategic retail relationships with national retailers are terminated, our business may be adversely affected. We operate KBtoys.com under a long term license agreement with KB Holdings LLC. In addition we have established strategic retail relationships with the online stores of major national retailers, such as Sears, Amazon, Buy.com, Kmart, Macys, and QVC. If these arrangements are terminated or changed in a material way, our 13 Table of Contents business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. In addition, if the business of KB Toys or these major national retailers deteriorates and therefore the revenues we derive from these sites are reduced, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Failure to successfully manage or expand our fulfillment and distribution operation would have a material adverse effect on us. Our fulfillment and distribution operation is located in leased facilities in Blairs, Virginia. We have limited experience and have encountered difficulties in the past managing our fulfillment and distribution operations, and we may encounter difficulties managing our fulfillment and distribution operations in the future. If we are unable to manage successfully our fulfillment and distribution operations and to meet our customers’ expectations regarding personalization, presentation and delivery, our business, reputation, operations and financial condition could be seriously harmed. Further, any difficulty in managing our fulfillment and distribution operations could require us to find one or more third parties to provide these services for us. If we are required to engage one or more service providers, we could incur higher fulfillment expenses than anticipated or incur additional costs for balancing merchandise inventories among multiple fulfillment facilities. Further, we may need to expand and upgrade our fulfillment operations in the future to accommodate increases in customer orders, increased demand for personalized products or changes in available technology. If we fail to successfully manage, expand or make necessary upgrades to our fulfillment and distribution operations in a timely and cost-effective manner, it would have a material adverse effect on our business. If we do not manage our inventory levels successfully, our operating results may be adversely affected. We must maintain sufficient inventory levels to operate our business successfully. Rapidly changing trends in consumer tastes for gift items expose us to significant inventory risks, particularly during our critical fourth fiscal quarter when inventory levels are highest due to the holiday shopping season. Consumer preferences can change between the time we order a product and the time it is available for sale. We base our product selection on our projections of consumer tastes and preferences in a future period, and we cannot guarantee that our projections of consumer tastes and preferences will be accurate. In the event that one or more products do not achieve widespread consumer acceptance, we may be required to take significant inventory markdowns, which could reduce our net sales and gross margins. In addition, to the extent that demand for our products increases over time, we may be forced to increase inventory levels. Any such increase would require the use of additional working capital and subject us to additional inventory risks. In the past, some of our popular items were not stocked in quantities sufficient to meet the demand for such items, which likely led to missed sales opportunities. Our failure to stock sufficient quantities of popular products would cause us to miss revenue opportunities and could cause our customers to become dissatisfied and look to our competitors for their purchases, which could also harm our business and reputation. If we fail to stock popular products in sufficient quantities or if we overstock products, our business, financial condition and operating results would be affected adversely. We face the risk of inventory shrinkage. We are subject to the risk of inventory loss and theft. Although we believe that the levels of inventory shrinkage that we have suffered in the past are within an acceptable range, we cannot assure you that incidences of inventory loss and theft will not increase in the future or that the security measures we have taken in the past will effectively address the problem of inventory theft. If we were to suffer higher rates of inventory shrinkage or incur increased security costs to combat inventory theft, our financial condition could be affected adversely. We may have difficulty in product sourcing. Our performance depends, in part, on our ability to purchase our merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. We purchase our merchandise from numerous foreign and domestic manufacturers and importers. We have no contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products, and any vendor could change the terms upon which they sell to us or discontinue selling to us at any time. We may not be 14 Table of Contents able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on terms acceptable to us in the future. Better than expected sales demand may also lead to customer backorders and lower in-stock positions of our merchandise. For the fiscal year ended February 2, 2008, our top 20 vendors worldwide, based on our purchase volume in dollars, represented approximately 50% of the total products we purchased. Our inability to acquire suitable merchandise on acceptable terms or the loss of one or more key vendors could have a negative effect on our business and operating results, unless and until alternative supply arrangements are secured. We may not be able to develop relationships with new vendors, and products from alternative sources, if any, may be of a lesser quality and/or more expensive than those we currently purchase. Additionally, some of our competitors are manufacturers from whom we source product and our competitors may have stronger relationships with the same vendors or have a greater number of exclusive relationships than we do. In addition, our vendors are subject to certain risks, including product recalls, quality controls, labor disputes, union organizing activities, financial liquidity, inclement weather, natural disasters, and general economic and political conditions, that could limit our vendors’ ability to provide us with quality merchandise on a timely basis and at a price that is commercially acceptable. For these or other reasons, one or more of our vendors might not adhere to our quality control standards, and we might not identify the deficiency before merchandise ships to our customers. In addition, our vendors may have difficulty adjusting to our changing demands and growing business. Our vendors’ failure to manufacture or import quality merchandise in a timely and effective manner could damage our reputation and brands, and could lead to an increase in customer litigation against us and an attendant increase in our routine litigation costs. Further, any merchandise that does not meet quality standards could become subject to a recall, which would damage our reputation and brands, and harm our business. Our inability to obtain commercial insurance at acceptable prices might have a negative impact on our business. Insurance costs continue to be volatile, affected by natural catastrophes, fear of terrorism and financial irregularities and fraud at publicly traded companies. We believe that commercial insurance coverage is prudent for risk management, and insurance costs may increase substantially in the future. In addition, for certain types or levels of risk, such as risks associated with natural disasters or terrorist attacks, we may determine that we cannot obtain commercial insurance at acceptable prices. Any changes could have a considerable effect upon future claim costs and currently recorded liabilities and could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. International events could delay or prevent the delivery of products to our warehouse. A significant portion of the products sold by us are manufactured outside of the United States, primarily in Asia. As a result, any event causing a disruption of imports, including the imposition of import restrictions or trade restrictions in the form of tariffs, “antidumping” duties, acts of war, terrorism, shipping problems, or diseases such as the bird flu, could increase the cost and reduce the supply of products available to us, which could, in turn, negatively affect our sales and profitability. In addition, over the past few years, port-labor issues, rail congestion, and trucking shortages have had an impact on all direct importers. Although we attempt to anticipate and manage such situations, both our sales and profitability could be adversely impacted by such developments in the future. International factors could negatively affect our business. We are subject to the risks inherent in conducting our business across national boundaries, many of which are outside of our control. These risks include the following: • Economic downturns; • Currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations; 15 Table of Contents • Changes in governmental policy, including those relating to taxation; • International military, political, diplomatic and terrorist incidents; • Government instability; • Nationalization of foreign assets; and • Tariffs and governmental trade policies. We cannot ensure that one or more of these factors will not negatively affect our business and financial performance. If we offer new product categories that do not achieve market acceptance, our brand and reputation could be damaged and we could fail to attract new customers. Any new product category that is launched or acquired by us, which is not favorably received by consumers could damage our brands or reputation. This damage could impair our ability to attract new customers, which could result in our net sales failing to reach expectations. The expansion of our business to include any other new product category may require significant additional expenses, and may strain our management, financial and operational resources. This type of expansion would also subject us to increased inventory risk. Our operating results could suffer if we fail to offer or sell sufficient quantities of proprietary products. Proprietary products generally carry higher gross margins than widely available products. Our primary proprietary products are customized dolls and related products sold by our My Twinn business which are designed in-house based on specifications provided by our customers. If we are unable for any reason to design or source popular proprietary products or if we are unable to sell sufficient quantities of proprietary products during any future period, our operating results will be adversely affected and we may fail to achieve our gross margin objectives. Our facilities and systems are vulnerable to natural disasters and other unexpected problems. The occurrence of a natural disaster or other unexpected problem could damage our reputation and brand and reduce our net sales. We are vulnerable to natural disasters and other unanticipated problems that are beyond our control. Our office facilities in Denver, Colorado, Pittsfield, Massachusetts and Blairs, Virginia house substantially all of our product development and information systems. Our third-party website hosting facilities located in Denver, Colorado house substantially all of our computer and communications hardware systems. Our distribution facilities located in Virginia house substantially all of our product inventory. A natural disaster or extreme weather or other comparable events that are beyond our control could cause interruptions or delays in our business and loss of data or render us unable to accept and fulfill customer orders. Any such interruptions or delays at these facilities would reduce our net sales. In addition, our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquakes and similar events. We have no formal disaster recovery plan and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. In addition, the failure by the third-party facilities to provide the data communications capacity required by us, as a result of human error, natural disaster or other operational disruptions, could result in interruptions in our service. The occurrence of any or all of these events could damage our reputation and brand and impair our business. Delivery of our merchandise could be delayed or disrupted by factors beyond our control, and we could lose customers as a result. As timely gift delivery is essential to our customers’ satisfaction, any delay, disruption or inaccuracy in order, fulfillment and delivery for any reason, particularly during the holiday shopping season, could cause us to 16 Table of Contents lose customers and negatively affect our business and reputation. In addition, we rely upon third-party carriers for timely delivery of our product shipments. As a result, we are subject to carrier disruptions and delays due to factors that are beyond our control, including employee strikes and inclement weather. Our computer and communications hardware and software systems are vulnerable to damage and interruption, which could harm our business. Our ability to receive and fulfill orders successfully through our websites is critical to our success and largely depends upon the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events (such as natural disasters or terrorist attacks), and errors in usage by our employees and customers. The uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems may also be dependent upon the continued performance of third party vendors and/or service providers with whom we have contracted. In the event that one of our third party service providers fails for any reason to perform its obligations in a timely or efficient manner, or at all, our operations could be interrupted or adversely affected or we could be required to incur additional, unanticipated costs. Further, our servers are located at the facilities of, and hosted by, a third-party service provider in Denver, Colorado. In the event that this service provider experiences any interruption in its operations or ceases operations for any reason or if we are unable to agree on satisfactory terms for a continued hosting relationship, we could be forced to enter into a relationship with another service provider or take over hosting responsibilities ourselves. We cannot assure you that, in the event it became necessary to switch hosting facilities, we would be successful in finding an alternative service provider on acceptable terms or in hosting the computer servers ourselves. Any significant loss of data or interruption in the availability or functionality of our websites, or our sales processing, fulfillment or communications systems for any reason, particularly an interruption during the holiday season, could seriously harm our business and operating results. Further, any significant additional expenses incurred as a result of any failure by a third party to perform obligations in a timely or efficient manner or any significant costs associated with finding a new vendor or service provider or taking over responsibilities ourselves would have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. If we do not successfully expand our websites and order processing systems or respond to rapid technological changes, we could lose customers and our net revenues could decline. If we fail to upgrade our websites in a timely manner to accommodate higher volumes of traffic, our websites’ performance could suffer and we may lose customers. In addition, if we fail to expand the computer systems that we use to process and ship customer orders and process customer payments, we may not be able to fulfill customer orders successfully. As a result, we could lose customers and our net revenues could be reduced. Further, to remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our online stores. The Internet and the online commerce industry are subject to rapid technological change. If competitors introduce new features and website enhancements, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing websites and systems may become obsolete or unattractive. Developing and enhancing our websites and other systems entails significant technical and business risks. We may use new technologies ineffectively or we may fail to adapt our websites, our transaction processing systems and our computer network to meet customer requirements or emerging industry standards. If we are unsuccessful in upgrading our systems to accommodate higher traffic or developing or implementing new technologies that enable us to meet evolving industry standards and remain competitive, our operating results would be seriously harmed. The loss of our senior management or other key personnel could harm our current and future operations and prospects. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued services and on the performance of our senior management and other key personnel. Although we have entered into employment arrangements with Michael J. Wagner, our Chief Executive Officer, and many members of our senior management, no assurances can be given 17 Table of Contents that we will be able to retain Mr. Wagner or other members of our senior management. Our performance also depends on our ability to retain and motivate other key employees. The loss of the services of Mr. Wagner or other key employees for any reason could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate other highly skilled technical, managerial, editorial, merchandising, marketing and customer sales and service personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense and we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully attract, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. Our failure to attract and retain the necessary technical, managerial, editorial, merchandising, marketing and customer sales and service personnel would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, competition is particularly intense for highly-qualified senior officers in our industry, and a variety of factors could make it difficult for us to attract the right candidates in the near term or at all. In the event that we cannot hire and retain qualified senior officers in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on seasonal and temporary employees during periods of peak activity and any failure by such employees to adequately perform their jobs could adversely affect our operations. We depend on temporary and seasonal employees to adequately staff our fulfillment facility and customer sales and service facilities during busy periods such as the holiday shopping season, including individuals responsible for gift personalization and packaging and responding to consumer inquiries. Temporary employees may not have the same levels of training or commitment as full-time employees and, as a result, may be more likely to provide unsatisfactory service. We cannot assure you that we will continue to receive adequate assistance from our temporary employees, or that we will continue to have access to sufficient numbers of competent temporary employees on a cost-effective basis, particularly during the critical holiday shopping season. If we are unable to adequately staff our fulfillment and customer sales and service facilities, particularly during the holiday shopping season and other periods of increased activity or if our temporary and seasonal employees do not provide satisfactory service, our operations and sales during such period could suffer, and our reputation could be harmed. Increased merchandise returns and a failure to accurately predict merchandise returns could harm our business. As part of our customer service commitment, we maintain a merchandise return policy that allows recipients to return merchandise received from us if they are dissatisfied with those items. We make allowances for merchandise returns in our financial statements based on historical return rates and other factors. We cannot assure you that actual merchandise returns will not significantly exceed our allowances for returns. In addition, because our allowances are based on historical return rates, we cannot assure you that the introduction of new merchandise in our catalogs, the introduction of new catalogs, increased sales over the Internet, changes in our merchandise mix, concerns over product recalls, changes in the habits of our gift item recipients, or other factors will not cause actual returns to exceed return allowances, perhaps significantly. Any increase in merchandise returns that exceed our allowances would affect our business adversely. Also, returned merchandise that is personalized or damaged likely cannot be re-sold, creating non-recoverable inventory costs which detrimentally affects our operating results. If we are unable to successfully manage the costs of our catalog operations or our catalogs fail to produce sales at satisfactory levels it could adversely affect our business. Our catalogs have been an important tool for the acquisition and retention of customers. We believe that the success of our catalogs as a cost-effective marketing tool depends on the following factors: • effective management of costs associated with the production and distribution of our catalogs; 18 Table of Contents • achievement of adequate response rates to our mailings; • displaying a mix of merchandise in our catalogs that is attractive to our customers; • production of aesthetically appealing catalogs; and • timely delivery of catalog mailings to our customers Catalog production and mailings entail substantial paper, printing, postage and human labor costs. Increases in the costs of producing and distributing catalogs, including increases in postage rates or paper, photography, or printing costs, may reduce the margin on sales derived from our catalogs. The U.S. Postal Service is likely to increase its postage rates in the future and other delivery services that we utilize to deliver our products also will likely raise their rates in the future, which could significantly increase the aggregate cost of mailing our catalogs. In addition, response rates to our mailings and, as a result, revenues generated by each mailing, are affected by factors such as constantly changing consumer preferences and our ability to include a product assortment that satisfies those preferences, economic conditions, the timing and mix of catalog mailings, the timely delivery by the postal system of our catalog mailings, product recalls, and changes in our merchandise mix, several or all of which may be outside of our control. In recent periods, we have experienced slower growth in revenues from our catalog channel than in our online channels and we expect this trend towards slower catalog growth to continue. If we were to experience an increase in the costs associated with producing or delivering our catalogs or a delay in distributing our catalogs or if our catalogs fail to produce sales at satisfactory levels, our operating results would be adversely affected. We are dependent on the success of our advertising and marketing efforts which are costly and may not achieve desired results. Our revenues depend on our ability to advertise and market our products effectively through our catalogs and other advertising and marketing efforts. If we do not successfully advertise and market our products, our operating results will be significantly and adversely affected. Increases in the cost of advertising and marketing, including paper and postage costs, the costs of online marketing and the costs of complying with applicable regulations, may limit our ability to advertise and market our business in a cost-effective manner. In addition, individuals are increasingly using software programs that block certain email marketing campaigns, and certain federal and state laws and regulations may restrict our ability to effectively utilize email as a marketing tool. If we decrease our advertising, or marketing activities, if the effectiveness of such activities is diminished due to increased costs, restrictions enacted by regulatory agencies or for any other reason, or if our current advertising strategy does not yield anticipated results, our future operating results could be adversely affected. The shopping comparison portals on which we list our products (and through which we currently generate a significant percentage of our customer orders) may alter the terms of their merchant agreements at will, exposing us to a number of risks, including higher fees and an increased challenge of gaining prominent placement of our products on these portals. By virtue of the listing of our products on the various shopping comparison portals through which we currently generate a significant percentage of our customer orders, we are subject to the terms and conditions of such portals’ merchant and similar agreements. These agreements differ from one shopping comparison portal to another, but, in general, they provide that the comparison shopping portals can freely alter the terms and conditions of such agreements. This exposes us to a number of potential risks, including the risk that any or all of these portals may: • implement policies that prohibit our multiple website marketing strategy; • raise the minimum fees that some of these portals impose; • alter the bases for a merchant’s initial or default listing on certain of these portals, which currently are dependent on such variables as the product price points or the quality of the merchant’s customer review ratings. 19 Table of Contents Changes in the terms and conditions of our merchant and similar agreements with the shopping comparison portals on which we list our products could change or limit our marketing strategies, which may, in turn, disadvantage us relative to our competitors, particularly those with greater financial resources, increase our operating expenses and otherwise harm our business. If we are unable to provide satisfactory customer service, we could lose customers. Our ability to provide satisfactory levels of customer service depends, to a large degree, on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our call center. Any material disruption or slowdown in our order processing systems resulting from labor disputes, telephone or Internet failures, power or service outages, natural disasters or other events could make it difficult or impossible to provide adequate customer service and support. Further, we may be unable to attract and retain adequate numbers of competent customer service representatives, which is essential in creating a favorable interactive customer experience. If we are unable to continually provide adequate staffing for our customer service operations, our reputation could be seriously harmed. In addition, we cannot assure you that email and telephone call volumes will not exceed our present system capacities. If this occurs, we could experience delays in placing orders, responding to customer inquiries and addressing customer concerns. Although we are currently implementing plans to expand its capacity, our customer sales and service facility currently accommodates customer sales and service representatives at close to its capacity during our peak sales period. Because our success depends in large part on keeping our customers satisfied, any failure to provide high levels of customer sales and service or adequately staff our customer sales and service operations would likely impair our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. If the protection of our trademarks and proprietary rights is inadequate, our brand and reputation could be impaired and we could lose customers. We regard our copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade dress, trade secrets and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. We rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, partners, suppliers, and others to protect our proprietary rights. Nevertheless, the steps we take to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate. Further, effective trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we may sell our products and offer our services or whose residents have access to our websites presently or in the future. In addition, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. Therefore, we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. If we are unable to protect or preserve the value of our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets or other proprietary rights for any reason, our business could be harmed. We rely on technologies that we license from third parties that may not be available to us in the future. We also rely substantially on technologies that we license from third parties. These licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, in the future. As a result, we may be required to develop or obtain substitute technology of lower quality or at greater cost, or we may be prevented from providing features or functionality on our websites that our customers and potential customers desire, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Intellectual property claims against us could be costly and could impair our business. Other parties may assert infringement or unfair competition claims against us. In the past, we have been subject to claims or received notices from third parties alleging that our trademarks or product offerings infringe proprietary rights held by them. From time to time we also receive claims and become a defendant in lawsuits 20 Table of Contents alleging that our Internet marketing program and website operations infringe patents held by third parties. We cannot predict whether third parties will assert claims of infringement against us, or whether any past, present or future claims will prevent us from offering popular products or operating our business as planned. If we are forced to defend against third-party infringement claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, we could face expensive and time-consuming litigation, which could distract technical and management personnel, or result in product shipment delays. If an infringement claim is determined against us, we may be required to pay monetary damages or ongoing royalties. Further, as a result of infringement claims either against us or against those who license technology to us, we may be required to develop non-infringing intellectual property or enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may be unavailable on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If a third-party successfully asserts an infringement claim against us and we are required to pay monetary damages or royalties or we are unable to develop suitable non-infringing alternatives or license the infringed or similar intellectual property on reasonable terms on a timely basis, it could significantly harm our business. We may be subject to litigation proceedings that could adversely affect our business. In addition to the litigation risks mentioned above, it is possible that, in the course of our business, we could be subject to legal claims or proceedings involving consumer, employment, stockholder, contract or other matters. If we are required to defend against a legal claim or deem it necessary or advisable to initiate a legal proceeding to protect our rights, the expense and distraction of such a claim or proceeding, whether or not resolved in our favor, could adversely affect our business. Further, if a claim or proceeding were resolved against us or if we were to settle any such dispute, we could be required to pay damages or refrain from certain activities, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. Toy sales may be negatively impacted by the trend toward age compression. Toy sales may be negatively impacted by “age compression,” which is the acceleration of children leaving traditional play categories at increasingly younger ages for more sophisticated products such as cell phones, DVD players, CD players, MP3 devices, and other electronic products. The age compression pattern tends to decrease consumer demand for traditional toys. To the extent that we are unable to offer consumers more sophisticated products or that these more sophisticated items are also available at a wider range of retailers than our traditional competitors, our sales and profitability could be detrimentally affected and we could experience excess inventories. Sales of video games tend to be cyclical and may result in fluctuations in our results of operations. Sales of video games, which accounted for approximately 7% of our sales for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2008, have been cyclical in nature in response to the introduction and maturation of new technology. Following the introduction of new video game platforms, sales of these platforms and related software and accessories generally increase due to initial demand, while sales of older platforms and related products generally decrease as customers migrate toward the new platforms. New video game platforms have historically been introduced approximately every five years. If video game platform manufacturers fail to develop new hardware platforms, our sales of video game products could decline. Our business exposes us to personal injury and product liability claims which could result in adverse publicity and harm to our brand and our results of operations. We are potentially subject to product liability claims for the products that we sell. While our purchase orders generally require the manufacturer to indemnify us against any product liability claims, there is a risk that if the manufacturer becomes insolvent or if proper indemnification provisions are not in effect at the time we seek indemnification then we would not be indemnified. Any personal injury claim made against us or, in the event the manufacturer was insolvent, any product liability claim made against us, whether or not it has merit, could be 21 Table of Contents time consuming, result in costly litigation expenses and damages, result in adverse publicity or damage to our brand and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are potentially subject to additional product liability claims for all products that are sold exclusively by us and carry our brand name. Our My Twinn business works on a cooperative basis with various manufacturing companies to produce proprietary products carrying the My Twinn brand. Although these products are manufactured by other companies, some of the products, specifically the My Twinn® doll, are assembled in the U.S. by My Twinn. Additionally, our eToys Direct business has begun offering its own proprietary products that will carry the eToys Direct brand. We could be subject to additional product liability claims and unable to obtain indemnification from the companies that manufacture these products. Our success is tied in large part to the continued use of the Internet by a large number of consumers. Our future revenues and profits, if any, substantially depend upon the continued widespread use of the Internet as an effective medium of commerce and communication. Factors which could reduce the widespread use of the Internet include: • actual or perceived lack of privacy protection; • actual or perceived lack of security of credit card information; • possible disruptions or other damage to the Internet or telecommunications infrastructure; • increased governmental regulation and taxation; and • decreased use of personal computers. Any decrease or less than anticipated growth in Internet usage could significantly harm our business. The security risks of online commerce, including credit card fraud, may discourage customers from purchasing goods from us. In order for the online commerce market to develop successfully, we and other market participants must be able to transmit confidential information, including credit card information, securely over public networks. Third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of customer transaction data. Any breach could cause consumers to lose confidence in the security of our websites and choose not to purchase from us. Although we take the security of our systems very seriously, we cannot guarantee that our security measures will effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to our information and information of our customers. If a person is able to circumvent our security measures, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations. Any security breach could expose us to risks of data loss, litigation and liability and could seriously disrupt our operations and harm our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business. We do not carry insurance against the risk of credit card fraud, so the failure to prevent fraudulent credit card transactions could reduce our net revenues and gross margin. We may suffer losses as a result of orders placed with fraudulent credit card data even though the associated financial institution approved payment of the orders. Under current credit card practices, we may be liable for fraudulent credit card transactions because we do not obtain a cardholder’s signature. If we are unable to detect or control credit card fraud, our liability for these transactions could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Existing or future government regulation could harm our business. We are subject to the same federal, state and local laws as other companies conducting business on the Internet, including consumer protection laws, user privacy laws and laws and regulations prohibiting unfair and deceptive trade practices. In particular, under federal and state financial privacy laws and regulations, we must provide notice to our customers of our policies and practices regarding non-public personal information that we collect and use, including whether we share that information with third parties, must provide advance notice of 22 Table of Contents any changes to our privacy policies and must inform our customers about how they can review and/or correct the non-public personal information we possess about them. Further, the growth of online commerce could result in more stringent consumer protection laws that impose additional compliance burdens on us. Today there are an increasing number of laws specifically directed at the conduct of business on the Internet. Moreover, due to the increasing use of the Internet, many additional laws and regulations relating to the Internet are being debated at the state and federal levels. These laws and regulations could cover issues such as freedom of expression, pricing, consumer privacy, fraud, quality of products and services, taxation, advertising, adult-oriented content, defamation, intellectual property rights, identity theft and information security. Applicability of existing laws to the Internet relating to issues such as trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property issues, taxation, libel, obscenity and personal privacy could also harm our business. For example, United States and international laws regulate our ability to use customer information and to develop, buy and sell mailing lists. Many of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet, and do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by the Internet. Those laws that reference the Internet, such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and the recent federal law regulating the commercial use of e-mail (popularly known as “CAN-SPAM”), are only beginning to be interpreted by the courts and their applicability and reach are therefore uncertain. The restrictions imposed by, and costs of complying with, current and possible future laws and regulations related to our business could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In 2003, the California legislature enacted new sections of the Civil Code that require any company that does business in California and possesses computerized data, in unencrypted form, containing certain personal information about California residents to (i) provide prompt notice to such residents if that personal information was, or is reasonably believed to have been, obtained by an unauthorized person such as a computer hacker and (ii) implement and maintain reasonable security procedures and practices to protect that information from unauthorized access, destruction, use, modification or disclosure. The law defines personal information as an individual’s name together with one or more of that individual’s social security number, driver’s license number, California identification card number, credit card number, debit card number, or bank account information, including any necessary passwords or access codes. In 2004, the California legislature enacted another new section of the Civil Code that requires any company that owns or licenses personal information about California residents to implement and maintain “reasonable security procedures and practices” to protect that information from unauthorized access, destruction, use, modification or disclosure. The law also requires that any company that discloses personal information about California residents to a nonaffiliated third party must require by contract that that party also implement and maintain “reasonable security procedures and practices.” As our customers, including California residents, generally provide information to us that is covered by this definition of personal information in connection with their purchases via our websites, our business has been affected by these new laws. As a result, we will need to ensure that all computerized data containing the previously-described personal information is sufficiently encrypted or that we have implemented appropriate measures to protect the integrity and security of that information and to notify our California customers of any unauthorized access or misappropriation. In addition, the code section requiring us to implement and maintain “reasonable security procedures and practices” provides no guidelines as to what may be deemed reasonable but leaves that determination to future court cases. This introduces a considerable measure of uncertainty to our compliance efforts. Such measures will likely increase the costs of doing business and, if we fail to implement appropriate safeguards or we fail to detect and provide prompt notice of unauthorized access as required by the new law, we could be subject to potential claims for damages and other remedies available to California residents whose information was improperly accessed or, under certain circumstances, the State of California could seek to enjoin our business operations until appropriate corrective actions have been taken. While we intend to comply fully with this law, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in avoiding all potential liability or disruption of business resulting from this law. If we were required to pay any significant amount of money in satisfaction of claims under this law, or any similar law enacted by another jurisdiction, or if we were forced to cease our 23 Table of Contents business operations for any length of time as a result of our inability to comply fully with any such law, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Further, complying with the applicable notice requirements in the event of a security breach could result in significant costs. Further, federal and state laws place restrictions on email marketing that could make it more difficult for us to acquire new customers, or to obtain repeat purchases from prior customers through inexpensive electronic marketing methods. The federal CAN-SPAM Act, for example, requires every commercial e-mail message to include an “opt-out” mechanism and requires all senders to comply with their recipients’ “opt out” requests. It also requires senders to label all commercial e-mail messages as advertisements or solicitations. These requirements may reduce the effectiveness of our e-mail marketing activities. If any current or future law requires us to eliminate or curtail our email marketing efforts, our ability to obtain new customers and increase revenues could be adversely affected or we could incur greater marketing costs, either of which could harm our business. While we intend to comply with applicable law regarding email marketing, there is no assurance that we will not incur fines or other liability as a result of an inadvertent violation of such a law. In addition, because our websites are accessible over the Internet in multiple states and other countries, we may be subject to their laws and regulations or may be required to qualify to do business in those locations. We are qualified to do business only in Colorado, at present, and certain of our operating subsidiaries are qualified to do business in Massachusetts and Virginia. Our failure to qualify in a state or country where we are required to do so could subject us to taxes and penalties and we could be subject to legal actions and liability in those jurisdictions. The restrictions or penalties imposed by, and costs of complying with, these laws and regulations could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our ability to enforce contracts and other obligations in states and countries in which we are not qualified to do business could be hampered, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, an important aspect of the new Internet-focused laws is that where federal legislation is absent, states have begun to enact consumer-protective laws of their own and these can vary significantly from state to state (and country to country). Thus, it is difficult for any company to be sufficiently aware of the requirements of all applicable state laws and it is also difficult or impossible for any company to comply fully with the sometimes inconsistent standards and requirements set by various states. In addition to the consequences that could result from violating one or more state laws (or the laws of any other country), the costs of attempting to comply could be considerable. Our net sales could decrease if we become subject to sales and other taxes. If one or more states or any foreign country successfully asserts that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of our products, our net sales and results of operations could be harmed. We do not currently collect sales or other similar taxes for physical shipments of goods into states other than Colorado, Massachusetts and Virginia. However, one or more local, state or foreign jurisdictions may seek to impose sales tax collection obligations on us. In addition, any new operation in states outside of Colorado, Massachusetts and Virginia could subject our shipments in such states to state sales taxes under current or future laws. If we become obligated to collect sales taxes, we will need to update our system that processes customers’ orders to calculate the appropriate sales tax for each customer order and to remit the collected sales taxes to the appropriate authorities. These upgrades will increase our operating expenses. In addition, our customers may be discouraged from purchasing products from us because they have to pay sales tax, causing our net sales to decrease. As a result, we may need to lower prices to retain these customers. Laws or regulations relating to privacy and data protection may adversely affect the growth of our Internet business or our marketing efforts. We are subject to increasing regulation relating to privacy and the use of personal user information. For example, we are subject to various telemarketing laws that regulate the manner in which we may solicit future suppliers and customers. Such regulations, along with increased governmental or private enforcement, may 24 Table of Contents increase the cost of growing our business. California has enacted several new laws that require all commercial website operators that collect personal information about California residents to adopt and post a privacy policy that meets certain specified criteria. Any failure to comply with this new law could subject us to civil penalties, injunctions, and/or lawsuits. As mentioned above, California enacted new sections of its Civil Code that require companies maintaining personal information about California residents to take reasonable measures to protect against identity theft and other unauthorized uses of such information and to notify California residents in the event that such information has been (or is likely to have been) misappropriated, inappropriately modified or destroyed. The new laws provide no standards for satisfactory compliance, so it is impossible to know for certain what steps we need to take to comply with them. Compliance could require us to implement procedures that would require us to change the way we do business and such procedures may be expensive. In addition, several other states have enacted or proposed legislation that would limit the uses of personal user information gathered online or require online services to establish privacy policies. The Federal Trade Commission has adopted regulations regarding the collection and use of personal identifying information obtained from children under 13 years of age. Bills proposed in Congress would extend online privacy protections to adults. Moreover, legislation in the United States and existing laws in other countries require companies to establish procedures to notify users of privacy and security policies, obtain consent from users for collection and use of personal information, and/or provide users with the ability to access, correct and delete personal information stored by companies. These data protection regulations and enforcement efforts may restrict our ability to collect demographic and personal information from users, which could be costly or harm our marketing efforts. Further, any violation of privacy or data protection laws and regulations may subject us to fines, penalties and damages and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to liability for the content that we publish. As a publisher of catalogs and online content, we face potential liability for defamation, negligence, intellectual property infringement, or other claims based on the information and other content contained in our catalogs and websites. In the past, parties have brought these types of claims and sometimes successfully litigated them against online services. If we incur liability for our catalog or online content, our financial condition could be affected adversely and our reputation could suffer. The market price of our common stock may experience substantial fluctuations for reasons over which we have little control. Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Market. The stock price and the share trading volume for companies in the retail sales industry is subject to significant volatility. Both company-specific and industry-wide developments, as well as changes to the overall condition of the US economy and stock market, may cause this volatility. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate up or down substantially based on a variety of factors, including the following: • future announcements concerning us, our competitors, and the companies with whom we have relationships or the online market for baby, toddler and maternity products; • trends in the toy and baby products industries; • changes in operating results from quarter to quarter; • sales of stock by insiders; • changes in government regulations; • changes in estimates by analysts; • news reports relating to trends in our markets; • the seasonal nature of the retail sales industry; 25 Table of Contents • acquisitions and financings in our industry; and • the overall volatility of the stock market. Furthermore, stock prices for many companies fluctuate widely for reasons that may be unrelated to their operating results. These fluctuations, coupled with changes in our results of operations and general economic, political and market conditions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 