D. Risk Factors Our business faces certain risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business. If any of the events or circumstances described as risks below or elsewhere in this annual report actually occurs, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. There may not be an active market for our shares, which may cause our shares to trade at lower prices and make it difficult to sell your shares. We only recently became a public company. We cannot assure you that an active trading market for our shares will develop or be sustained. We cannot predict at this time how actively our shares will trade in the public market, if at all, or whether the price of our shares in the public market will reflect our actual financial performance. The price of our shares may be volatile. The price of our shares may be volatile, and may fluctuate due to factors such as: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in quarterly and annual results; • mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry; • market conditions in the industry; • changes in government regulation; • fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and earnings and those of its publicly held competitors; • shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecasted by securities analysts; • announcements concerning us or our competitors; and • the general state of the securities markets. Our principals, either directly or indirectly, control approximately 71% of our outstanding common stock and effectively control the outcome of matters on which our shareholders are entitled to vote, including the election of directors and other significant corporate actions. Our principal shareholders own approximately 71% of our outstanding common stock. While our principals have no agreement, arrangement or understanding relating to the voting of their shares, they will effectively control the outcome of matters on which our shareholders are entitled to vote, including the election of directors and other significant corporate actions. The interests of these shareholders may be different from your interests. -3- Table of Contents Our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws contain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent (1) an acquisition of our company and/or (2) the removal of incumbent directors and officers. Our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws contain certain anti-takeover provisions. These provisions include blank check preferred stock, a classified board of directors, a supermajority director voting requirement to change the number of directors, the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors, advance written notice for shareholder nominations for directors, removal of directors only for cause, supermajority voting requirements for removal of directors by either the shareholders or the directors, advance written notice of shareholder proposals for the removal of directors and supermajority voting requirements for shareholder action with respect to By-laws. These provisions, either individually or in the aggregate, may discourage, delay or prevent (1) an acquisition of our company by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise, that a shareholder may consider in its best interest and (2) the removal of incumbent directors and officers. The cyclical nature of the shipping industry may lead to volatile changes in freight rates and vessel values, which may reduce our revenues and net income. We are an independent shipping company that operates in the drybulk shipping market. Our profitability is dependent upon the freight rates we are able to charge. The supply of and demand for shipping capacity strongly influences freight rates. The demand for shipping capacity is determined primarily by the demand for the type of commodities carried and the distance that those commodities must be moved by sea. The demand for commodities is affected by, among other things, world and regional economic and political conditions (including developments in international trade, fluctuations in industrial and agricultural production and armed conflicts), environmental concerns, weather patterns, and changes in seaborne and other transportation costs. The size of the existing fleet in a particular market, the number of new vessel deliveries, the scrapping of older vessels and the number of vessels out of active service (i.e., laid-up, dry-docked, awaiting repairs or otherwise not available for hire), determines the supply of shipping capacity, which is measured by the amount of suitable tonnage available to carry cargo. In addition to the prevailing and anticipated freight rates, factors that affect the rate of newbuilding, scrapping and laying-up include newbuilding prices, secondhand vessel values in relation to scrap prices, costs of bunkers and other operating costs, costs associated with classification society surveys, normal maintenance and insurance coverage, the efficiency and age profile of the existing fleet in the market and government and industry regulation of maritime transportation practices, particularly environmental protection laws and regulations. These factors influencing the supply of and demand for shipping capacity are outside of our control, and we cannot predict the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions. Some of these factors may have a negative impact on our revenues and net income. The market value of our vessels can fluctuate significantly. The market value of our vessels may increase or decrease depending on the following factors: • economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry in general; • supply of drybulk vessels; • demand for drybulk vessels; -4- Table of Contents • types and sizes of vessels; • other modes of transportation; • cost of newbuildings; • new regulatory requirements from governments or self-regulated organizations; and • prevailing level of charter rates. Due to the fact that the market value of our vessels may fluctuate significantly, we may incur losses when we sell vessels, which may adversely affect our earnings. In addition, any determination that a vessel’s remaining useful life and earnings requires an impairment of its value on our financial statements could result in a charge against our earnings and a reduction in our shareholders’ equity. If for any reason we sell our vessels at a time when prices have fallen, the sale may be less than such vessel’s carrying amount on our financial statements, and we would incur a loss and a reduction in earnings. Charter rates, which in the international drybulk shipping industry had reached historic highs in the second quarter of 2005, may not increase as rapidly or may decline as a result of increased capacity and slowing worldwide economic growth, thereby reducing our future profitability. Charter rates in the international drybulk shipping industry, which had reached record highs in the second quarter of 2005, decreased during the first quarter of 2006. We anticipate that the future demand for our drybulk carriers and drybulk charter rates will be dependent upon continued economic growth in China, India and the world economy, seasonal and regional changes in demand, and changes to the capacity of the world fleet. Certain economic indicators reflect slowing growth in China, India and elsewhere. The capacity of the world fleet has increased. Adverse industry, economic, political, social or other developments could also decrease the amount and/or profitability of our business and materially reduce our revenues and net income. The factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. Some of the factors that influence demand for vessel capacity include: • supply and demand for drybulk commodities; • global and regional economic conditions; • the distance drybulk commodities are to be moved by sea; and • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. Some of the factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: • the number of newbuilding deliveries; • the scrapping rate of older vessels; -5- Table of Contents • changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful life of vessels; • the number of vessels that are laid-up; and • changes in global drybulk commodity production. An economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could materially reduce the amount and/or profitability of our business. A significant number of the port calls made by our vessels involve the loading or discharging of raw materials and semi-finished products in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, a negative change in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, but particularly in China or India, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. In particular, in recent years, China has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product. We cannot assure you that such growth will be sustained or that the Chinese economy will not experience contraction in the future. Moreover, any slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union or certain Asian countries may adversely effect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our revenues and net income, as well as our future prospects, would likely be materially reduced by an economic downturn in any of these countries. We rely on spot charters. The rates on spot charters are very competitive and volatile, which can result in decreased revenues if spot charter rates decline. Our vessels have most recently been spot chartered, which makes our revenues subject to greater fluctuation. In the future, we may continue to spot charter these vessels or any newly acquired vessels. The spot charter market is highly competitive and rates within this market are subject to volatile fluctuations, while longer-term period time charters provide income at pre-determined rates over more extended periods of time. If we decide to continue to spot charter our vessels, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in keeping all our vessels fully employed in these short-term markets or that future spot rates will be sufficient to enable our vessels to be operated profitably. A significant decrease in spot charter rates could affect the value of our fleet and could adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. Additionally, our ability to pay debt service to our lenders and dividends to our shareholders could be impaired. We are subject to regulation and liability under environmental laws that could require significant expenditures and reduce our cash flows and net income. Our business and the operation of our vessels are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which the vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. Because such conventions, laws, and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with such conventions, laws and regulations or the impact thereof on the resale prices or useful lives of our vessels. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted which could limit our ability to do business and thereby reduce our revenue or increase our cost of doing business and thereby materially decrease our net income. We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our operations. -6- Table of Contents The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the International Safety Management (“ISM”) Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive “Safety Management System.” The system includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject such party to increased liability, may decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels, and/or may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. Currently, each of our vessels is ISM Code certified, however, there can be no assurance that such certification will be maintained indefinitely. The European Union is considering legislation that will affect the operation of vessels and the liability of owners for oil pollution. It is difficult to predict what legislation, if any, may be promulgated by the European Union or any other country or authority. We currently maintain, for each of our vessels, pollution liability coverage insurance in the amount of one billion dollars per incident. If the damages from a catastrophic incident exceeded our insurance coverage, the payment of these damages may materially decrease our net income. The International Maritime Organization (“IMO”) or other regulatory bodies may adopt further regulations in the future that could adversely affect the useful lives of our vessels as well as our ability to generate income from them. These requirements can also affect the resale value of our vessels. The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA”) established an extensive regulatory and liability regime for the protection and clean-up of the environment from oil spills. OPA affects all owners and operators whose vessels trade in the United States of America or any of its territories and possessions or whose vessels operate in waters of the United States of America, which includes the territorial sea of the United States of America and its 200 nautical mile exclusive economic zone. Under OPA, vessel owners, operators and bareboat charterers are “responsible parties” and are jointly, severally and strictly liable (unless the spill results solely from the act or omission of a third party, an act of God or an act of war) for all containment and clean-up costs and other damages arising from discharges or threatened discharges of oil from their vessels, including bunkers (fuel). If any of our vessels fail to maintain their class certification and/or fail any annual survey, intermediate survey, dry-docking or special survey, that vessel would be unable to carry cargo, thereby reducing our revenues and profitability and violating certain loan covenants of our third-party indebtedness. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention (“SOLAS”). Our vessels are currently classed with Lloyd’s Register of Shipping and Korean Register of Shipping. Lloyd’s Register of Shipping has awarded ISM and International Ship and Port Facilities Security (“ISPS”) certification to all three of our vessels and Free Bulkers, S.A. (“Free Bulkers”), the ship management company. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys, dry-dockings and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel’s machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Our vessels are on special survey cycles for hull inspection and continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection. Every vessel is also -7- Table of Contents required to be dry-docked every two to three years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. If any vessel does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey, dry-docking or special survey, the vessel will be unable to carry cargo between ports and will be unemployable and uninsurable, thereby reducing our revenues and profitability. That could also cause us to be in violation of certain covenants in our loan agreements. In addition, the cost of maintaining our vessels’ classifications may be substantial at times and could result in reduced revenues. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arresting or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of funds to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one of our vessels for claims relating to another of our vessels. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings. A government could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner. Also, a government could requisition our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels would reduce our revenues and net income. World events outside our control may negatively affect our ability to operate, thereby reducing our revenues and net income or our ability to obtain additional financing, thereby restricting the implementation of our business strategy. Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States of America on September 11, 2001, and on London, England on July 7, 2005, and the response to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks, continue to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets and may adversely affect our business by increasing security costs and creating delays because of heightened security measures. The continuing conflict in Iraq may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could prevent us from obtaining additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all, which would impair our implementation of our business strategy. Terrorist attacks may also negatively impact our vessels or our customers directly. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility of the financial markets in the United States of America and globally, an economic recession in the United States of America or the world and a corresponding reduction in our business and future prospects thereby reducing our revenues and net income. -8- Table of Contents We depend entirely on Free Bulkers to manage and charter our fleet. We currently contract the commercial and technical management of our fleet, including crewing, maintenance and repair, to Free Bulkers, an affiliated company with which we are under common control. The loss of Free Bulkers’ services, its failure to perform its obligations to us or their poor performance for us could reduce our revenues and net income. Although we may have rights against Free Bulkers if Free Bulkers defaults on its obligations to us, you may have no recourse against Free Bulkers. Further, we expect that we will need approval from our lenders if we ever intend to replace Free Bulkers as our ship manager. We, and our executive officers, have affiliations with Free Bulkers that could create conflicts of interest detrimental to us. Our executive officers are also principals and officers of Free Bulkers, which is our ship management company. These dual responsibilities of our officers and the relationships between the two companies could create conflicts of interest between us and Free Bulkers. These conflicts may arise in connection with the chartering, purchase, sale and operations of the vessels in our fleet versus drybulk carriers managed by other companies affiliated with Free Bulkers. Each of our operating subsidiaries has a nonexclusive management agreement with Free Bulkers. Free Bulkers may enter into management agreements with other shipping companies, some of which may be in competition with us. Free Bulkers may also allocate charter or spot opportunities to other shipping vessels when our vessels may be unemployed. These possible actions by Free Bulkers would be permitted by its agreements with our subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that Free Bulkers will resolve all conflicts of interest in a manner beneficial to us. Operational or financial problems experienced by Free Bulkers, our affiliate, may adversely impact us. The ability of Free Bulkers to continue providing services for us will depend in part on Free Bulkers’ own financial strength. Circumstances beyond our control could impair Free Bulkers’ financial strength and, as a result, Free Bulkers’ ability to fulfill its obligations to us which could have a material adverse effect on us. We have a short operating history and cannot assure you that we will continue to operate profitably in the future. We commenced operations in April 2004 and have a very short operating history. Although our operations have been profitable to date, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be profitable in the future. If we fail to manage our planned growth properly, we may not be able to successfully expand our market share. We intend to continue to grow our fleet. Our growth will depend on: • locating and acquiring suitable vessels; • identifying and consummating acquisitions or joint ventures; • integrating any acquired vessel successfully with our existing operations; -9- Table of Contents • enhancing our customer base; • managing our expansion; and • obtaining required financing. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks, such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations and difficulty experienced in (1) obtaining additional qualified personnel, (2) managing relationships with customers and suppliers and (3) integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures. We cannot give any assurance that we will be successful in executing our growth plans or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with the execution of those growth plans. A decline in the market value of our vessels could lead to a default under our loan agreements and the loss of our vessels. We have incurred secured debt under loan agreements for all three of our vessels. See “Item 4. Information on the Company”. If the market value of our fleet declines, we may not be in compliance with certain provisions of our existing loan agreements and we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing. If we are unable to pledge additional collateral, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our fleet. Our existing loan agreements contain restrictive covenants that may limit our liquidity and corporate activities. Our existing loan agreements impose operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens on our assets; • sell capital stock of our subsidiaries; • make investments; • engage in mergers or acquisitions; • pay dividends; • make capital expenditures; • change the management of our vessels or terminate or materially amend the management agreement relating to each vessel; and • sell our vessels. Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate actions. The lenders’ interests may be different from ours, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain the lenders’ permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest. -10- Table of Contents Servicing debt may limit funds available for other purposes. To finance our fleet, we have incurred secured debt under loan agreements for all three of our vessels that are guaranteed by us. We also currently expect to incur additional secured debt to finance the acquisition of additional vessels. We must dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest on our debt. These payments limit funds otherwise available for working capital expenditures and other purposes. As of December 31, 2005, we had total long-term debt of $13,000,000 and loans from shareholders totaling $3,200,000, which were used to purchase each of our vessels. If we are unable to service our remaining debt, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our fleet. In April 2005 and October 2005, we and the holders of our common stock prior to our merger with Trinity Partners Acquisition Company Inc. (“Trinity”) agreed to modify the terms of the shareholder loans made in connection with the acquisition of our first two vessels. These two loans have an outstanding balance, net of discount which results from accounting for the loans at their fair value, of $3,200,000 at December 31, 2005. The repayment schedule for each loan is now eight equal quarterly installments of $125,000 each in 2006 and 2007, commencing on March 31, 2006, with balloon payments of the balance due on each loan on January 1, 2008. Additionally, the amended terms provide that the loans will become immediately due and payable in the event that following the completion of our merger with Trinity we raise additional capital of at least $12,500,000. As of the date of filing of this annual report, this condition had not been met. Previously, the loans were repayable from time to time based on our available cash flow, and matured on the earlier of the sale date of the applicable vessel or on December 31, 2006. Although these modifications extended the time for repayment of these loans, the required repayment schedule will nevertheless reduce the working capital that is available for other purposes. In June 2005, we incurred an additional $11,025,000 in debt to acquire the handymax drybulk carrier the M/V Free Fighter. We borrowed $7,000,000 from an unaffiliated third-party lender. The rise in interest rates since 2005 has caused our interest cost to increase and has had a material adverse effect on our net income. Any further interest rate increases could further reduce our revenues and net income. We have purchased, and may purchase in the future, vessels with loans that provide for periodic interest payments based on indices that fluctuate with changes in market interest rates. If interest rates increase significantly, it would increase our costs of financing our acquisition of vessels, which could decrease the number of additional vessels that we could acquire and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Any increase in debt service would also reduce the funds available to us to purchase other vessels. The performance of our existing charters and the creditworthiness of our charterers may hinder our ability to implement our business strategy by making additional debt financing unavailable or available only at higher than anticipated cost. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional debt financing that we will require to purchase additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such financing. Our inability to obtain additional financing at all, or at a higher than anticipated cost, may materially impair our ability to implement our business strategy. -11- Table of Contents As we expand our business, we will need to upgrade our operational and financial systems, and add more staff and crew. If we cannot upgrade these systems or recruit suitable additional employees, our performance may suffer. Our current operating and financial systems may not be adequate if we expand the size of our fleet, and our attempt to improve those systems may be ineffective. In addition, if we expand our fleet, we will have to rely on Free Bulkers to recruit suitable additional seafarers and shoreside administrative and management personnel. We cannot assure you that Free Bulkers will be able to continue to hire suitable additional employees as we expand our fleet. If Free Bulkers’ unaffiliated crewing agent encounters business or financial difficulties, we may not be able to adequately staff our vessels. If we cannot upgrade our operational and financial systems effectively or recruit suitable additional employees, our performance may suffer and our ability to expand our business further will be restricted. We will be required to evaluate our controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which will require substantial resources. If these evaluations result in the identification of material weaknesses, we may be adversely affected until these weakneses can be corrected. We are required to comply with a variety of laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and the Nasdaq® Capital Market rules. In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control systems, and attestations as to the effectiveness of these systems by our independent public accounting firm. We anticipate that we will have to dedicate additional resources and accelerate progress on the required assessments in order to complete documenting and testing our internal control systems and procedures in the time required which will permit our independent public accounting firm to complete its audit work to enable us to timely file our Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2007. During the course of testing, deficiencies may be identified that we may not be able to remediate to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. This may result in the receipt of a qualified report by our independent public accounting firm. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to obtain an unqualified report or to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our stock. In the highly competitive international drybulk shipping industry, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources. We employ our vessels in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we have. Competition for the transportation of drybulk cargoes can be intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its managers to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions that may be able to offer better prices and fleets. -12- Table of Contents We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may reduce the effectiveness of our management and lower our results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our existing management team. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Our success will depend upon our ability to hire additional employees and to retain key members of our management team. Difficulty in hiring and retaining personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance on any of our officers. Risks involved with operating ocean-going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which may reduce our revenues. The operation of an ocean-going vessel carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: • crew strikes and/or boycotts; • marine disaster; • piracy; • environmental accidents; • cargo and property losses or damage; and • business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions. The involvement of any of our vessels in an environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel operator. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues. Our vessels may suffer damage and may face unexpected dry-docking costs, which could reduce our cash flow and impair our financial condition. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a dry-docking facility. The costs of dry-dock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to pay dry-docking costs that our insurance does not cover. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and reconditioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. Purchasing and operating previously owned, or secondhand, vessels may result in increased operating costs and vessels off-hire, which could adversely affect our earnings. Although we inspect the secondhand vessels that we acquire prior to purchase, this inspection does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition and cost of any required (or anticipated) repairs that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Generally, we do not receive the benefit of warranties on secondhand vessels. -13- Table of Contents In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations or safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which the vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. If we sell vessels, it is not certain that the price for which we sell them will equal their carrying amount at that time. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us adequately for damage to, or loss of, our vessels. We procure hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes environmental damage and pollution insurance and war risk insurance for our fleet. We do not maintain insurance against loss of hire, which covers business interruptions that result in the loss of use of a vessel. We can give no assurance that we are adequately insured against all other risks. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our fleet in the future. Our insurance policies contain deductibles for which we will be responsible and limitations and exclusions which may increase our costs. Moreover, we cannot assure that the insurers will not default on any claims they are required to pay. If our insurance is not enough to cover claims that may arise, we may not be able to repair any damage to our vessels or replace any vessel that is lost or may have to use our own funds for those purposes, thereby reducing our funds available to implement our business strategy. Our operations outside the United States of America expose us to global risks that may interfere with the operation of our vessels. We are an international company and primarily conduct our operations outside the United States of America. Changing economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we are engaged in business or where our vessels are registered affect our operations. In the past, political conflicts, particularly in the Arabian Gulf, resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt shipping in the area. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. The likelihood of future acts of terrorism may increase, and our vessels may face higher risks of being attacked. In addition, future hostilities or other political instability in regions where our vessels trade could have a material adverse effect on our trade patterns and adversely affect our revenues. -14- Table of Contents 