Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, in evaluating us and our business before making an investment decision regarding our securities. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The risks listed below are not the only risks that we face. 7 Table of Contents Risks associated with our business Recent changes in U.S. and global economic conditions could have a continuing adverse effect on the profitability of some or all of our businesses. Recent concerns over declining consumer and business confidence, the availability and cost of credit, reduced consumer spending and business investment, the volatility and strength of the capital and credit markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our products is adversely affected. Adverse changes in the economy could negatively affect earnings and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. We cannot predict whether or when such circumstances may occur, or what impact, if any such circumstances could have on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Conditions in the global capital and credit markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Our results of operations and financial position could be materially affected by adverse changes in the global capital and credit markets and the economy generally, including recent declines in consumer and business confidence and spending, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption over the last year. In some cases, these markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit and increased the costs of credit when such credit is available. Conditions in the capital and credit markets and the effects of the declines in consumer and business confidence and spending may adversely impact the ability of our lenders, suppliers and customers to conduct their business activities. The consequences of such adverse effects could include the interruption of production at the facilities of our customers, the reduction, delay or cancellation of customer orders, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products, and bankruptcy of customers or other creditors. Moreover, the current worldwide financial crisis has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to fund or support the continuation and expansion of business operations worldwide as many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. While we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit our credit risk and avoid losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows and financial position. We rely on key customers and a loss of one or more of our key customers could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. During the year ended December 31, 2009, no customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated net sales. However, losses of key customers could significantly impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. We are dependent upon key management executives the loss whom may adversely impact our business. We depend on the expertise, experience and continued services of corporate and mill management. The loss of such management, or an inability to attract or retain other key individuals, could materially adversely affect our business. There can be no assurance that our salaries and incentive compensation plans will allow us to retain the services of these key management executives or hire new key employees. 8 Table of Contents KapStone's indebtedness may adversely affect its financial health. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $152 million of outstanding debt. As a result of the indebtedness, our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes may be impaired in the future. The debt could make us vulnerable to economic downturns and may hinder our ability to adjust to rapidly changing market conditions. A substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will be needed to meet the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. The business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable it to repay our indebtedness and to fund other liquidity needs, including capital expenditure requirements. The indebtedness incurred by us under our senior secured credit facility bears interest at variable rates, and therefore if interest rates increase, our debt service requirements would increase. In such case, we may need to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including the senior secured credit facility, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we cannot service or refinance our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our senior secured credit facility contains restrictive covenants that limit our liquidity and corporate activities. Our credit facility imposes operating and financial restrictions that limit our ability to: •incur additional indebtedness; •create additional liens on our assets; •make investments; •engage in mergers or acquisitions; •pay dividends; and •sell all or any substantial part of our assets In addition, the credit facility also imposes other restrictions on us. Therefore, we would need to seek permission from the lenders in order to engage in certain corporate actions. The lenders' interests may be different from ours, and no assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain the lenders' permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest. The credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios. The failure to maintain the specified ratios could result in an event of default if not cured or waived. In the event of a default under our senior credit facility, the lenders generally would be able to declare all of such indebtedness, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable. In addition, borrowings under the credit facility are secured by a first priority lien on all of our assets and, in the event of a default under that facility the lenders generally would be entitled to seize the collateral. A default under any debt instrument, unless cured or waived, would likely have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. If we fail to extend or renegotiate the collective bargaining agreements with the United Steelworkers Union as they expire from time to time, or if our unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, our business and operating results could be materially harmed. Most of our hourly paid employees are represented by trade unions. We are a party to collective bargaining contracts which apply to approximately 600 employees at the North Charleston mill and 9 Table of Contents 385 employees at the Roanoke Rapids mill. No assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully extend or renegotiate the collective bargaining agreements as they expire from time to time. Currently, there is a collective bargaining agreement in effect with respect to Roanoke Rapids through August 31, 2010. There are approximately 600 union employees at the mill in North Charleston, South Carolina that are represented by one of four unions. Those employees have been working without a contract since June 30, 2009. However, the employees represented by three of the four unions have approved the Company's most recent contract offer. The Company remains in negotiations with the remaining union. If we are unable to extend or negotiate new agreements without work stoppages, it could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products and adversely affect results of operations. Our operations are global in nature, and accordingly our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be adversely affected by the political and economic conditions of the countries in which we conduct business, by fluctuations in exchange rates and other factors related to our international operations. Approximately 38% and 32% of our annual revenues in 2009 and 2008, respectively, were derived from export sales. As our international operations and activities expand, we face increasing exposure to the risks of selling to customers in foreign countries. These factors include: •Changes in foreign currency exchange rates which could adversely affect selling prices for our products, and therefore our competitive position in a particular market. •Trade protection measures in favor of local producers of competing products, including government subsidies, tax benefits, trade actions (such as anti-dumping proceedings) and other measures giving local producers a competitive advantage over the company. •Changes generally in political, regulatory or economic conditions in the countries in which we conduct business. These risks could affect the cost of selling our products, our pricing, sales volume, and ultimately our financial performance. The likelihood of such occurrences and their potential effect on the company vary from country to country and are unpredictable. If we fail to maintain effective systems for disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 in a timely manner. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with an established internal control framework and to report on management's conclusion as to the effectiveness of its internal controls. It also requires an independent registered public accounting firm to test our internal controls over financial reporting and report on the effectiveness of such controls for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2009, and subsequent years. It may cost us more than we expect to comply with these controls and procedure related requirements. If we discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement, we cannot be certain that any remedial measures taken will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate internal controls over financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. We may be required to record a charge to our earnings if our goodwill becomes impaired. We test for impairment of goodwill annually at the beginning of the fourth quarter in accordance with generally accepted accounting standards. When events or changes in circumstances indicate that 10 Table of Contents the carrying value for such assets may not be recoverable, however, we review goodwill for impairment on an interim basis. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances requiring our interim testing include a decline in stock price as compared to our book value per share, future cash flows and slower growth rates. In connection with future annual or interim tests, we may be required to record a non-cash charge to earnings during the period in which any impairment of goodwill is determined, which would adversely impact our results of operations. See Note 2. "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Goodwill and Intangible Assets" in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to impairment of goodwill. Our business depends on effective information management systems. We rely on our enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems to support such critical business operations as processing sales orders and invoicing, inventory control, purchasing and supply chain management, payroll and human resources, and financial reporting. We periodically implement upgrades to such systems or migrate one or more of our affiliates, facilities or operations from one system to another. If we are unable to adequately maintain such systems to support our developing business requirements or effectively manage any upgrade or migration, we could encounter difficulties that could have a material adverse impact on our business, internal controls over financial reporting, financial results, or our ability to timely and accurately report such results. We may incur business disruptions. We take measures to minimize the risks of disruptions at our manufacturing facilities. The occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tropical storm, earthquake, tornado, flood, fire or other unanticipated problems such as labor difficulties, equipment failure or unscheduled maintenance could cause operational disruptions and could materially adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. Any losses due to these events may not be covered by our existing insurance policies or may be subject to certain deductibles. Environmental regulations could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We are subject to environmental regulation by federal, state, and local authorities in the United States, including requirements that regulate discharge into the environment, waste management, and remediation of environmental contamination. Maintaining compliance with existing and new environmental laws may require capital expenditures for compliance. Due to past history of industrial operations at the Roanoke Rapids and North Charleston mills, the possibility of onsite and offsite environmental impact to the soil and groundwater may present a heighted risk of contamination. If we are required to make significant expenditures for remediation, the costs of such efforts may have a significant negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. MWV retained responsibility for certain offsite environmental conditions resulting from the operations at the North Charleston mill existing prior to the closing of the CKD acquisition. The overall indemnification by MWV for certain losses includes assumed environmental liabilities, subject to an $8.5 million threshold and a cap equal to 15% of the purchase price of $485 million, MWV's obligation to indemnify us for any historical onsite liability or breach of certain environmental representations and warranties terminates on December 31, 2013. MWV's indemnification for certain offsite historical liabilities survive indefinitely. Because we are unable to presently make a determination as to whether the environmental impact, if any, would be widespread or significant, the negotiated cap and survival period may not be sufficient to cover future losses. 11 Table of Contents We may be required to pay income taxes related to the Alternative Fuel Mixture Tax Credit. On March 31, 2009, we received approval from the Internal Revenue Service for our registration as an alternative fuel mixer, which provides for a refund of $0.50 per gallon of alternate fuel used in our pulp making process. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we received refunds of $165 million. We have taken the position that the tax credit is similar to a federal excise tax refund, and as a result, is not taxable. To date, the Internal Revenue Service has issued no guidance concerning this issue. As of December 31, 2009 we have recorded a $63 million liability for an unrecognized tax benefit relating to the taxability of alternative fuel mixture tax credits. Risks Associated with KapStone's Common Stock The market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. The market price of our common stock may be volatile due to certain factors, including, but not limited to; quarterly fluctuations in our financial and operating results; general conditions in the paper and packaging industries; or changes in earnings estimates. Shares available for future issuance, conversion and exercise could have an adverse effect on the earnings per share and the market price of our common stock. Any future issuance of equity securities, including upon exercise of outstanding stock options, could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common stock. Our executive officers and directors control a substantial percentage of our common stock and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. At December 31, 2009, our executive officers and directors owned 7.8 million shares of our common stock, or approximately 17.3% of our total issued and outstanding common stock. Accordingly, our executive officers and directors may have considerable influence over the outcome of all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including future acquisitions and the election of directors. In addition, our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. At the annual meeting, as a consequence of our "staggered" board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our officers and directors, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome of the election. Some of our executive officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Some of our executive officers and directors have, or may in the future, become affiliated with entities, including "blank check" companies, engaged in business activities similar to those conducted by us. Additionally, our executive officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities to which they have an affiliation. Accordingly, they may have conflicts as to questions pertaining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. 12 Table of Contents Risks associated with the paper, packaging, forest products and related industries The paper, packaging, forest products and related industries are highly cyclical. Fluctuations in the prices of and the demand for products could result in smaller profit margins and lower sales volumes. Historically, economic and market shifts, fluctuations in capacity and changes in foreign currency exchange rates have created cyclical changes in prices, sales volume and margins for products in the paper, packaging, forest products and related industries. The length and magnitude of industry cycles have varied over time and by product, but generally reflect changes in macroeconomic conditions and levels of industry capacity. Most paper products and many wood products used in the packaging industry are commodities that are widely available from many producers. Because commodity products have few distinguishing qualities from producer to producer, competition for these products is based primarily on price, which is determined by supply relative to demand. The overall levels of demand for these commodity products reflect fluctuations in levels of end-user demand, which depend in large part on general macroeconomic conditions in North America and regional economic conditions in our markets, as well as foreign currency exchange rates. The foregoing factors could materially and adversely impact sales and profitability of our company. Difficulty obtaining wood fiber at favorable prices, or at all, may negatively impact companies in the paper and packaging industry. Wood fiber is the principal raw material in many parts of the paper and packaging industry. Wood fiber is a commodity, and prices historically have been cyclical. Environmental litigation and regulatory developments have caused, and may cause in the future, significant reductions in the amount of timber available for commercial harvest in the United States. These reductions have caused the closure of plywood and lumber operations in some of the geographic areas in which a target company might operate. In addition, future domestic or foreign legislation and litigation concerning the use of timberlands, the protection of endangered species, the promotion of forest health and the response to and prevention of catastrophic wildfires could also affect timber supplies. Availability of harvested timber may further be limited by fire, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, wind storms, flooding and other natural and manmade causes, thereby reducing supply and increasing prices. Industry supply of commodity paper and wood products is also subject to fluctuation, as changing industry conditions can influence producers to idle or permanently close individual machines or entire mills. In addition, to avoid substantial cash costs in connection with idling or closing a mill, some producers will choose to continue to operate at a loss, sometimes even a cash loss, which could prolong weak pricing environments due to oversupply. Oversupply in these markets can also result from producers introducing new capacity in response to favorable short-term pricing trends. Industry supply of commodity papers and wood products is also influenced by overseas production capacity, which has grown in recent years and is expected to continue to grow. Wood fiber pricing is subject to regional market influences, and the cost of wood fiber may increase in particular regions due to market shifts in those regions. In addition, the ability to obtain wood fiber from foreign countries may be impacted by legal and political conditions in those countries as well as transportation difficulties. An increase in the cost of purchased energy and raw materials would lead to higher manufacturing costs, thereby reducing margins which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Energy is a significant raw material in the paper and packaging industry. Energy prices, particularly for electricity, coal and fuel oil, have been volatile in recent years and currently coal and electricity exceed historical averages. These fluctuations have historically impacted manufacturing costs of companies in these industries, often contributing to reduced margins and increased earnings volatility. Recent significant increases in energy prices can be expected to adversely impact businesses in these 13 Table of Contents industries. In addition, we could be materially adversely impacted by supply disruptions or the inability to pass on cost increases to our customers. Paper and packaging companies face strong competition. The paper and packaging industry is highly fragmented, and we face competition from numerous competitors, domestic as well as foreign. Some of our competitors will be large, vertically integrated companies that have greater financial and other resources, greater manufacturing economies of scale, greater energy self-sufficiency and/or lower operating costs. Certain paper and wood products are vulnerable to long-term declines in demand due to competing technologies or materials. Companies in the paper and packaging industry are subject to possible declines in demand for their products as the use of alternative materials and technologies grows and the prices of such alternatives become more competitive. Any substantial shift in demand from wood and paper products to competing technologies or materials could result in a material decrease in sales of our products and could adversely affect our results of operations. We cannot ensure that any efforts we might undertake to adapt our product offerings to such changes would be successful or sufficient. Paper and packaging companies are subject to significant environmental regulation and environmental compliance expenditures, as well as other potential environmental liabilities. Companies in the paper and packaging industry are subject to a wide range of general and industry-specific environmental laws and regulations, particularly with respect to air emissions, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous waste management, site remediation, forestry operations and endangered species habitats. We may incur substantial expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could expose us to civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including orders limiting operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or other remedial actions. Risks Associated with Acquisitions Future acquisitions of businesses by us would subject us to additional business, operating and industry risks, the impact of which cannot presently be evaluated, and could adversely impact our capital structure. We intend to pursue other acquisition opportunities in an effort to diversify our investments and/or grow our business. Any business acquired by us may cause us to be affected by numerous risks inherent in the acquired business' operations. If we acquire a business in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be adversely affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. We cannot ensure that we would be able to properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors with any such acquisitions. In addition, the financing of any acquisition completed by us could adversely impact our capital structure as any such financing would likely include the issuance of additional equity securities and/or the borrowing of additional funds. The issuance of additional equity securities may significantly reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and/or adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Increasing our indebtedness could increase the risk of a default that would entitle the holder to declare all of such indebtedness due and payable and/or to seize any collateral securing the indebtedness. In addition, default under one debt instrument could in turn permit lenders under other debt instruments to declare borrowings outstanding under those other instruments to be due and payable pursuant to cross default clauses. Accordingly, the financing of future acquisitions could adversely impact our capital structure and the value of your equity interest in us. 14 Table of Contents Except as required by law or the rules of any securities exchange on which our securities might be listed at the time we seek to consummate a subsequent acquisition, stockholders will not be asked to vote on any such proposed acquisition and no redemption rights in connection with any such acquisition will exist. Our operations are dependent upon certain operating agreements for fiber. We rely on certain supply arrangements to provide us roundwood and woodchips. If one of these suppliers suffered a setback, KapStone's supply of roundwood and woodchips may not be adequate to cover customer needs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 