Item 1A. Risk Factors. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry may limit our ability to maintain or increase net sales and profit levels during industry downturns. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and periodically experiences significant economic downturns characterized by diminished product demand, resulting in production overcapacity and excess inventory in the markets we serve, which can result in rapid erosion of average selling prices. The industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both semiconductor companies’ and their customers’ products and the decline in general economic conditions. We have experienced these conditions in our business in the past and may experience renewed, and possibly more severe and prolonged, downturns in the future as a result of such cyclical changes. This may reduce our profitability and the value of our business. Customer demand is difficult to accurately forecast. We make significant decisions, including determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept, production schedules, component procurement commitments, personnel needs and other resource requirements, based on our estimates of customer requirements. The short-term nature of commitments by many of our customers and the possibility of rapid changes in demand for their products reduces our ability to accurately estimate future customer demand. On occasion, customers may require rapid increases in production, which can challenge our resources and reduce margins. We may not have sufficient capacity at any given time to meet our customers’ increased demand for our product. Conversely, downturns in the semiconductor industry may cause and have caused our customers to significantly reduce the amount of products ordered from us. Because many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand may decrease our gross margins and operating income. Our customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production. We generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. Customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production for a number of reasons. Cancellations, reductions or delays by a significant customer or by a group of customers, which we have experienced as a result of the recent downturn in the semiconductor industry, have adversely affected and may continue to adversely 10 Table of Contents affect our results of operations. In addition, while we do not obtain long-term purchase commitments, we generally agree to the pricing of a particular product for the entire lifecycle of the product, which can extend over a number of years. If we underestimate our costs when determining the pricing, our margins and results of operations would be adversely affected. A significant portion of our sales comes from a relatively limited number of customers. If we were to lose key customers or if customers cease to place orders for our high volume devices, our financial results will be adversely affected. While we served more than 240 customers in the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2006, net sales to our 10 largest customers represented approximately 65.6% of our net sales for the period. We had one individual customer and one group of affiliated customers that each represented greater than 10% of our net sales during the year ended December 31, 2006. Significant reductions in sales to any of these customers, the loss of major customers or the curtailment of orders for our high-volume devices within a short period of time would adversely affect our business. Our industry is highly competitive. The semiconductor industry is highly competitive and includes hundreds of companies, a number of which have achieved substantial market share. Current and prospective customers for our products evaluate our capabilities against the merits of our direct competitors. Some of our competitors are well-established as independent companies and have substantially greater market share and manufacturing, financial, research and development and marketing resources than we do. We also compete with emerging companies that are attempting to sell their products in specialized markets, and with the internal capabilities of many of our significant customers. We expect to experience continuing competitive pressures in our markets from existing competitors and new entrants. Any consolidation among our competitors could enhance their product offerings and financial resources, further enhancing their competitive position. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including the following: our ability to offer cost effective products on a timely basis using our technologies; our ability to accurately identify and respond to emerging technological trends and demand for product features and performance characteristics; product introductions by our competitors; our ability to adopt or adapt to emerging industry standards; and the number and nature of our competitors in a given market. Many of these factors are outside of our control. In the future, our competitors may capture our existing or potential customers and our customers may satisfy more of their requirements internally. As a result, we may experience declining revenues and profits. A decline in average selling prices could decrease our profits. In the past, our industry has experienced a decline in average selling prices. A decline in average selling prices for our products, if not offset by reductions in the costs of producing such products, would decrease our gross profits and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Growth in the consumer electronics and other end markets for our products is an important component in our success. Our continued success will depend in part on the growth of various consumer electronics markets and other end markets that use our semiconductors and on general economic growth. To the extent that we cannot offset recessionary periods or periods of reduced growth that may occur in these markets through greater penetration of these markets, our sales may decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer as a result. We depend on successful technological advances for growth. Our industry is subject to rapid technological change and product obsolescence as customers and competitors create new and innovative products and technologies. Products or technologies developed by other 11 Table of Contents companies may render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive and we may not be able to access leading edge process technologies or to license or otherwise obtain essential intellectual property required by our customers. Our inability to continue identifying new product opportunities, or manufacturing technologically advanced products on a cost-effective basis, may result in decreased revenues and a loss of market share to our competitors. We may not be able to attract or retain the technical or management employees necessary to remain competitive in our industry. We depend on our ability to attract and retain skilled technical and managerial personnel. We could lose the services of, or fail to recruit, skilled personnel, which could hinder our research and product development programs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. If we encounter future labor problems, we may fail to deliver our products in a timely manner which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. As of March 1, 2007, approximately 61% of our employees were represented by the MagnaChip Semiconductor Labor Union, which is a member of the Federation of Korean Metal Workers Trade Unions. We cannot assure you that issues with the labor union and other employees will be resolved favorably for us in the future, that we will not experience significant work stoppages in future years or that we will not record significant charges related to those work stoppages. We may incur costs to engage in future business combinations or strategic investments and the anticipated benefits of those transactions may not be realized. As part of our business strategy, we may seek to enter into business combinations, investments, joint ventures and other strategic alliances with other companies in order to maintain and grow revenue and market presence as well as to provide us with access to technology, products and services. Those transactions would be accompanied by risks that may harm our business, such as difficulties in assimilating the operations, personnel and products of an acquired business or in realizing the projected benefits; disruption of our ongoing business; potential increases in our indebtedness and contingent liabilities; and charges if the acquired company or assets are later worth less than the amount paid for them in the Original Acquisition. In addition, our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our notes may prohibit us from making acquisitions that we may otherwise wish to pursue. We depend on high utilization of our manufacturing capacity. As many of our costs are fixed, a reduction in capacity utilization, together with other factors such as yield and product mix, could reduce our profit margins and adversely affect our operating results. A number of factors and circumstances may reduce utilization rates, including periods of industry overcapacity, low levels of customer orders, operating inefficiencies, mechanical failures and disruption of operations due to expansion or relocation of operations, power interruptions, fire, flood or other natural disasters or calamities. The failure to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields could adversely affect our business. The manufacture of semiconductors requires precision, a highly-regulated and sterile environment and expensive equipment. We may have difficulty achieving acceptable yields in the manufacture of our products. Slight impurities or defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer or other factors can cause significant difficulties, particularly in connection with the production of a new product, the adoption of a new manufacturing process or any expansion of our manufacturing capacity and related transitions. 12 Table of Contents We rely on certain subcontractors. The majority of our net sales are derived from semiconductor devices assembled in advanced packages. The packaging of semiconductors is a complex process requiring, among other things, a high degree of technical skill and advanced equipment. We outsource our semiconductor packaging to subcontractors, most of which are located in Korea and Southeast Asia. We rely on these subcontractors to package our devices with acceptable quality and yield levels. If our semiconductor packagers experience problems in packaging our semiconductor devices or experience prolonged quality or yield problems, our operating results could be adversely affected. We depend on successful parts and materials procurement for our manufacturing processes. We use a wide range of parts and materials in the production of our semiconductors, including silicon, processing chemicals, processing gases, precious metals and electronic and mechanical components. We procure materials and electronic and mechanical components from domestic and foreign sources and original equipment manufacturers. If we cannot obtain adequate materials in a timely manner or on favorable terms for the manufacture of our products, either or both of our revenues or profits will decline. We face product liability risks and the risk of negative publicity if our products fail. Our semiconductors are incorporated into a number of end products, and our business is exposed to product liability risk and the risk of negative publicity if our products fail. Although we maintain insurance for product liability claims, the amount and scope of our insurance may not be adequate to cover a product liability claim that is asserted against us. In addition, product liability insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and, in the future, may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, we are exposed to the product liability risk and the risk of negative publicity affecting our customers and suppliers. Our sales may decline if any of our customers are sued on a product liability claim. We may also suffer a decline in sales from the negative publicity associated with such a lawsuit or with adverse public perceptions in general regarding our customers’ products. Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology, as well as our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We seek to protect our proprietary technologies and know-how through the use of patents, trade secrets, confidentiality agreements and other security measures. The process of seeking patent protection takes a long time and is expensive. We cannot assure you that patents will issue from pending or future applications or that, if patents issue, they will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights granted under the patents will provide us with meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. Some of our technologies are not covered by any patent or patent application. The confidentiality agreements on which we rely may be breached and may not be adequate to protect our proprietary technologies. We cannot assure you that other countries in which we market our services will protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States. Our ability to compete successfully depends on our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We have no means of knowing what patent applications have been filed in the United States until they are published. In addition, the semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Litigation, which could result in substantial costs to us and diversion of our resources, may also be necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others. In the event of an adverse outcome in any such litigation, we may be required to pay substantial damages, indemnify customers or licensees for damages they may suffer if the products they purchase from us or the technology they license from us violate the intellectual property rights of 13 Table of Contents others; stop our manufacture, use, sale or importation of infringing products; expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies; discontinue processes; or obtain licenses to the intellectual property we are found to have infringed. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in such development or acquisition or that such licenses would be available under reasonable terms, or at all. Our competitors may develop, patent or gain access to know-how and technology similar to our own. Failure to protect our existing intellectual property rights may result in the loss of valuable technologies or our having to pay other companies for infringing on their intellectual property rights. We are subject to many environmental laws and regulations that could affect our operations or result in significant expenses. We are subject to requirements of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate, governing, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the generation, use, handling, storage and disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous substances (including asbestos) and wastes, soil and groundwater contamination and employee health and safety. These laws and regulations are complex, constantly changing and have tended to become more stringent over time. We cannot assure you that we have been, or will be at all times, in complete compliance with all these laws and regulations or that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with these laws and regulations in the future. The adoption of new environmental, health and safety laws, the failure to comply with new or existing laws, or issues relating to hazardous substances could subject us to material liability (including substantial fines or penalties), impose the need for additional capital equipment or other process requirements upon us, curtail our operations, or restrict our ability to expand operations. We could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences as a result of changes in, or differences in the interpretation of, applicable tax laws. Our company organizational structure is based, in part, on assumptions about the various tax laws, including withholding tax, and other laws of applicable non-U.S. jurisdictions. In addition, our Korean subsidiary (“MagnaChip Korea”) was granted a limited tax-holiday under Korean law in October 2004, which provides for certain tax exemptions for corporate taxes, withholding taxes, acquisition taxes, property and land taxes and other taxes for five years. Our interpretations and conclusions are not binding on any taxing authority, and, if our assumptions about tax and other laws are incorrect or if the authorities were to change or modify the relevant laws, we could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences or have the anticipated benefits of our company organizational structure materially impaired. A limited number of persons indirectly control us. CVC, Francisco Partners, and CVC Asia Pacific own approximately 34.1%, 34.1% and 18.3%, respectively, of the outstanding voting interests in MagnaChip. By virtue of their ownership of these voting interests, and the securityholders’ agreement among MagnaChip and its unitholders, these entities have significant influence over our management and will be able to determine the outcome of all matters required to be submitted to the unitholders for approval, including the election of a majority of our directors and the approval of mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. We may need additional capital in the future and it may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We may require more capital in the future to fund our operations, finance investments in equipment and infrastructure, and respond to competitive pressures and potential strategic opportunities. Additional capital may not be available when needed or, if available, may not be available on satisfactory terms. If we are unable to obtain capital on favorable terms, or if we are unable to obtain capital at all, we may have to reduce our operations or forego opportunities and it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Our international operations are subject to various risks that may lead to decreases in financial results. We face risks inherent in international operations, such as unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other market barriers, political, social and economic instability, adverse tax consequences, war, civil disturbances and acts of terrorism, difficulties in accounts receivables collection, extended payment terms and differing labor standards, enforcement of contractual obligations and protection of intellectual property. These risks may lead to increased costs or decreased revenue growth, or both. Any increase in tensions with North Korea could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Relations between Korea and North Korea have been tense throughout Korea’s modern history. The level of tension between Korea and North Korea has fluctuated and may increase or change abruptly as a result of current and future events. Although we do not derive any revenue from, nor sell any products in, North Korea, any future increase in tensions which may occur, for example, the breakdown of high-level contacts between Korea and North Korea or the occurrence of military hostilities, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risks associated with currency fluctuations. Our revenues are denominated in various currencies, specifically, the Korean Won, Japanese Yen, Euro and U.S. dollar. As a result, changes in the exchange rates of these currencies or any other applicable currencies to the U.S. dollar will affect the translated price of products and therefore operating margins and could result in exchange losses. The majority of our costs are denominated in Korean Won and to a lesser extent in Japanese Yen, U.S. dollar and Euro. Therefore, changes in the exchange rates of these currencies or any other applicable currencies to the U.S. dollar will affect cost of goods sold and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. We cannot fully predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our profitability. From time to time, we may have engaged in, and may continue to engage in, exchange rate hedging activities in an effort to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations. However, we cannot assure you that any hedging technique we implement will be effective. If it is not effective, we may experience reduced operating margins. Our historical financial information may not be representative of our results as a separate company. Prior to the Original Acquisition, we operated as a division of Hynix. Historical financial information for periods prior to September 30, 2004, was derived from Hynix’s consolidated financial statements, has been presented on a carve-out basis and does not necessarily reflect what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been had we been a separate, stand-alone company during the periods presented. As carve-out financial statements, the financial statements include allocations of the costs of shared activities and overhead of Hynix and of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment shared with Hynix. These allocations are based upon various assumptions and estimates, some of which are subjective. Actual results of our operations had we operated on a stand-alone basis, may differ from those allocations and estimates. Also, as part of the Original Acquisition we did not acquire certain assets that were included in the carve-out financial statements and we assumed certain additional costs and obligations that are not reflected in the carve-out financial statements. Accordingly, the carve-out financial statements should not be relied upon as being representative of our financial position or operating results had we operated on a stand-alone basis, nor may they be representative of our financial position or operating results following the Original Acquisition. 15 Table of Contents Our expenses could increase if Hynix were unwilling or unable to provide certain services related to our shared facilities with Hynix. Because we share certain facilities with Hynix, a few services that are essential to our business are provided to us by or through Hynix. These services include electricity, bulk gasses and de-ionized water, campus facilities, wastewater and sewage management, and environmental safety. If any of our agreements with Hynix were terminated or if Hynix were unwilling or unable to fulfill its obligations to us under the terms of these agreements, we would have to procure these services on our own and as a result may experience an increase in our expenses. In addition, we lease building and warehouse space from Hynix in Cheongju, Korea, and lease to Hynix some of the space we own in Cheongju, Korea. If Hynix were to become insolvent, we could lose our leases on some of our building and warehouse space. Research and development investments may not yield profitable and commercially viable products and thus will not necessarily result in increases in revenues for us. We invest significant resources in our research and development. However, research and development efforts may not yield commercially viable products. During each stage of research and development there is a substantial risk that we will have to abandon a potential product which is no longer marketable and in which we have invested significant resources. In the event we are able to develop viable new products, a significant amount of time will have elapsed between our investment in the necessary research and development effort and the receipt of any related revenues. Investor confidence may be adversely impacted if we are unable to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Beginning with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, we will be subject to rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which require us to include in our Annual Report on Form 10-K our management’s report on, and assessment of the effectiveness of, our internal controls over financial reporting. Beginning with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2008, our independent auditors will be required to attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, there is a risk that we will not comply with all of the requirements imposed by Section 404. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. Any of these possible outcomes could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could harm our business and could negatively impact the market price of our securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 