Risk factors” and “Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.” There may be other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results referred to in the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf apply only as of the date of this report and are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements included in this report. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this report which attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. “MagnaChip” and “IC Media” are our trademarks and trade names. All other trademarks, trade names, and service marks appearing in this report are the property of their respective owners. 1 Table of Contents Item 1. Business. BUSINESS OVERVIEW MagnaChip Semiconductor LLC (“MagnaChip”) is a leading designer, developer and manufacturer of mixed-signal and digital multimedia semiconductors addressing the convergence of consumer electronics and communications devices. We focus on Complementary Metal-Oxide Semiconductor (“CMOS”) image sensors and flat panel display drivers, which are complex, high-performance mixed-signal semiconductors that capture images and enable and enhance the features and capabilities of both small and large flat panel displays. Our solutions are used in a wide variety of consumer and commercial mass market applications, such as mobile handsets, including camera-equipped mobile handsets, flat panel monitors and televisions, consumer home and mobile displays, portable and desktop computer displays, handheld gaming devices, PDAs and audio-visual equipment such as DVD players. We serve consumer markets that we believe will have higher growth rates than those of the overall semiconductor industry. We manufacture our products using our proprietary process technology, which we believe provides our products with cost advantages over those of our competitors. We have approximately 11,900 registered and pending patents, which we believe is one of the largest patent portfolios in the semiconductor industry. We believe that our proprietary CMOS image sensor technology provides brighter, sharper, more colorful picture quality in image-capture applications such as camera-equipped mobile handsets. Our flat panel display drivers enable our customers to deliver higher image quality, thinner and more power-efficient small panel displays for use in mobile handsets, handheld gaming devices and PDAs and large panel displays for use in portable and desktop computer monitors and digital televisions. We are also a leading provider of wafer foundry services whereby we leverage our specialized process technologies and low cost manufacturing facilities to produce semiconductors for third parties using their product designs. We own and operate five wafer fabrication facilities, or fabs, which have a combined production capacity of over 116,000 eight-inch equivalent wafers per month. Our fabs provide us with large-scale, cost-effective and flexible capacity, enabling us to rapidly scale to high volume to meet shifts in demand by our end customers. Our fabs also provide us with the ability to further develop our differentiated process technologies for our own product development and manufacturing. The location of our manufacturing sites and research and development resources in Korea, Japan, and the United States provide close geographical proximity to many of our largest customers and to the core of the worldwide consumer electronics supply chain. We sell our solutions to leading original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, which include major branded customers as well as contract manufacturers. Our CMOS image sensors are currently designed into products offered by leading global mobile handset manufacturers. Our flat panel display drivers are currently incorporated into products offered by top flat panel display manufacturers. During the year ended December 31, 2005, we sold over 1,800 products to more than 300 customers. We generated actual net sales of $937.7 million for the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2005. In the three-month period ended December 31, 2004, and the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, we derived respectively 23.8% and 17.4% of our consolidated revenue from CMOS image sensors, 24.8% and 34.8% from flat panel display drivers, and 44.3% and 42.2% from semiconductor manufacturing services. THE ORIGINAL ACQUISITION Our business was named MagnaChip Semiconductor when it was acquired from Hynix Semiconductor Inc. on October 6, 2004, by Citigroup Venture Capital Equity Partners, L.P., or CVC, Francisco Partners L.P., or Francisco Partners, CVC Asia Pacific Limited, or CVC Asia Pacific, certain members of management and other investors, following discussions with Hynix that began in late 2001 and the execution of a definitive agreement 2 Table of Contents in June 2004. Previously, we were the System IC division within Hynix which, in 1999, had been formed from the Hyundai Electronics and LG Semiconductor System IC businesses and can trace its history back to the late 1970s. Although we were previously part of Hynix, we had a history of operating autonomously within Hynix and had a separate global sales force and management structure. In connection with the acquisition transaction, we entered into several definitive agreements with Hynix regarding key raw materials, campus facilities, research and development equipment and information technology, and factory automation and wafer foundry services. We also entered into a non-exclusive cross license with Hynix which provides us with access to certain of Hynix’s intellectual property for use in the manufacture and sale of non-memory semiconductor products. We believe that these arrangements with Hynix provide significant mutual operational advantages, for example, allowing us to leverage the significant historical investments in our capital equipment and providing for shared resources and other key benefits. All agreements with Hynix under which we obtain essential materials or services are multi-year contracts. We refer to the acquisition transaction, including the related definitive agreements with Hynix, as the “Original Acquisition.” See “Certain relationships and related transactions—the Original Acquisition.” RECENT DEVELOPMENTS On January 31, 2006, we completed the sale of our application processor business to ABOV Semiconductor Co., Ltd., a new independent entity formed by the investors in GreenChips Co., Ltd., a Korean semiconductor solution provider. We had entered into a definitive agreement for the sale on December 28, 2005. The application processor business primarily included assets, staff and intellectual property related to MagnaChip’s 8-bit and 32-bit microcontroller, SmartCard controller, microperipheral IC, and linear IC product lines. MagnaChip retained a three percent equity stake in the new entity. COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS We believe that our competitive strengths include: Leading Technology and Intellectual Property. We believe our advanced process technology and portfolio of approximately 11,900 registered and pending patents provide us with key competitive advantages in the following areas: CMOS image sensors: Our CMOS image sensors feature low power consumption and currently up to 3.2 megapixel resolution with auto-focus and auto-zoom options; features which provide important benefits to products incorporating our solutions, including increased battery life, enhanced image quality and ease of use. Flat panel display drivers: We believe that our flat panel display drivers offer superior performance in shaping image signals and transmitting those signals to flat panel displays. These technical features result in sharper, brighter and higher-quality colored images in our customers’ end products. Furthermore, we believe that our flat panel display drivers enable thinner and more power-efficient flat panels that are easily integrated by our customers into their products. Semiconductor manufacturing services: We have developed high-voltage, analog power and embedded memory specialty manufacturing process technologies that enable us to manufacture differentiated, high performance integrated semiconductor devices. For example, we developed the first high-voltage, high-performance CMOS 0.18 µm process, which enables us to manufacture more integrated, and thus smaller and more cost-efficient, semiconductor products. We believe that our proprietary process technology allows us to meet a wide variety of the specialty semiconductor manufacturing needs of our customers. Flexible In-House Manufacturing. Our in-house wafer manufacturing capacity allows us to provide dependable delivery and quality of integrated semiconductor products to our customers. We have the ability to ramp quickly to high volumes to meet the variable needs of our customers. We have significant wafer 3 Table of Contents manufacturing capacity as a result of our former parent’s investments in our wafer fabrication facilities. Because we offer specialty process technologies that do not require expensive investment in leading edge smaller geometry process equipment, we are able to keep our capital expenditures relatively low. Significant Cost Advantages. We maintain price competitiveness on our products through our low cost operating structure. The Asian location of our primary manufacturing and research and development facilities provides us with a number of cost advantages relative to operating in other regions in the world. Additionally, we believe that our history of competing in the highly cost-sensitive markets in which we operated when we were a unit of Hynix required us to refine our manufacturing processes for optimal cost efficiency. Established Relationships with Key Consumer Electronics OEMs. Our long history of operating in Asia and our proximity to leading communications and consumer OEMs facilitates our close customer relationships with leading innovators in the consumer electronics market. We have active local applications and engineering work support programs and collaborate closely with our customers in the design and manufacturing of their products. Significant Management and Board Expertise. Our management and board of directors have significant previous experience with advanced semiconductor companies both in Asia and worldwide. Our top executives have many years in equivalent positions at such leading companies as Hynix, Samsung, Fairchild Semiconductor, ChipPAC, and Agilent Technologies. In addition, two of our equity sponsors, CVC and Francisco Partners, have a long history of investments in semiconductor companies. We believe that their understanding of semiconductor system solutions, relationships, and credibility with key customers provides us with a key competitive advantage. BUSINESS STRATEGY Our goal is to build upon our position as a leading provider of mixed-signal and digital multimedia semiconductors addressing the convergence of consumer electronics and communications devices. Our business strategy emphasizes the following key elements: Leverage Our Substantial Intellectual Property. We intend to use our broad patent portfolio and specific end market expertise to deliver system-level products with higher levels of integration and performance to customers in our existing and new markets. In CMOS image sensors, we intend to leverage our strong pixel design and manufacturing expertise to introduce higher resolution, more integrated and cost-effective solutions for camera-equipped mobile handsets and to penetrate emerging applications for image sensors in the automotive, medical and industrial markets over time. In flat panel display drivers, we intend to leverage our broad library of circuit building blocks, our embedded memory capabilities, our understanding of the major flat panel display types and our process technology to continue to reduce time to market and introduce new products that enhance image quality and operate with greater power efficiency. Our manufacturing process expertise and related intellectual property underlies and supports many of the advances in our technology. Strengthen Collaboration With Key Customers. We intend to continue strengthening and deepening relationships with our key customers by collaborating on critical design and product development roadmaps. We believe such collaborative relationships will solidify our position with our customers, further our competitive differentiation and accelerate our drive for deeper customer and new market penetration. For example, close collaboration with our mobile handset customers has allowed us to deliver improved interfaces between baseband and image processors, which have resulted in solutions with smaller form factor and improved image quality. Increase Large Account Penetration. We have a global customer base consisting of leading consumer electronics OEMs and contract manufacturers. Many of our customers have multiple product variations that use image-capture and processing. We will seek to increase our customer penetration by taking advantage of our broad product portfolio and existing relationships to cross-sell existing products to our customers and to penetrate product variations where our solutions are currently not used. Broaden Our Customer Base. We intend to expand our customer base across various applications and geographic locations by leveraging our position as a supplier to many of the largest global consumer electronics 4 Table of Contents companies and delivering to potential customers proven, innovative solutions. We also believe that as consumer electronics and communications applications converge and proliferate, we will increasingly have opportunities to sell our products into new markets such as the automotive, medical and industrial markets. We also intend to expand our global sales presence to penetrate new accounts worldwide and grow existing account relationships. We will leverage our sales representatives and distributors located in Korea, Japan, China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Germany, Italy, France, the United Kingdom and the United States to further these goals. Leverage Our Capital Light Business Model. We acquired significant proprietary process technologies and wafer manufacturing capacity from our former parent, Hynix. We intend to leverage these investments made by Hynix to drive our growth and margin improvement. Furthermore, we plan to continue to keep our capital expenditures relatively low by maintaining our focus on specialty process technologies that do not require expensive investment in leading edge technologies. If needed, we will access other foundries that provide such technology in the future. We believe this approach will lead to a higher return on invested capital. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES We have a balanced portfolio of products that address many of the most rapidly growing consumer electronics markets. We provide products and services in the following three principal areas: CMOS image sensors, flat panel display drivers, and wafer foundry services. CMOS Image Sensors. Our highly integrated image sensors are designed to be cost effective and to provide brighter, sharper, more colorful and, thus enhanced, image quality for use primarily in applications that require small form factors, low power consumption, effective heat dissipation and high reliability. Our image sensors fully satisfy these key criteria and are used in image capture applications such as camera-equipped mobile handsets and personal computer cameras. Our in-house manufacturing capabilities enable us to continuously fine tune our CMOS process technology to deliver improved image-capture sensitivity and accuracy. CMOS image sensors are typically less expensive to produce and consume less power than other types of image sensors. Historically, CMOS image sensors were primarily used for low-cost applications for which high-image quality was not a priority. Recently, advances in semiconductor manufacturing processes and design techniques have led to improvements in CMOS image sensor performance and quality. As a result, CMOS image sensors have become useful, relatively low-cost solutions for use in applications such as camera-equipped mobile handsets and PDAs, where high-image quality, low power consumption, small size and low-cost are important considerations. According to iSuppli, total worldwide image sensor revenue is expected to grow from $6.4 billion to $8.4 billion from 2005 to 2009, while unit shipments for area sensors such as our products will grow from 632 million units in 2005 to 1.1 billion units in 2009. Image sensor revenues for mobile communications are forecasted by iSuppli to grow from 28.7% of the total revenue in 2005 to 50.8% by 2009. Conversely, revenues for consumer electronics will drop from 45.9% to 26.2% of the total. The CMOS image sensor market is primarily driven by sales of camera-equipped mobile handsets. According to iSuppli, camera-equipped mobile handsets are the dominant application for CMOS image sensors and account for 89% and 86% of total shipments in 2005 and 2009 respectively. CMOS image sensor market for camera-equipped mobile handsets is predicted to increase from 435 million units in 2005 to 827 million units by 2009. Our CMOS image sensors are characterized by a high level of integration. Many CMOS image sensors systems are made up of at least two integrated circuits: the CMOS image sensor itself and a separate image signal processor, or ISP. With the continuing demand for ever smaller camera-enabled devices, small size has become an increasingly important consideration for manufacturers of camera phones and similar products. Our products meet this demand for smaller form factors by integrating both our proprietary image sensor and image signal processor onto a single chip, thus occupying approximately half of the space required by multiple chip solutions, while providing equivalent or even superior image quality with lower power consumption and a lower overall cost. 5 Table of Contents We offer CMOS image sensors with resolutions of VGA, 1.0MP (megapixels), 1.2MP, 1.3MP, 2.1MP and 3.2MP. Our solutions enable small form factor camera module implementations which are required for today’s demanding industrial designs, such as very thin mobile phones. All of our solutions support both video and still capture modes, and provide sub-sampling modes to enable preview modes of operation with reduced power consumption. The choice of resolution by an OEM customer may involve many factors such as size, power and cost target. By offering a full line of solutions, we can service our customer’s requirements across the multiple end products they may offer. Flat Panel Display Drivers. Our flat panel display driver solutions are used in a wide variety of displays for mass market and commercial applications such as mobile handsets, handheld gaming devices, PDAs, displays for desktop and mobile computer monitors and flat panel televisions. We produce highly integrated flat panel display driver solutions and have pioneered developments in embedded memory and in the design and manufacturing of display drivers, enabling our customers to provide improved picture quality through thinner, smaller, more power-efficient displays. Display drivers are the critical semiconductor components that enable the display’s functionality. A display driver operates by interfacing with the host processor to generate the precise analog voltages and currents required to create images on the display. The performance characteristics of a display driver are critical to the quality and visual appeal of the images and text generated on the display and, in mobile devices, the power efficiency of the device. Our display drivers are highly integrated semiconductors that are customized for the particular needs of our customers. We believe that our design engineering expertise, technology leadership, manufacturing process expertise and library of functional building blocks produce display drivers that enable a wide variety of display types with high-impact visual performance. The overall end market for flat panel display drivers is composed of a multitude of consumer electronics device markets such as television, laptop and desktop computers and portable consumer devices, including mobile handsets. This overall market can be broken down into several distinct sub-markets which we serve. These sub-markets include large panel TFTs, typically used in flat panel televisions and computer displays, small panel TFTs, typically used in mobile handsets, OLEDs and Color STNs. According to DisplaySearch, total worldwide flat panel display market unit shipments are projected to grow from 2.24 billion units in 2005 to 2.8 billion units in 2008. We provide display drivers for use in several different types of display technologies and for a variety of end-market applications as discussed below. TFT-LCD. TFT is an advanced active matrix LCD technology that uses a matrix of transistors embedded on a thin film of silicon to change the transparency of the LCD when voltage is applied. TFT-LCD technology is currently widely used for notebook computers and large scale flat panel monitors (Large TFT) as well as for displays for high-end mobile devices such as advanced mobile handsets (Small TFT). We currently provide Large TFT display drivers for use in mobile and desktop computer displays and in stand-alone flat panel television displays. We also provide Small TFT display drivers for use in mobile handsets, PDAs and in other consumer devices such as handheld gaming devices. Color STN. Color STN is a low-power, low-cost solution based on passive matrix LCD technology and is widely used in color mobile displays available in the market today. Our Color STN display drivers are used in mobile applications such as mobile handsets, PDAs and handheld gaming devices. Organic Light Emitting Diode or OLED. OLED is a relatively new display technology used in both mobile displays as well as in larger displays. OLED technology provides enhanced picture quality, low power consumption and long product life; it also has fast image response time, making it an ideal solution for displaying motion pictures on mobile devices. We currently offer display drivers for OLED displays used in mobile handsets and other mobile devices. Semiconductor Manufacturing Services. We provide semiconductor manufacturing services primarily to semiconductor companies that do not have their own fabs. We target the market for diversified semiconductor 6 Table of Contents products that require differentiated specialty process technologies for their manufacture including CMOS high-voltage, embedded memory, analog, power, and mixed-signal processes, which in general are not targeted by high-volume pure-play participants in the foundry market. We focus on specialty process technologies that do not require significant recurring capital investment, and we are able to better differentiate ourselves through the depth of our intellectual property portfolio and process technology skills. The increasing trend toward the outsourcing of semiconductor manufacturing has resulted in a rapid increase in the size of this market. According to iSuppli, the worldwide foundry service market is projected to grow from in excess of $21.8 billion in 2005 to $39.2 billion in 2009, a compound annual growth rate of 15.8%. Typical applications serviced by our semiconductor manufacturing services business are mixed-signal, high-voltage, power, and logic products for consumer, computer, network and communication, industrial and military end-markets. Our internal wafer fab facilities serve both our in-house product design groups and external foundry customers, allowing for both specialty process technology expertise and flexible manufacturing capacity. We target to be the primary-source provider of semiconductor manufacturing services for specialty process technologies for our foundry customers. CUSTOMERS During the year ended December 31, 2005, we sold over 1,800 products to more than 300 customers. In the year ended December 31, 2005, our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 57.7% of our net sales. In the year ended December 31, 2005, our two largest customers, a group of LG affiliates including LG.Philips LCD, and a group of Samsung affiliates, represented 26.4% and 10.0% of our net sales, respectively. See “Risk Factors—A significant portion of our sales comes from a relatively limited number of customers.” Revenue classified by geography is determined by the headquarters locations of our customers. During the three-month period ended December 31, 2004, we received revenues of $9.3 million from external customers in the United States and $234.3 million from all foreign countries, of which 54.3% was from Korea, 16.2% from Japan, 12.8% from Taiwan, and 13.5% from China, Hong Kong, and Macau. During the year ended December 31, 2005, we received revenues of $45.5 million from external customers in the United States and $892.2 million from all foreign countries, of which 57.4% was from Korea, 11.0% from Japan, 16.0% from Taiwan, and 11.8% from China, Hong Kong, and Macau. SALES, MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION We sell our products through a direct sales force and a network of authorized agents and distributors located throughout Asia, the United States, and Europe. We have strategically located our sales and technical support offices near concentrations of major customers. Our direct sales force consists primarily of representatives located in our headquarters in Korea, as well as representatives located elsewhere throughout Asia, the United States, and Europe. Our network of authorized agents and distributors consists of agents in the United States and Europe and distributors and agents in the Asia Pacific region. During the year ended December 31, 2005, we derived approximately 68% of net sales through our direct sales force and 32% of net sales through our network of authorized agents and distributors. Our product inventory is primarily located in Korea. Outside of Korea, we maintain limited amounts of product inventory, and our sales representatives generally relay orders to our headquarters for fulfillment. Some of the product inventory maintained by sales representatives is subject to return privileges or stock rotation. Our agreements with our authorized agents and distributors are usually terminable by either party on relatively short notice. 7 Table of Contents RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Our expenditures for research and development were $107.6 million, representing 11.5% of net sales for the year ended December, 31, 2005, and $97.8 million, representing 9.0% of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2004. Our research and development efforts focus on process technology, design methodology and intellectual property for our semiconductor products and foundry services. As a result, we have implemented improvements to our manufacturing processes, design software and design libraries, including releasing our 0.18 µm high-voltage process and library. We also work closely with our major customers in many research and development activities, including joint intellectual property development, to increase the likelihood that our products will be more easily designed into the customers’ products and consequently achieve rapid and lasting market acceptance. In CMOS image sensors, we are focusing on pixel size reduction, thereby enabling smaller form factors and higher resolution sensors. In flat panel display drivers, we are focusing on further integration. In semiconductor manufacturing services, our research and development work allows us to add features such as mixed-signal, high voltage, embedded memory and power devices. RAW MATERIALS We use processes that require specialized raw materials that are generally available from a limited number of suppliers. We are currently attempting to qualify additional suppliers for many of our raw materials, including chemicals, gases, and tape, which is one of the process materials for our display drivers. Although we have not experienced any significant raw material shortages in the past, it is possible that going forward our business and results of operations could be adversely affected due to supply shortages or price increases for raw materials. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY As of March 7, 2006, our portfolio of intellectual property assets included approximately 11,900 registered and pending patents. Our patents expire at various times over the next 18 years. While these patents are in the aggregate important to our competitive position, no single registered or pending patent is material to us. Pursuant to the intellectual property license agreement that we entered into with Hynix in connection with the Original Acquisition, we obtained from Hynix a non-exclusive license to certain intellectual property of Hynix that is mostly patent-related, and we granted to Hynix a non-exclusive license to certain of our intellectual property. Additionally, we have entered into exclusive and non-exclusive licenses and development agreements with third parties relating to the use of intellectual property of the third parties in our products and our design processes, including licenses related to embedded memory technology, design tools, process simulation tools, circuit designs, and ARM’s ARM7 and ARM9 core-based System-on-Chip. In addition, we rely on proprietary know-how, continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop products and maintain our competitive position. We attempt to protect our proprietary know-how and our other trade secrets by executing, when appropriate, confidentiality agreements with our customers and employees. We cannot assure you that our competitors will not discover comparable or the same knowledge and techniques through independent development or other means. COMPETITION We operate in highly competitive markets. Although no one company competes with us in all of our product lines, we face significant competition in each of our market segments. Our competitors include other manufacturers and designers of system semiconductors, standard products, and semi-standard programmable digital logic semiconductor products, as well as customers who design their own semiconductors that are manufactured at third party foundries. 8 Table of Contents We compete with other semiconductor providers based on design experience, the ability to service customer needs from the design phase to the shipping of a completed product, length of design cycle, longevity of technology support and sales and technical support personnel. Our ability to successfully compete depends on internal and external variables, both within and outside of our control. These variables include, but are not limited to, the timeliness with which we can develop new products and technologies, product performance and quality, manufacturing yields and availability, customer service, pricing, industry trends and general economic trends. EMPLOYEES Our worldwide workforce consisted of 3,858 employees (full- and part-time) as of March 1, 2006, of which 438 were involved in sales, general and administrative, 494 were in research and development, 110 were in quality, reliability and assurance and 2,816 were in manufacturing (comprised of 493 in engineering and 2,323 in operations). As of March 1, 2006, 2,389 employees, or approximately 62% of our workforce, were represented by the MagnaChip Semiconductor Labor Union, which is a member of the Federation of Korean Metal Workers Trade Unions. Currently, members of the Korea Federation of Trade Unions, representing the employees of two subcontractors that we retained for only three months in 2004, have demonstrated and may continue to demonstrate at our campus in Cheongju, Korea. The Korea Federation of Trade Unions is requesting that MagnaChip directly hire approximately 90 employees of the former subcontractors. These demonstrations have required additional interim expenses and may have a continuing negative impact on our operations in the future. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS Our operations are subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate, governing, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the generation, use, handling, storage and disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous substances (including asbestos) and wastes, soil and groundwater contamination and employee health and safety. These laws and regulations are complex, constantly changing and have tended to become more stringent over time. We cannot assure you that we have been, or will be at all times, in complete compliance with all these laws and regulations or that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with these laws and regulations in the future. The adoption of new environmental, health and safety laws, the failure to comply with new or existing laws, or issues relating to hazardous substances could subject us to material liability (including substantial fines or penalties), impose the need for additional capital equipment or other process requirements upon us, curtail our operations, or restrict our ability to expand operations. FOR MORE INFORMATION We file periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, including any amendments to these reports, are available on our website at www.magnachip.com. The public may also read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, or on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. For information on the operation of the Public Reference Room, please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 9 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry may limit our ability to maintain or increase net sales and profit levels during industry downturns. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and periodically experiences significant economic downturns characterized by diminished product demand, resulting in production overcapacity and excess inventory in the markets we serve, which can result in rapid erosion of average selling prices. The industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both semiconductor companies’ and their customers’ products and the decline in general economic conditions. We have experienced these conditions in our business in the past and may experience renewed, and possibly more severe and prolonged, downturns in the future as a result of such cyclical changes. This may reduce our profitability and the value of our business. Customer demand is difficult to accurately forecast. We make significant decisions, including determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept, production schedules, component procurement commitments, personnel needs and other resource requirements, based on our estimates of customer requirements. The short-term nature of commitments by many of our customers and the possibility of rapid changes in demand for their products reduces our ability to accurately estimate future customer demand. On occasion, customers may require rapid increases in production, which can challenge our resources and reduce margins. We may not have sufficient capacity at any given time to meet our customers’ increased demand for our product. Conversely, downturns in the semiconductor industry may cause and have caused our customers to significantly reduce the amount of products ordered from us. Because many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand may decrease our gross margins and operating income. Our customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production. We generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. Customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production for a number of reasons. Cancellations, reductions or delays by a significant customer or by a group of customers, which we have experienced as a result of the recent downturn in the semiconductor industry, have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, while we do not obtain long-term purchase commitments, we generally agree to the pricing of a particular product for the entire lifecycle of the product, which can extend over a number of years. If we underestimate our costs when determining the pricing, our margins and results of operations would be adversely affected. A significant portion of our sales comes from a relatively limited number of customers. If we were to lose key customers or if customers cease to place orders for our high volume devices, our financial results will be adversely affected. While we served more than 300 customers in the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2005, net sales to our 10 largest customers represented approximately 57.7% of our net sales for the period. We had one individual customer and two groups of affiliated customers that each represented greater than 10% of our net sales during the year ended December 31, 2005. Significant reductions in sales to any of these customers, the loss of major customers or the curtailment of orders for our high-volume devices within a short period of time would adversely affect our business. Our industry is highly competitive. The semiconductor industry is highly competitive and includes hundreds of companies, a number of which have achieved substantial market share. Current and prospective customers for our products evaluate our 10 Table of Contents capabilities against the merits of our direct competitors. Some of our competitors are well-established as independent companies and have substantially greater market share and manufacturing, financial, research and development and marketing resources than we do. We also compete with emerging companies that are attempting to sell their products in specialized markets, and with the internal capabilities of many of our significant customers. We expect to experience continuing competitive pressures in our markets from existing competitors and new entrants. Any consolidation among our competitors could enhance their product offerings and financial resources, further enhancing their competitive position. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including the following: our ability to offer cost effective products on a timely basis using our technologies; our ability to accurately identify and respond to emerging technological trends and demand for product features and performance characteristics; product introductions by our competitors; our ability to adopt or adapt to emerging industry standards; and the number and nature of our competitors in a given market. Many of these factors are outside of our control. In the future, our competitors may capture our existing or potential customers and our customers may satisfy more of their requirements internally. As a result, we may experience declining revenues and profits. A decline in average selling prices could decrease our profits. In the past, our industry has experienced a decline in average selling prices. A decline in average selling prices for our products, if not offset by reductions in the costs of producing such products, would decrease our gross profits and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Growth in the consumer electronics and other end markets for our products is an important component in our success. Our continued success will depend in part on the growth of various consumer electronics markets and other end markets that use our semiconductors and on general economic growth. To the extent that we cannot offset recessionary periods or periods of reduced growth that may occur in these markets through greater penetration of these markets, our sales may decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer as a result. We depend on successful technological advances for growth. Our industry is subject to rapid technological change and product obsolescence as customers and competitors create new and innovative products and technologies. Products or technologies developed by other companies may render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive and we may not be able to access leading edge process technologies or to license or otherwise obtain essential intellectual property required by our customers. Our inability to continue identifying new product opportunities, or manufacturing technologically advanced products on a cost-effective basis, may result in decreased revenues and a loss of market share to our competitors. We may not be able to attract or retain the technical or management employees necessary to remain competitive in our industry. We depend on our ability to attract and retain skilled technical and managerial personnel. We could lose the services of, or fail to recruit, skilled personnel, which could hinder our research and product development programs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. If we encounter future labor problems, we may fail to deliver our products in a timely manner which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. As of March 1, 2006, approximately 62% of our employees were represented by the MagnaChip Semiconductor Labor Union, which is a member of the Federation of Korean Metal Workers Trade Unions. We 11 Table of Contents cannot assure you that issues with the labor union and other employees will be resolved favorably for us in the future, that we will not experience significant work stoppages in future years or that we will not record significant charges related to those work stoppages. We may incur costs to engage in future business combinations or strategic investments and the anticipated benefits of those transactions may not be realized. As part of our business strategy, we may seek to enter into business combinations, investments, joint ventures and other strategic alliances with other companies in order to maintain and grow revenue and market presence as well as to provide us with access to technology, products and services. Those transactions would be accompanied by risks that may harm our business, such as difficulties in assimilating the operations, personnel and products of an acquired business or in realizing the projected benefits; disruption of our ongoing business; potential increases in our indebtedness and contingent liabilities; and charges if the acquired company or assets are later worth less than the amount paid for them in the Original Acquisition. In addition, our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our notes may prohibit us from making acquisitions that we may otherwise wish to pursue. We depend on high utilization of our manufacturing capacity. As many of our costs are fixed, a reduction in capacity utilization, together with other factors such as yield and product mix, could reduce our profit margins and adversely affect our operating results. A number of factors and circumstances may reduce utilization rates, including periods of industry overcapacity, low levels of customer orders, operating inefficiencies, mechanical failures and disruption of operations due to expansion or relocation of operations, power interruptions, fire, flood or other natural disasters or calamities. The failure to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields could adversely affect our business. The manufacture of semiconductors requires precision, a highly-regulated and sterile environment and expensive equipment. We may have difficulty achieving acceptable yields in the manufacture of our products. Slight impurities or defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer or other factors can cause significant difficulties, particularly in connection with the production of a new product, the adoption of a new manufacturing process or any expansion of our manufacturing capacity and related transitions. We rely on certain subcontractors. The majority of our net sales are derived from semiconductor devices assembled in advanced packages. The packaging of semiconductors is a complex process requiring, among other things, a high degree of technical skill and advanced equipment. We outsource our semiconductor packaging to subcontractors, most of which are located in Korea and Southeast Asia. We rely on these subcontractors to package our devices with acceptable quality and yield levels. If our semiconductor packagers experience problems in packaging our semiconductor devices or experience prolonged quality or yield problems, our operating results could be adversely affected. We depend on successful parts and materials procurement for our manufacturing processes. We use a wide range of parts and materials in the production of our semiconductors, including silicon, processing chemicals, processing gases, precious metals and electronic and mechanical components. We procure materials and electronic and mechanical components from domestic and foreign sources and original equipment manufacturers. As a division of Hynix, we were able to take advantage of Hynix’s size and purchasing power in procuring parts and materials. As an independent company, we are smaller and less diversified than Hynix, and we may be unable to obtain parts and materials at prices and on terms as favorable as those available to us prior to the separation from Hynix in October 2004. If we cannot obtain adequate materials in a timely manner or on favorable terms for the manufacture of our products, either or both of our revenues or profits will decline. 12 Table of Contents We face product liability risks and the risk of negative publicity if our products fail. Our semiconductors are incorporated into a number of end products, and our business is exposed to product liability risk and the risk of negative publicity if our products fail. Although we maintain insurance for product liability claims, the amount and scope of our insurance may not be adequate to cover a product liability claim that is asserted against us. In addition, product liability insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and, in the future, may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, we are exposed to the product liability risk and the risk of negative publicity affecting our customers and suppliers. Our sales may decline if any of our customers are sued on a product liability claim. We may also suffer a decline in sales from the negative publicity associated with such a lawsuit or with adverse public perceptions in general regarding our customers’ products. Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology, as well as our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We seek to protect our proprietary technologies and know-how through the use of patents, trade secrets, confidentiality agreements and other security measures. The process of seeking patent protection takes a long time and is expensive. We cannot assure you that patents will issue from pending or future applications or that, if patents issue, they will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights granted under the patents will provide us with meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. Some of our technologies are not covered by any patent or patent application. The confidentiality agreements on which we rely may be breached and may not be adequate to protect our proprietary technologies. We cannot assure you that other countries in which we market our services will protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States. Our ability to compete successfully depends on our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We have no means of knowing what patent applications have been filed in the United States until they are published. In addition, the semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Although we have never received any notices of infringement of a third party patent, we cannot assure you that third parties will not tender notices of patent infringement or assert infringement claims against us in the future. Litigation, which could result in substantial costs to us and diversion of our resources, may also be necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others. In the event of an adverse outcome in any such litigation, we may be required to pay substantial damages, indemnify customers for damages they may suffer if the products they purchase from us violate the intellectual property rights of others, stop our manufacture, use, sale or importation of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies, discontinue processes or obtain licenses to the intellectual property we are found to have infringed. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in such development or acquisition or that such licenses would be available under reasonable terms, or at all. As a business segment of Hynix, we were the beneficiary of some of Hynix’s intellectual property arrangements, including cross-licensing arrangements with other leading semiconductor companies and licenses from third parties of technology incorporated in our products and used to operate our business. We are no longer a beneficiary under some of these agreements and arrangements. There may be third parties who had refrained from asserting intellectual property infringement claims against our products or processes while we were a business segment of Hynix that elect to pursue such claims against us now that we are an independent company. In addition, some of our technologies have been sublicensed from Hynix on a non-exclusive basis and Hynix may sublicense such technologies to others. We have cross-licensed most of our technologies to Hynix. This cross-license is subject to the non-competition provision of the Hynix business transfer agreement. Our competitors may develop, patent or gain access to similar know-how and technology. Failure to protect our 13 Table of Contents existing intellectual property rights may result in the loss of valuable technologies or having to pay other companies for infringing on their intellectual property rights. We are subject to many environmental laws and regulations that could affect our operations or result in significant expenses. We are subject to requirements of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate, governing, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the generation, use, handling, storage and disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous substances (including asbestos) and wastes, soil and groundwater contamination and employee health and safety. These laws and regulations are complex, constantly changing and have tended to become more stringent over time. We cannot assure you that we have been, or will be at all times, in complete compliance with all these laws and regulations or that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with these laws and regulations in the future. The adoption of new environmental, health and safety laws, the failure to comply with new or existing laws, or issues relating to hazardous substances could subject us to material liability (including substantial fines or penalties), impose the need for additional capital equipment or other process requirements upon us, curtail our operations, or restrict our ability to expand operations. We could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences as a result of changes in, or differences in the interpretation of, applicable tax laws. Our company organizational structure is based, in part, on assumptions about the various tax laws, including withholding tax, and other laws of applicable non-U.S. jurisdictions. In addition, MagnaChip Korea was granted a limited tax-holiday under Korean law in October 2004, which provides for certain tax exemptions for corporate taxes, withholding tax, acquisition taxes, property and land taxes and other taxes for five years. Our interpretations and conclusions are not binding on any taxing authority, and, if our assumptions about tax and other laws are incorrect or if the authorities were to change or modify the relevant laws, we could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences or have the anticipated benefits of our company organizational structure materially impaired. A limited number of persons indirectly control us. CVC, Francisco Partners, and CVC Asia Pacific, own approximately 34%, 34% and 18%, respectively, of the outstanding voting interests in MagnaChip. By virtue of their ownership of these voting interests, and the securityholders’ agreement among MagnaChip and its unitholders, these entities have significant influence over our management and will be able to determine the outcome of all matters required to be submitted to the unitholders for approval, including the election of a majority of our directors and the approval of mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. We may need additional capital in the future and it may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We may require more capital in the future to fund our operations, finance investments in equipment and infrastructure, and respond to competitive pressures and potential strategic opportunities. Additional capital may not be available when needed or, if available, may not be available on satisfactory terms. If we are unable to obtain capital on favorable terms, or if we are unable to obtain capital at all, we may have to reduce our operations or forego opportunities and it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our international operations are subject to various risks that may lead to decreases in financial results. We face risks inherent in international operations, such as unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other market barriers, political, social and economic instability, adverse tax consequences, war, civil disturbances and acts of terrorism, difficulties in accounts receivables collection, extended payment terms and 14 Table of Contents differing labor standards, enforcement of contractual obligations and protection of intellectual property. These risks may lead to increased costs or decreased revenue growth, or both. We are subject to risks associated with currency fluctuations. Our revenues are denominated in various currencies, specifically, the Korean Won, Japanese Yen, Euro and U.S. dollar. As a result, changes in the exchange rates of these currencies or any other applicable currencies to the U.S. dollar will affect the translated price of products and therefore operating margins and could result in exchange losses. The majority of our costs are denominated in Korean Won and to a lesser extent in Japanese Yen, U.S. dollar and Euro. Therefore, changes in the exchange rates of these currencies or any other applicable currencies to the U.S. dollar will affect cost of goods sold and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. We cannot fully predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our profitability. From time to time, we may have engaged in, and may continue to engage in, exchange rate hedging activities in an effort to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations. However, we cannot assure you that any hedging technique we implement will be effective. If it is not effective, we may experience reduced operating margins. Our historical financial information may not be representative of our results as a separate company. Prior to the Original Acquisition, we operated as a division of Hynix. Historical financial information for periods prior to September 30, 2004, has been derived from Hynix’s consolidated financial statements, is presented on a carve-out basis and does not necessarily reflect what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been had we been a separate, stand-alone company during the periods presented. As carve-out financial statements, the financial statements include allocations of the costs of shared activities and overhead of Hynix and of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment shared with Hynix. These allocations are based upon various assumptions and estimates, some of which are subjective. Actual results of our operations had we operated on a stand-alone basis, may differ from those allocations and estimates. Also, as part of the Original Acquisition we did not acquire certain assets that were included in the carve-out financial statements and we assumed certain additional costs and obligations that are not reflected in the carve-out financial statements. Accordingly, the carve-out financial statements should not be relied upon as being representative of our financial position or operating results had we operated on a stand-alone basis, nor may they be representative of our financial position or operating results following the Original Acquisition. Our expenses could increase if Hynix were unwilling or unable to provide certain services related to our shared facilities with Hynix. Because we share certain facilities with Hynix, a few services that are essential to our business are provided to us by or through Hynix. These services include electricity, bulk gasses and de-ionized water, campus facilities, wastewater and sewage management, and environmental safety. If any of our agreements with Hynix were terminated or if Hynix were unwilling or unable to fulfill its obligations to us under the terms of these agreements, we would have to procure these services on our own and as a result may experience an increase in our expenses. In addition, we lease building and warehouse space from Hynix in Cheongju, Korea, and lease to Hynix some of the space we own in Cheongju, Korea. If Hynix were to become insolvent, we could lose our leases on some of our building and warehouse space. Research and development investments may not yield profitable and commercially viable products and thus will not necessarily result in increases in revenues for us. We invest significant resources in our research and development. However, research and development efforts may not yield commercially viable products. During each stage of research and development there is a 15 Table of Contents substantial risk that we will have to abandon a potential product which is no longer marketable and in which we have invested significant resources. In the event we are able to develop viable new products, a significant amount of time will have elapsed between our investment in the necessary research and development effort and the receipt of any related revenues. Investor confidence may be adversely impacted if we are unable to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Beginning with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, we will be subject to rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which require us to include in our Annual Report on Form 10-K our management’s report on, and assessment of the effectiveness of, our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, our independent auditors will be required to attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, there is a risk that we will not comply with all of the requirements imposed by Section 404. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. Any of these possible outcomes could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could harm our business and could negatively impact the market price of our securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 