Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in this Report. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. As a result, the price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those currently viewed by us to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns that may negatively impact our results of operations. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change and price erosion, evolving technical standards, short product life cycles (for semiconductors and for the end-user products in which they are used) and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. From time to time, these and other factors, together with changes in general economic conditions, cause significant upturns and downturns in the industry in general and in our business in particular. Periods of industry downturns, including the recent economic downturn, have been characterized by diminished demand for end-user products, high inventory levels, underutilization of manufacturing capacity, changes in revenue mix and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. We have experienced these conditions in our business in the past and may experience renewed, and possibly more severe and prolonged, downturns in the future as a result of such cyclical changes. This may reduce our results of operations. We base our planned operating expenses in part on our expectations of future revenue, and a significant portion of our expenses is relatively fixed in the short term. If revenue for a particular quarter is lower than we expect, we likely will be unable to proportionately reduce our operating expenses for that quarter, which would harm our operating results for that quarter. If we fail to develop new products and process technologies or enhance our existing products and services in order to react to rapid technological change and market demands, our business will suffer. Our industry is subject to constant and rapid technological change and product obsolescence as customers and competitors create new and innovative products and technologies. Products or technologies developed by other companies may render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive, and we may not be able to access advanced process technologies, including smaller geometries, or to license or otherwise obtain essential intellectual property required by our customers. We must develop new products and services and enhance our existing products and services to meet rapidly evolving customer requirements. We design products for customers who continually require higher performance and functionality at lower costs. We must, therefore, continue to enhance the performance and functionality of our products. The development process for these advancements is lengthy and requires us to accurately anticipate technological changes and market trends. Developing and enhancing these products is uncertain and can be time-consuming, costly and complex. If we do not continue to develop and maintain process technologies that are in demand by our Semiconductor Manufacturing Services customers, we may be unable to maintain existing customers or attract new customers. Customer and market requirements can change during the development process. There is a risk that these developments and enhancements will be late, fail to meet customer or market specifications or not be competitive 18 Table of Contents with products or services from our competitors that offer comparable or superior performance and functionality. Any new products, such as our expanding line of power management solutions, or product or service enhancements, may not be accepted in new or existing markets. Our business will suffer if we fail to develop and introduce new products and services or product and service enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. We manufacture our products based on our estimates of customer demand, and if our estimates are incorrect our financial results could be negatively impacted. We make significant decisions, including determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept, production schedules, component procurement commitments, personnel needs and other resource requirements, based on our estimates of customer demand and expected demand for and success of their products. The short-term nature of commitments by many of our customers and the possibility of rapid changes in demand for their products reduces our ability to estimate accurately future customer demand for our products. On occasion, customers may require rapid increases in supply, which can challenge our production resources and reduce margins. We may not have sufficient capacity at any given time to meet our customers’ increased demand for our products. Conversely, downturns in the semiconductor industry have caused and may in the future cause our customers to reduce significantly the amount of products they order from us. Because many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand would decrease our results of operations, including our gross profit. Our customers may cancel their orders, reduce quantities or delay production, which would adversely affect our margins and results of operations. We generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. Customers may cancel their orders, reduce quantities or delay production for a number of reasons. Cancellations, reductions or delays by a significant customer or by a group of customers, which we have experienced as a result of periodic downturns in the semiconductor industry or failure to achieve design wins, have affected and may continue to affect our results of operations adversely. These risks are exacerbated because many of our products are customized, which hampers our ability to sell excess inventory to the general market. We may incur charges resulting from the write-off of obsolete inventory. In addition, while we do not obtain long-term purchase commitments, we generally agree to the pricing of a particular product over a set period of time. If we underestimate our costs when determining pricing, our margins and results of operations would be adversely affected. We depend on high utilization of our manufacturing capacity, a reduction of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and the results of our operations. An important factor in our success is the extent to which we are able to utilize the available capacity in our fabrication facilities. As many of our costs are fixed, a reduction in capacity utilization, as well as changes in other factors, such as reduced yield or unfavorable product mix, could reduce our profit margins and adversely affect our operating results. A number of factors and circumstances may reduce utilization rates, including periods of industry overcapacity, low levels of customer orders, operating inefficiencies, mechanical failures and disruption of operations due to expansion or relocation of operations, power interruptions and fire, flood or other natural disasters or calamities. The potential delays and costs resulting from these steps could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our sales comes from a relatively limited number of customers, the loss of which would adversely affect our financial results. Historically, we have relied on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our total revenue. If we were to lose key customers or if customers cease to place orders for our high-volume products or services, our financial results would be adversely affected. For the years ended December 31, 2012, and December 31, 2011, our ten largest customers accounted for 63% and 63% of our net sales, respectively, and we had one 19 Table of Contents customer representing 11% and 15% of our consolidated net sales for the years ended December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. Substantially all of our sales to our largest customer are in our Display Solutions segment and sales to the largest customer represented 31% and 34% of net sales in our Display Solutions segment in the years ended December 31, 2012, and December 31, 2011, respectively. Significant reductions in sales to any of these customers, especially our few largest customers, the loss of other major customers or a general curtailment in orders for our high-volume products or services within a short period of time would adversely affect our business. The average selling prices of our semiconductor products have at times declined rapidly and will likely do so in the future, which could harm our revenue and gross profit. The semiconductor products we develop and sell are subject to rapid declines in average selling prices. From time to time, we have had to reduce our prices significantly to meet customer requirements, and we may be required to reduce our prices in the future. This would cause our gross profit to decrease. Our financial results will suffer if we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, reducing our costs or developing new or enhanced products on a timely basis with higher selling prices or gross profit. Our industry is highly competitive and our ability to compete could be negatively impacted by a variety of factors. The semiconductor industry is highly competitive and includes hundreds of companies, a number of which have achieved substantial market share both within our product categories and end markets. Current and prospective customers for our products and services evaluate our capabilities against the merits of our competitors. Some of our competitors are well established as independent companies and have substantially greater market share and manufacturing, financial, research and development and marketing resources than we do. We also compete with emerging companies that are attempting to sell their products in certain of our end markets and with the internal semiconductor design and manufacturing capabilities of many of our significant customers. We expect to experience continuing competitive pressures in our markets from existing competitors and new entrants. Any consolidation among our competitors could enhance their product offerings and financial resources, further enhancing their competitive position. Our ability to compete will depend on a number of factors, including the following: • our ability to offer cost-effective and high quality products and services on a timely basis using our technologies; • our ability to accurately identify and respond to emerging technological trends and demand for product features and performance characteristics; • our ability to continue to rapidly introduce new products that are accepted by the market; • our ability to adopt or adapt to emerging industry standards; • the number and nature of our competitors and competitiveness of their products and services in a given market; • entrance of new competitors into our markets; • our ability to enter the highly competitive power management market; and • our ability to continue to offer in demand semiconductor manufacturing services at competitive prices. Many of these factors are outside of our control. In the future, our competitors may replace us as a supplier to our existing or potential customers, and our customers may satisfy more of their requirements internally. As a result, we may experience declining revenues and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Changes in demand for consumer electronics in our end markets can impact our results of operations. Demand for our products will depend in part on the demand for various consumer electronics products, in particular, mobile phones and multimedia devices, digital televisions, flat panel displays, mobile PCs and digital cameras, which in turn depends on general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. If our customers fail to introduce new products that employ our products or component parts, demand for our products will suffer. To the extent that we cannot offset periods of reduced demand that may occur in these markets through greater penetration of these markets or reduction in our production and costs, our sales and gross profit may decline, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to achieve design wins for our semiconductor products, we may lose the opportunity for sales to customers for a significant period of time and be unable to recoup our investments in our products. We expend considerable resources on winning competitive selection processes, known as design wins, to develop semiconductor products for use in our customers’ products. These selection processes are typically lengthy and can require us to incur significant design and development expenditures. We may not win the competitive selection process and may never generate any revenue despite incurring significant design and development expenditures. Once a customer designs a semiconductor into a product, that customer is likely to continue to use the same semiconductor or enhanced versions of that semiconductor from the same supplier across a number of similar and successor products for a lengthy period of time due to the significant costs associated with qualifying a new supplier and potentially redesigning the product to incorporate a different semiconductor. If we fail to achieve an initial design win in a customer’s qualification process, we may lose the opportunity for significant sales to that customer for a number of products and for a lengthy period of time. This may cause us to be unable to recoup our investments in our semiconductor products, which would harm our business. We have lengthy and expensive design-to-mass production and manufacturing process development cycles that may cause us to incur significant expenses without realizing meaningful sales, the occurrence of which would harm our business. The cycle time from the design stage to mass production for some of our products is long and requires the investment of significant resources with many potential customers without any guarantee of sales. Our design-to-mass production cycle typically begins with a three-to-twelve month semiconductor development stage and test period followed by a three-to-twelve month end-product qualification period by our customers. The fairly lengthy front end of our sales cycle creates a risk that we may incur significant expenses but may be unable to realize meaningful sales. Moreover, prior to mass production, customers may decide to cancel their products or change production specifications, resulting in sudden changes in our product specifications, increasing our production time and costs. Failure to meet such specifications may also delay the launch of our products or result in lost sales. In addition, we collaborate and jointly develop certain process technologies and manufacturing process flows custom to certain of our Semiconductor Manufacturing Services customers. To the extent that our Semiconductor Manufacturing Services customers fail to achieve market acceptance for their products, we may be unable to recoup our engineering resources commitment and our investment in process technology development, which would harm our business. Research and development investments may not yield profitable and commercially viable product and service offerings and thus will not necessarily result in increases in revenues for us. We invest significant resources in our research and development. Our research and development efforts, however, may not yield commercially viable products or enhance our Semiconductor Manufacturing Services offerings. During each stage of research and development there is a substantial risk that we will have to abandon a potential product or service offering that is no longer marketable and in which we have invested significant 21 Table of Contents resources. In the event we are able to develop viable new products or service offerings, a significant amount of time will have elapsed between our investment in the necessary research and development effort and the receipt of any related revenues. We face numerous challenges relating to executing our growth strategy, and if we are unable to execute our growth strategy effectively, our business and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. Our growth strategy is to leverage our advanced analog and mixed-signal technology platform, continue to innovate and deliver new products and services, increase business with existing customers, broaden our customer base, aggressively grow our power business, drive execution excellence and focus on specialty process technologies. If we are unable to execute our growth strategy effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business plan or respond to competitive pressures. Moreover, if our allocation of resources does not correspond with future demand for particular products, we could miss market opportunities and our business and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to risks associated with currency fluctuations, and changes in the exchange rates of applicable currencies could impact our results of operations. Historically, a portion of our revenues and greater than the majority of our operating expenses and costs of sales have been denominated in non-U.S. currencies, principally the Korean won, and we expect that this will remain true in the future. Because we report our results of operations in U.S. dollars, changes in the exchange rate between the Korean won and the U.S. dollar could materially impact our reported results of operations and distort period to period comparisons. In particular, because of the difference in the amount of our consolidated revenues and expenses that are in U.S. dollars relative to Korean won, a depreciation in the U.S. dollar relative to the Korean won could result in a material increase in reported costs relative to revenues, and therefore could cause our profit margins and operating income to appear to decline materially, particularly relative to prior periods. The converse is true if the U.S. dollar were to appreciate relative to the Korean won. For example, foreign currency fluctuations had a material unfavorable impact on our reported profit margins and operating income from operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. As a result of foreign currency fluctuations, it could be more difficult to detect underlying trends in our business and results of operations. In addition, to the extent that fluctuations in currency exchange rates cause our results of operations to differ from our expectations or the expectations of our investors, the trading price of our stock or the price of our outstanding 10.5% senior notes due April 15, 2018 (the “notes” or “senior notes”) could be adversely affected. From time to time, we may engage in exchange rate hedging activities in an effort to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations. Our Korean subsidiary enters into foreign currency option, forward, and zero cost collar contracts in order to mitigate a portion of the impact of U.S. dollar-Korean won exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results. These foreign currency option, forward, and zero cost collar contracts typically require us to sell specified notional amounts in U.S. dollars and provide us the option to sell specified notional amounts in U.S. dollars during successive months to our counterparty in exchange for Korean won at specified exchange rates. Obligations under these foreign currency option, forward and zero cost collar contracts must be cash collateralized if our exposure exceeds certain specified thresholds. These option, forward and zero cost collar contracts may be terminated by the counterparty in a number of circumstances, including if our long-term debt rating falls below B-/B3 or if our total cash and cash equivalents is less than $30 million at the end of a fiscal quarter. We cannot assure you that any hedging technique we implement will be effective. If our hedging activities are not effective, changes in currency exchange rates may have a more significant impact on our results of operations. See “Part I: Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Factors Affecting our Results of Operations” for further details. 22 Table of Contents The loss of our key employees would materially adversely affect our business, and we may not be able to attract or retain the technical or management employees necessary to compete in our industry. Our key executives have substantial experience and have made significant contributions to our business, and our continued success is dependent upon the retention of our key management executives, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, Sang Park. The loss of such key personnel would have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain skilled technical and managerial personnel. We do not know whether we will be able to retain all of these employees as we continue to pursue our business strategy. The loss of the services of key employees, especially our key design and technical personnel, or our inability to retain, attract and motivate qualified design and technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. This could hinder our research and product development programs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. If we encounter future labor problems, we may fail to deliver our products and services in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. As of December 31, 2012, 2,378 employees, or approximately 66% of our employees, were represented by the MagnaChip Semiconductor Labor Union, which is a member of the Federation of Korean Metal Workers Trade Unions. We can offer no assurance that issues with the labor union and other employees will be resolved favorably for us in the future, that we will not experience work stoppages or other labor problems in future years or that we will not incur significant expenses related to such issues. We may incur costs to engage in future business combinations or strategic investments, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of those transactions. As part of our business strategy, we may seek to enter into business combinations, investments, joint ventures and other strategic alliances with other companies in order to maintain and grow revenue and market presence as well as to provide us with access to technology, products and services. Any such transaction would be accompanied by risks that may harm our business, such as difficulties in assimilating the operations, personnel and products of an acquired business or in realizing the projected benefits, disruption of our ongoing business, potential increases in our indebtedness and contingent liabilities and charges if the acquired company or assets are later determined to be worth less than the amount paid for them in an earlier original acquisition. In addition, our indebtedness may restrict us from making acquisitions that we may otherwise wish to pursue. The failure to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields could adversely affect our business. The manufacture of semiconductors involves highly complex processes that require precision, a highly regulated and sterile environment and specialized equipment. Defects or other difficulties in the manufacturing process can prevent us from achieving acceptable yields in the manufacture of our products or those of our Semiconductor Manufacturing Services customers, which could lead to higher costs, a loss of customers or delay in market acceptance of our products. Slight impurities or defects in the photomasks used to print circuits on a wafer or other factors can cause significant difficulties, particularly in connection with the production of a new product, the adoption of a new manufacturing process or any expansion of our manufacturing capacity and related transitions. We may also experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields as a result of, among other things, transferring production to other facilities, upgrading or expanding existing facilities or changing our process technologies. Yields below our target levels can negatively impact our gross profit and may cause us to eliminate underperforming products. We rely on a number of independent subcontractors and the failure of any of these independent subcontractors to perform as required could adversely affect our operating results. A substantial portion of our net sales are derived from semiconductor devices assembled in packages or on film. The packaging and testing of semiconductors require technical skill and specialized equipment. For the portion of packaging and testing that we outsource, we use subcontractors located in Korea, China, Philippines, 23 Table of Contents Malaysia and Thailand. We rely on these subcontractors to package and test our devices with acceptable quality and yield levels. We could be adversely affected by political disorders, labor disruptions, and natural disasters where our subcontractors are located. If our semiconductor packagers and test service providers experience problems in packaging and testing our semiconductor devices, experience prolonged quality or yield problems or decrease the capacity available to us, our operating results could be adversely affected. We depend on successful parts and materials procurement for our manufacturing processes, and a shortage or increase in the price of these materials could interrupt our operations and result in a decline of revenues and results of operations. We procure materials and electronic and mechanical components from international sources and original equipment manufacturers. We use a wide range of parts and materials in the production of our semiconductors, including silicon, processing chemicals, processing gases, precious metals and electronic and mechanical components, some of which, such as silicon wafers, are specialized raw materials that are generally only available from a limited number of suppliers. We do not have long-term agreements providing for all of these materials, thus, if demand increases or supply decreases for any reason, the costs of our raw materials could significantly increase. For example, worldwide supplies of silicon wafers, an important raw material for the semiconductors we manufacture, were constrained in recent years due to an increased demand for silicon. Silicon is also a key raw material for solar cells, the demand for which has increased in recent years. Although supplies of silicon have recently improved due to the entrance of additional suppliers and capacity expansion by existing suppliers, we cannot assure you that such supply increases will match demand increases. If we cannot obtain adequate materials in a timely manner or on favorable terms for the manufacture of our products, revenues and results of operations will decline. We face warranty claims, product return, litigation and liability risks and the risk of negative publicity if our products fail. Our semiconductors are incorporated into a number of end products, and our business is exposed to product return, warranty and product liability risk and the risk of negative publicity if our products fail. Although we maintain insurance for product liability claims, the amount and scope of our insurance may not be adequate to cover a product liability claim that is asserted against us. In addition, product liability insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and, in the future, may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, we are exposed to the product liability risk and the risk of negative publicity affecting our customers. Our sales may decline if any of our customers are sued on a product liability claim. We also may suffer a decline in sales from the negative publicity associated with such a lawsuit or with adverse public perceptions in general regarding our customers’ products. Further, if our products are delivered with impurities or defects, we could incur additional development, repair or replacement costs, and our credibility and the market’s acceptance of our products could be harmed. We could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences as a result of changes in, or differences in the interpretation of, applicable tax laws. Our company organizational structure was created in part based on certain interpretations and conclusions regarding various tax laws, including withholding tax and other tax laws of applicable jurisdictions. Our Korean subsidiary, MagnaChip Semiconductor, Ltd., or MagnaChip Korea, was granted a limited tax holiday under Korean law in October 2004. This grant provided for certain tax exemptions for corporate taxes and withholding taxes until December 31, 2008, and for acquisition taxes, property and land use taxes and certain other taxes until December 31, 2013. Our interpretations and conclusions regarding tax laws, however, are not binding on any taxing authority and, if these interpretations and conclusions are incorrect, if our business were to be operated in a way that rendered us ineligible for tax exemptions or caused us to become subject to incremental tax, or if the 24 Table of Contents authorities were to change, modify, or have a different interpretation of the relevant tax laws, we could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences and the anticipated benefits of our organizational structure could be materially impaired. Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and know-how, as well as our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We seek to protect our proprietary technologies and know-how through the use of patents, trade secrets, confidentiality agreements and other security measures. The process of seeking patent protection takes a long time and is expensive. There can be no assurance that patents will issue from pending or future applications or that, if patents issue, they will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights granted under the patents will provide us with meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. Some of our technologies are not covered by any patent or patent application. The confidentiality agreements on which we rely to protect these technologies may be breached and may not be adequate to protect our proprietary technologies. We cannot assure you that other countries in which we market our services will protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States. In particular, the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in China, where we derive a significant portion of our net sales, and certain other countries where we derive net sales, are uncertain and still evolving and historically have not protected and may not protect in the future, intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws and enforcement procedures in the United States. Our ability to compete successfully depends on our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We have no means of knowing what patent applications have been filed in the United States until they are published. In addition, the semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We may need to file lawsuits to enforce our patents or intellectual property rights, and we may need to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others. Any litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert our resources. Despite our efforts in bringing or defending lawsuits, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. In the event of an adverse outcome in any such litigation, we may be required to: • pay substantial damages or indemnify customers or licensees for damages they may suffer if the products they purchase from us or the technology they license from us violate the intellectual property rights of others; • stop our manufacture, use, sale or importation of infringing products; expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies; • discontinue processes; or • obtain licenses to the intellectual property we are found to have infringed. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in such development or acquisition or that such licenses would be available under reasonable terms, or at all. The termination of key third party licenses relating to the use of intellectual property in our products and our design processes, such as our agreements with Silicon Works Co., Ltd. and ARM Limited, would materially and adversely affect our business. Our competitors may develop, patent or gain access to know-how and technology similar to our own. In addition, many of our patents are subject to cross licenses, several of which are with our competitors. Our expenses could increase if SK Hynix were unwilling or unable to provide certain services related to our shared facilities with SK Hynix, and if SK Hynix were to become insolvent, we could lose certain of our leases. We are party to a land lease and easement agreement with SK Hynix pursuant to which we lease the land for our facilities in Cheongju, Korea. If this agreement were terminated for any reason, including the insolvency of SK Hynix, we would have to renegotiate new lease terms with SK Hynix or the new owner of the land. We 25 Table of Contents cannot assure you that we could negotiate new lease terms on favorable terms or at all. Because we share certain facilities with SK Hynix, several services that are essential to our business are provided to us by or through SK Hynix under our general service supply agreement with SK Hynix. These services include electricity, bulk gases and de-ionized water, campus facilities and housing, wastewater and sewage management, environmental safety and certain utilities and infrastructure support services. If any of our agreements with SK Hynix were terminated or if SK Hynix were unwilling or unable to fulfill its obligations to us under the terms of these agreements, we would have to procure these services on our own and as a result may experience an increase in our expenses. We are subject to many environmental laws and regulations that could affect our operations or result in significant expenses. We are subject to requirements of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate, governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, the generation, use, handling, storage and disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous substances (including asbestos) and wastes, soil and groundwater contamination and employee health and safety. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. There can be no assurance that we have been, or will be, in compliance with all such laws and regulations or that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with these laws and regulations in the future. The adoption of new environmental, health and safety laws, the failure to comply with new or existing laws, or issues relating to hazardous substances could subject us to material liability (including substantial fines or penalties), impose the need for additional capital equipment or other process requirements upon us, curtail our operations or restrict our ability to expand operations. Our Korean subsidiary has been designated as a regulated business under Korean environmental law, and such designation could have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. In April 2010, the Korean government’s Enforcement Decree to the Framework Act on Low Carbon Green Growth became effective. Certain designated businesses, including our Korean subsidiary, were required to submit plans to reduce greenhouse emissions and energy consumption. Our Korean subsidiary first set emissions and consumption targets and negotiated an implementation plan in 2011 with Korean governmental authorities. Each year going forward, our Korean subsidiary is required to agree upon emissions and consumption targets with Korean governmental authorities and submit an independently-verified report of prior year compliance. If the targets agreed upon each year with Korean governmental authorities requires us to reduce our emissions or energy consumption, we could be subject to additional and potentially costly compliance or remediation expenses, including potentially the installation of equipment and changes in the type of materials we use in manufacturing, that could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. We may need additional capital in the future, and such capital may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may require more capital in the future from equity or debt financings to fund operating expenses, such as research and development costs, finance investments in equipment and infrastructure, acquire complementary businesses and technologies, and respond to competitive pressures and potential strategic opportunities. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new shares we issue could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. In addition, additional capital may not be available when needed or, if available, may not be available on favorable terms. In addition, our indebtedness limits our ability to incur additional indebtedness under certain circumstances. If we are unable to obtain capital on favorable terms, or if we are unable to obtain capital at all, we may have to reduce our operations or forego opportunities, and this may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Our business depends on international customers, suppliers and operations in Asia, and as a result we are subject to regulatory, operational, financial and political risks, which could adversely affect our financial results. We rely on, and expect to continue to rely on, suppliers, subcontractors and operations located primarily in Asia. As a result, we face risks inherent in international operations, such as unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other market barriers, political, social and economic instability, adverse tax consequences, war, civil disturbances and acts of terrorism, difficulties in accounts receivable collection, extended payment terms and differing labor standards, enforcement of contractual obligations and protection of intellectual property. These risks may lead to increased costs or decreased revenue growth, or both. Although we do not derive any revenue from, nor sell any products in, North Korea, any future increase in tensions between South Korea and North Korea that may occur, such as an outbreak of military hostilities, would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. You may not be able to bring an action or enforce any judgment obtained in United States courts, or bring an action in any other jurisdiction, against us or our subsidiaries or our directors, officers or independent auditors that are organized or residing in jurisdictions other than the United States. Most of our subsidiaries are organized or incorporated outside of the United States and some of our directors and executive officers as well as our independent auditors are organized or reside outside of the United States. Most of our and our subsidiaries’ assets are located outside of the United States and in particular, in Korea. Accordingly, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or our subsidiaries may not be collectible in the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons or to enforce against them or us court judgments obtained in the United States that are predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or of the securities laws of any state of the United States. In particular, there is doubt as to the enforceability in Korea or any other jurisdictions outside the United States, either in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of civil liabilities predicated on the federal securities laws of the United States or the securities laws of any state of the United States. Our level of indebtedness is substantial, and we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. A decline in the ratings of our existing or future indebtedness may make the terms of any new indebtedness we choose to incur more costly. As of December 31, 2012, our total indebtedness was $201.7 million. Our substantial debt could have important consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will generate a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. 27 Table of Contents The credit ratings assigned to our debt reflect each rating agency’s opinion of our ability to make payments on the debt obligations when such payments are due. The current rating of our senior notes is B2 by Moody’s and B+ by Standard and Poors, both of which are below investment grade. A rating may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. We may experience downgrades in our debt ratings in the future. Any lowering of our debt ratings would adversely impact our ability to raise additional debt financing and increase the cost of any such financing that is obtained. In the event any ratings downgrades are significant, we may choose not to incur new debt or refinance existing debt if we are unable to incur or refinance such debt at favorable interest rates or on favorable terms. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations or if we are unable to refinance existing indebtedness on favorable terms, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. The indentures governing our notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or be able to obtain the proceeds which we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. We are a holding company and will depend on the business of our subsidiaries to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding senior notes and other obligations. Each of MagnaChip Semiconductor Corporation, MagnaChip Semiconductor S.A. and MagnaChip Semiconductor B.V. is a holding company with no independent operations of its own. Our subsidiaries, including our principal manufacturing subsidiary, MagnaChip Korea, own all of our operating businesses. Our subsidiaries will conduct substantially all of the operations necessary to fund payments on our outstanding senior notes, other debt and any other obligations. Our ability to make payments on the senior notes and our other obligations will depend on our subsidiaries’ cash flow and their payment of funds to us. Our subsidiaries’ ability to make payments to us will depend on: • their earnings; • covenants contained in our debt agreements (including the indenture governing the senior notes) and the debt agreements of our subsidiaries; • covenants contained in other agreements to which we or our subsidiaries are or may become subject; • business and tax considerations; and • applicable law, including any restrictions under Korean law that may be imposed on MagnaChip Korea that would restrict its ability to make payments on intercompany loans from MagnaChip Semiconductor B.V. We cannot assure you that the operating results of our subsidiaries at any given time will be sufficient to make distributions or other payments to us or that any distributions or payments will be adequate to pay principal and interest, and any other payments, on our outstanding senior notes, other debt or any other obligations when due, and the failure to make such payments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Restrictions on MagnaChip Korea’s ability to make payments on its intercompany loans from MagnaChip Semiconductor B.V., or on its ability to pay dividends in excess of statutory limitations, could hinder our ability to make payments on our 10.500% senior notes due 2018. We anticipate that payments under our 10.500% senior notes due 2018 will be funded in part by MagnaChip Korea’s repayment of its existing loans from MagnaChip Semiconductor B.V., with MagnaChip Semiconductor B.V. using such repayments in turn to repay the loans owed to MagnaChip Semiconductor S.A. Under the Korean Foreign Exchange Transaction Act, the minister of the Ministry of Strategy and Finance is authorized to 28 Table of Contents temporarily suspend payments in foreign currencies in the event of natural calamities, wars, conflicts of arms, grave and sudden changes in domestic or foreign economic conditions, or other similar situations. In addition, under the Korean Commercial Code, a Korean company is permitted to make a dividend payment in accordance with the provisions in its articles of incorporation out of retained earnings (as determined in accordance with the Korean Commercial Code and the generally accepted accounting principles in Korea), but no more than twice a year. If MagnaChip Korea is prevented from making payments under its intercompany loans due to restrictions on payments of foreign currency or if it has an insufficient amount of retained earnings under the Korean Commercial Code to make dividend payments to MagnaChip Semiconductor B.V., we may not have sufficient funds to make payments on the senior notes. The indenture governing the senior notes contains, and our future debt agreements will likely contain, covenants that significantly restrict our operations. The indenture governing our outstanding senior notes contains, and our future debt agreements will likely contain, numerous covenants imposing financial and operating restrictions on our business. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business, may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise and may adversely affect the conduct of our current business, including by restricting our ability to finance future operations and capital needs and by limiting our ability to engage in other business activities. These covenants will place restrictions on our ability and the ability of our operating subsidiaries to, among other things: • pay dividends, redeem shares or make other distributions with respect to equity interests, make payments with respect to subordinated indebtedness or other restricted payments; • incur debt or issue preferred stock; • create liens; • make certain investments; • consolidate, merge or dispose of all or substantially all of our assets, taken as a whole; • sell or otherwise transfer or dispose of assets, including equity interests of our subsidiaries; • enter into sale-leaseback transactions; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; and • designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. In addition, our future debt agreements will likely contain financial ratios and other financial conditions tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests could be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those ratios and tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under such debt agreements. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under such debt agreements, our lenders under such agreements could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under such debt agreements to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. The global downturn and related financial crisis negatively affected our business. Poor economic conditions may negatively affect our future business, results of operations and financial condition. Since 2008, the global downturn and related financial crisis led to slower economic activity, increased unemployment, concerns about inflation and energy costs, decreased business and consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and lower levels of liquidity in many financial markets. Consumers and businesses deferred purchases in response to tighter credit and negative financial news, which has in turn negatively affected product demand and other related matters. The global downturn led to reduced customer spending in the semiconductor market and in our target markets, made it difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and caused U.S. and foreign businesses to slow spending on our products. Although recently there have been indications of improved 29 Table of Contents economic conditions generally and in the semiconductor industry specifically, we cannot assure you of the extent to which such conditions will continue to improve or whether the improvement will be sustainable. If the global economic recovery is not sustained or the global economy experiences another recession, such adverse economic conditions could lead to the insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays, limit the ability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products, lead to customer insolvencies, and also result in counterparty failures that may negatively impact our treasury operations. As a result, our business, financial condition and result of operations could be materially adversely affected in future periods as a result of economic downturns. We have a history of losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. From the time we began operations as a separate entity in 2004 until we emerged from reorganization proceedings in 2009, we generated significant net losses and did not generate a profit for a full fiscal year. We may increase spending and we currently expect to incur higher expenses in each of the next several quarters to support increased research and development and sales and marketing efforts. These expenditures may not result in increased revenue or an increase in the number of customers immediately or at all. Because many of our expenses are fixed in the short term, or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall of sales. If we cannot maintain profitability, the value of the enterprise may decline. We emerged from Chapter 11 reorganization proceedings in 2009; because our consolidated financial statements after October 2009 reflect fresh-start accounting adjustments, our current consolidated financial statements will not be comparable in many respects to our financial information from periods prior to that time. On June 12, 2009, we filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in order to obtain relief from our debt, which was $845 million as of December 31, 2008. Our plan of reorganization became effective on November 9, 2009. In connection with our emergence from the reorganization proceedings, we implemented fresh-start accounting in accordance with ASC 852 effective from October 25, 2009, which had a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. Thus, our consolidated financial statements after October 2009 will not be comparable in many respects to our consolidated financial statements for periods prior to our adoption of fresh-start accounting and prior to accounting for the effects of the reorganization proceedings. Investor confidence may be adversely impacted if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures or are unable to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and as a result, the value of our securities could decline. We are subject to rules adopted by the Securities Exchange Commission, or SEC, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires us to include in our Annual Report on Form 10-K our management’s report on, and assessment of the effectiveness of, our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, there is a risk that we will have material weaknesses in the future. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. Any of these possible outcomes could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements and could result in investigations or sanctions by the SEC, the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, or other regulatory authorities or in stockholder litigation. Any of these factors ultimately could harm our business and could negatively impact the market price of our securities. Ineffective control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. 30 Table of Contents We are also required to periodically assess and report on the adequacy of our disclosure controls and procedures. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. However, our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. See “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.” We may need to incur impairment and other restructuring charges, which could materially affect our results of operations and financial conditions. During industry downturns and for other reasons, we may need to record impairment or restructuring charges. From November 9, 2009, the date we emerged from Chapter 11 reorganization proceedings, through December 31, 2012, we recognized aggregate restructuring and impairment charges of $6.1 million, which consisted of $4.5 million of impairment charges and $1.6 million of restructuring charges. In the future, we may need to record additional impairment charges or to further restructure our business or incur additional restructuring charges, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We are subject to litigation risks, which may be costly to defend and the outcome of which is uncertain. All industries, including the semiconductor industry, are subject to legal claims, with and without merit, that may be particularly costly and which may divert the attention of our management and our resources in general. We are involved in a variety of legal matters, most of which we consider routine matters that arise in the normal course of business. These routine matters typically fall into broad categories such as those involving customers, employment and labor and intellectual property. Even if the final outcome of these legal claims does not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, defense and settlement costs can be substantial. Due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any particular legal claim or proceeding could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The price of our common stock may be volatile and you may lose all or a part of your investment. The trading price of our common stock might be subject to wide fluctuations. Factors, some of which are beyond our control, that could affect the trading price of our common stock may include: • actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations from quarter to quarter or year to year; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant agreements, technological innovations or strategic alliances; • changes in recommendations or estimates by any securities analysts who follow our securities; • addition or loss of significant customers; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • changes in economic performance or market valuations of competing companies in our industry; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market; 31 Table of Contents • market conditions in our industry, end markets and the economy as a whole; • subsequent sales of stock and other financings; and • litigation, legislation, regulation or technological developments that adversely affect our business. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company’s securities, securities class action litigation often has been instituted against the public company. Regardless of its outcome, this type of litigation could result in substantial costs to us and a likely diversion of our management’s attention. You may not receive a positive return on your investment when you sell your shares, and you could lose some or the entire amount of your investment. Significant ownership of our common stock by certain stockholders could adversely affect our other stockholders. Based upon the number of shares of common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2012, our executive officers, directors and Avenue collectively beneficially owned approximately 38.8% of our common stock, excluding shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants, and 41.3% of our common stock, including shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants that are exercisable within sixty days of December 31, 2012. In addition, affiliates of Avenue currently have two employees serving as members of our seven-member board of directors. Therefore, Avenue will continue to have significant influence over our affairs for the foreseeable future, including influence over the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets. On February 8, 2013, Avenue completed the sale of 5,750,000 shares of common stock in an underwritten public offering, after which Avenue beneficially owned approximately 22.2% of our outstanding common stock. Our concentration of ownership may limit the ability of other stockholders to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our public stockholders do not view as beneficial. For example, our concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their shares of our common stock. In addition, prior to May 7, 2012, we were a “controlled company” for purposes of the NYSE listing requirements, and have been exempt from certain NYSE corporate governance requirements that our board of directors meet the standards of independence established by those corporate governance requirements and exempt from the requirements that we have separate Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees made up entirely of directors who meet such independence standards. We are no longer a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE rules and will no longer be entitled to the benefits described above after May 2013. Under our certificate of incorporation, our non-employee directors and non-employee holders of five percent or more of our outstanding common stock do not have a duty to refrain from engaging in a corporate opportunity in the same or similar activities or lines of business as those engaged in by us, our subsidiaries and other related parties. Also, we have renounced any interest or expectancy in such business opportunities even if the opportunity is one that we might reasonably have pursued or had the ability or desire to pursue if granted an opportunity to do so. Future sales of significant amounts of our common stock could negatively affect our stock price, even if our business is doing well. As of December 31, 2012, Avenue beneficially owned 13,789,539 shares, or approximately 38.1%, of our outstanding common stock, including 555,961 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding warrants that are exercisable within sixty days of December 31, 2012. On February 8, 2013, Avenue completed the sale of 5,750,000 shares of common stock in an underwritten public offering, and as of such date, after giving effect to the offering, beneficially owned approximately 22.2% of our outstanding common stock. All of our 32 Table of Contents currently outstanding shares that were issued pursuant to Section 1145 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, including Avenue’s shares, are eligible for sale from time to time under Rule 144 or Section 4(1) of the Securities Act subject only to the limitations on affiliate sales. Additionally, all remaining shares beneficially owned by Avenue are registered for resale under an effective shelf registration statement and therefore are eligible for sale at any time or from time to time by Avenue. If any of our current stockholders, including Avenue, sells or is perceived by the market as intending to sell substantial amounts of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware Law may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us and could depress the price of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Among other things, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • authorize our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine; • divide our board of directors into three classes so that only approximately one-third of the total number of directors is elected each year; • permit directors to be removed only for cause by a majority vote; • prohibit action by written consent of our stockholders; • prohibit any person other than our board of directors, the chairman of our board of directors, our Chief Executive Officer or holders of at least 25% of the voting power of all then outstanding shares of capital stock of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors to call a special meeting of our stockholders; and • specify advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations. In addition we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or DGCL, regulating corporate takeovers and which has an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our board of directors, including discouraging takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for shares of our common stock. In general, those provisions prohibit a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless: • the transaction is approved by the board of directors before the date the interested stockholder attained that status; • upon consummation of the transaction which resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of the voting stock of the corporation outstanding at the time the transaction commenced; or • on or after such date, the business combination is approved by the board of directors and authorized at a meeting of stockholders, and not by written consent, by at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the interested stockholder. In general, DGCL Section 203 defines a business combination to include the following: • any merger or consolidation involving the corporation and the interested stockholder; • any sale, transfer, pledge or other disposition of 10% or more of the assets of the corporation involving the interested stockholder; • subject to certain exceptions, any transaction that results in the issuance or transfer by the corporation of any stock of the corporation to the interested stockholder; 33 Table of Contents • any transaction involving the corporation that has the effect of increasing the proportionate share of the stock of any class or series of the corporation beneficially owned by the interested stockholder; or • the receipt by the interested stockholder of the benefit of any loans, advances, guarantees, pledges or other financial benefits provided by or through the corporation. In general, DGCL Section 203 defines an interested stockholder as any entity or person beneficially owning 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of the corporation and any entity or person affiliated with or controlling or controlled by any such entity or person. A Delaware corporation may opt out of this provision by express provision in its original certificate of incorporation or by amendment to its certificate of incorporation or bylaws approved by its stockholders. However, we have not opted out of, and do not currently intend to opt out of, this provision. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future, and therefore, investors should rely on sales of their common stock as the only way to realize any future gains on their investments. We do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The payment of cash dividends on common stock is restricted under the terms of the indenture for our senior notes. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investments. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 