Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, in evaluating us and our business before making an investment decision regarding our securities. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The risks listed below are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. 9 Risks associated with our business If the benefits of our acquisition of KPB do not meet the expectations of the marketplace, or financial or industry analysts, the market price of our common stock may decline. We acquired KPB on January 2, 2007. The market price of our common stock may decline if KPB does not perform as expected, or we do not otherwise achieve the perceived benefits of the acquisition as rapidly as, or to the extent anticipated by, the marketplace, or financial or industry analysts. Accordingly, investors may experience a loss as a result of a decreasing stock price and we may not be able to raise future capital, if necessary, in the equity markets. We are dependent upon key management executives whose loss may adversely impact our business. Our success will depend significantly on the efforts and abilities of Roger Stone, Chief Executive Officer, and Matthew Kaplan, President. The loss of services of one or both of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we depend on the expertise, experience and continued services of KPB’s management. The loss of such management, or an inability to attract or retain other key individuals, could materially adversely affect us. We seek to compensate management, as well as other employees, through competitive salaries, bonuses and other incentive plans, but there can be no assurance that these programs will allow us to retain key management executives or hire new key employees. KPB’s operations may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet KapStone Kraft’s debt service obligations. KapStone Kraft’s ability to make payments on its indebtedness will depend on its ability to generate cash from KPB’s operations. KPB’s business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable it to repay KapStone Kraft’s indebtedness and to fund other liquidity needs, including capital expenditure requirements. The indebtedness incurred by KapStone Kraft under the credit facility bears interest at variable rates, and therefore if interest rates increase, KapStone Kraft’s debt service requirements will increase. In such case, KapStone Kraft may need to refinance or restructure all or a portion of its indebtedness on or before maturity. KapStone Kraft may not be able to refinance any of its indebtedness, including the new credit facility, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. KapStone Kraft’s expected debt service obligation is initially estimated to be approximately $4,000,000 in interest payments per annum, which amount will be reduced each year in accordance with scheduled debt amortization payments, if made. In addition, debt service requirements will also include scheduled quarterly principal payments starting at $1,875,000 during the first year and rising to $2,250,000 in the fifth and final year of the facility. If KapStone Kraft cannot service or refinance its indebtedness, it may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on KPB’s operations and financial condition. A default under KapStone Kraft’s indebtedness may have a material adverse effect on our business and our financial condition. In the event of a default under KapStone Kraft’s credit facility, the lenders generally would be able to declare all of such indebtedness, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable. In addition, borrowings under the credit facility are secured by a first priority lien on all of the assets of KPB and, in the event of a default under that facility the lenders generally would be entitled to seize the collateral. Moreover, upon the occurrence of an event of default under the credit facility, the commitment of the lenders to make any further loans would be terminated. Accordingly, a default under any debt instrument, unless cured or waived, would likely have a material adverse effect on KPB’s business and our results of operations and financial condition. 10 Servicing debt could limit funds available for other purposes. We will use KapStone Kraft’s cash from KPB operations to pay the principal and interest on our debt. These payments limit funds available for other purposes, including expansion of our operations through acquisitions and funding of capital expenditures. KapStone Kraft’s credit facility contains restrictive covenants that limit its liquidity and corporate activities. KapStone Kraft’s credit facility imposes operating and financial restrictions that limit KapStone Kraft’s ability to: · incur additional indebtedness; · create additional liens on its assets; · make investments; · engage in mergers or acquisitions; · pay dividends; and · sell any of KPB’s assets outside the ordinary course of business. In addition, the credit facility also imposes certain limited restrictions on KapStone. Therefore, we will need to seek permission from the lender in order to engage in certain corporate actions. The lender’s interests may be different from ours, and no assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain the lender’s permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest. Future acquisitions of businesses by us would subject us to additional business, operating and industry risks, the impact of which cannot presently be evaluated, and could adversely impact our capital structure. We intend to pursue other acquisition opportunities in an effort to diversify our investments and/or grow the KPB business. Any business acquired by us may cause it to be affected by numerous risks inherent in the acquired business’s operations. If we acquire a business in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry or target business, we cannot assure you that we will be able to properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. In addition, the financing of any acquisition completed by us could adversely impact our capital structure as any such financing would likely include the issuance of additional equity securities and/or the borrowing of additional funds. The issuance of additional equity securities may significantly reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and/or adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Increasing our indebtedness could increase the risk of a default that would entitle the holder to declare all of such indebtedness due and payable and/or to seize any collateral securing the indebtedness. In addition, default under one debt instrument could in turn permit lenders under other debt instruments to declare borrowings outstanding under those other instruments to be due and payable pursuant to cross default clauses. Accordingly, the financing of future acquisitions could adversely impact our capital structure and your equity interest in us. Except as required by law or the rules of any securities exchange on which our securities might be listed at the time it seeks to consummate a subsequent acquisition, you will not be asked to vote on any such proposed acquisition and no redemption rights in connection with any such acquisition will exist. If we fail to maintain effective systems for disclosure controls and internal controls over financing reporting as a result of the acquisition of the KPB assets, we may be unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 in a timely manner. Because we acquired assets of a division of IP, and not a stand-alone entity with its own management information and reporting systems in place, we currently depend on IP’s systems to monitor the operation of the KPB business. As a division of IP, KPB’s internal controls over financial reporting have been maintained as part of IP’s overall enterprise wide reporting system. In assuming assets that are part of an 11 ongoing business operation, we will face the risk that deficiencies and weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting may be identified during the transition phase to a stand-alone business. We will be responsible for developing and establishing our own systems, processes and procedures to adequately and effectively monitor disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting. We believe that the cost involved to develop these systems will range from $3,500,000 to $4,800,000 and will take approximately 10 months to complete. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test the effectiveness of its internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with an established internal control framework and to report on its conclusion as to the effectiveness of its internal controls. It also requires an independent registered public accounting firm to test our internal controls over financial reporting and report on the effectiveness of such controls for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2006 and subsequent years. An independent registered public accounting firm will also be required to test, evaluate and report on the completeness of our assessment. It may cost us more than we expect to comply with these controls and procedure related requirements. If we discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement, we cannot be certain that any remedial measures taken will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate internal controls over financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Operation of KPB will be dependent upon certain operating agreements with IP. We are dependent upon IP for certain operational support services as well as certain supply and purchase arrangements. In this regard, we rely upon a transition services agreement for support, rely upon IP (or buyers of certain IP businesses) to supply pulpwood, residual woodchips, sawdust, valve and chucks and containers, and rely upon IP (or buyers of certain IP businesses) to purchase unbleached rollwrap base paper, crude tall oil, black liquor soap, crude sulfate turpentine, dunnage bags and linerboard from us. IP is the exclusive supplier of corrugated containers to us. We currently believe that containers and the other materials supplied by IP as described above are readily available from other sources on the open market. However, in the event that IP, or any other supplier of key materials, for any reason fails to meet our supply requirements, the loss of supply could prevent us from meeting our scheduled product deliveries and/or lead to increases in the prices of such supplies, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We have agreed to supply to IP 100% of IP’s requirements of dunnage bags. Also, we agreed to supply to IP, the buyer of IP’s beverage packaging business and the buyer of IP’s coated paper business, 100% of each of their requirements of unbleached rollwrap paper. Any reduction in market prices or in the volume of products to be purchased by such parties, whether due to decreased demand, adverse market conditions or otherwise, could have a potential adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, if we are unable to supply to such parties their requirements of the foregoing products, such parties would have the right to obtain their requirements from other suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we rely upon a patent license agreement with IP, whereby we can continue to use certain patented technology used in constructing dunnage bags on a royalty-free basis for the life of the patent. The failure of IP to protect the patent could have a material adverse effect on KPB’s business and our operating results and financial condition. If we fail to extend or renegotiate the collective bargaining agreements with the United Steelworkers Union as they expire from time to time, or if our unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, our business and operating results could be materially harmed. All of KPB’s hourly paid employees (approximately 400 at Roanoke Rapids and 140 at Ride Rite® Converting) are represented by the United Steelworkers Union. KPB is a party to collective bargaining 12 contracts, which represent approximately 81% and 78% of its employees at Roanoke Rapids and Ride Rite® Converting, respectively. No assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully extend or renegotiate the collective bargaining agreements as they expire from time to time. Currently, there are collective bargaining agreements in effect with respect to Roanoke Rapids through August 31, 2010 (recently ratified) and with respect to Ride Rite® Converting through June 30, 2008. If we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements, if disputes with the union arise, or if the unionized workers engage in a strike or other work stoppage, we could incur higher ongoing labor costs or experience a significant disruption of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The impact of future negotiations, including changes in wages and benefit levels that are collectively bargained for as part of the overall contracts with the unions, could have a material impact on our financial results. A few customers account for a significant portion of our revenues. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the top three customers (Altivity Packaging Corporation, Exopack, LLC and Hood Packaging Corporation) accounted for 46.6% and the top ten customers accounted for 78.8% of revenues generated by Roanoke Rapids. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the top three customers (Altivity Packaging, Exopack, LLC and Hood Packaging Corporation) accounted for 53.5% and the top ten customers accounted for 88.0% of revenues generated by Roanoke Rapids. During 2006 and 2005, two customers accounted for 32.6% and 30.0%, respectively, and the top ten customers accounted for 65.5% and 67.1% respectively, of revenues generated by Ride Rite® Converting. The contracts with KPB’s clients typically have a two-year term and pricing is market-indexed, based on volume and do not contain any penalty provisions. The loss of or reduced sales to these key customers could result in decreased revenues and adversely impact KPB’s cash flows. The Roanoke Rapids facility consists of a single paper mill from which all of its kraft paper and linerboard products are manufactured. If the equipment at the mill malfunctions, KPB may be unable to manufacture its products. KPB relies on a single paper mill with two papermaking machines to produce its kraft paper and linerboard products. The mill operates 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and with this high rate of utilization, the ability to recover from unplanned outages is limited. Further, since the Roanoke Rapids facility relies solely on two papermaking machines, any breakdown in one or both machines could result in an interruption in production at the mill and we may be unable to fulfill our product delivery obligations to our customers. Our failure to produce and deliver our products could lead to cancellation of customer contracts, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and relationship with customers. Although IP has agreed to indemnify us with respect to environmental liabilities that are being assumed, we may incur significant remediation and other costs if such losses exceed the cap on indemnification or occur after the expiration of the indemnification period. The Roanoke Rapids facility operated as an industrial facility for many years prior to the enactment of environmental legislation that would have required certain pollution prevention concepts to be addressed at the facility. Due to its long history of industrial operations, the possibility of onsite and offsite environmental impact to the soil and groundwater may present a heightened risk of liability for contamination. The overall indemnification by IP for certain losses includes assumed environmental liabilities, subject to a $1,000,000 threshold and a cap of $15,000,000. IP’s indemnification for assumed environmental liabilities will survive for three years. However, with respect to environmental claims, the cap described above will be reduced by $1,800,000 every six months during the three year survival period. Because we are unable to presently make a determination as to whether the environmental impact, if any, would be widespread or significant, the negotiated cap and survival period may not be sufficient to cover future losses. Further, if we are required to make significant expenditures for remediation and other costs that exceed the cap, the cost of such efforts may have a significant negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 13 If the actual employee pension and post-retirement liabilities we have assumed are greater than currently estimated, it could have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have agreed to assume certain collective bargaining agreements and to provide benefits through the expiration of those agreements, including the provision of pension and post-retirement medical benefits that are substantially similar to the collectively bargained benefits previously negotiated by IP. To the extent entitlement to pension and post-retirement medical benefits under these agreements had vested at the time of the KPB acquisition, the liabilities associated with the provision of those benefits were excluded liabilities that were retained by IP under the Purchase Agreement, and we did not assume those liabilities. However, to the extent post-retirement liabilities for collectively bargained employees at the time of the closing of the acquisition were greater than the liabilities for vested benefits retained by IP, we intend to provide credits to the applicable employees under the benefits plans we establish such that these employees receive benefits after the closing that are substantially similar to those previously negotiated by IP under the collective bargaining agreements, or until new collective bargaining agreements are negotiated and ratified. Consequently, these liabilities will be our obligation. The amount of these assumed liabilities, for financial accounting purposes, have been determined to be approximately $3,015,000. If the actual liabilities are greater than the estimate, our pension obligations and related expense will be increased, which could have a material adverse effect upon our operating results and financial condition. The impact of severe weather on roundwood availability could result in unfavorable wood pricing. Historically, KPB controlled company-owned stumpage consisting of all-weather loggable tracts. This provided a buffer from large market pricing swings during weather events which resulted in reduced roundwood availability. While KPB believes its current fiber procurement strategy contains provisions to minimize the impact of such events, in the absence of company-owned stumpage, KPB could be more susceptible to market pricing spikes, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our officers and directors control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. At December 31, 2006 our officers and directors owned approximately 25% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock and may have considerable influence over the outcome of all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including future acquisitions and the election of directors. In addition, our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of two years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. At the annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our officers and directors, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Some of our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Some of our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities, including “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those conducted by us. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities to which they have fiduciary obligations. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Risks associated with the paper, packaging, forest products and related industries. 14 The paper, packaging, forest products and related industries are highly cyclical. Fluctuations in the prices of and the demand for a target company’s products could result in smaller profit margins and lower sales volumes. Historically, economic and market shifts, fluctuations in capacity and changes in foreign currency exchange rates have created cyclical changes in prices, sales volume and margins for products in the paper, packaging, forest products and related industries. The length and magnitude of industry cycles have varied over time and by product, but generally reflect changes in macroeconomic conditions and levels of industry capacity. Most paper products and many wood products used in the packaging industry are commodities that are widely available from many producers. Because commodity products have few distinguishing qualities from producer to producer, competition for these products is based primarily on price, which is determined by supply relative to demand. The overall levels of demand for these commodity products reflect fluctuations in levels of end-user demand, which depend in large part on general macroeconomic conditions in North America and regional economic conditions in our markets, as well as foreign currency exchange rates. The foregoing factors could materially and adversely impact sales and profitability of a target company with which we might seek a business combination. Difficulty obtaining timber at favorable prices, or at all, may negatively impact companies in the packaging industry. Wood fiber is the principal raw material in many parts of the packaging industry. Wood fiber is a commodity, and prices historically have been cyclical. Environmental litigation and regulatory developments have caused, and may cause in the future, significant reductions in the amount of timber available for commercial harvest in the United States. These reductions have caused the closure of plywood and lumber operations in some of the geographic areas in which a target company might operate. In addition, future domestic or foreign legislation and litigation concerning the use of timberlands, the protection of endangered species, the promotion of forest health and the response to and prevention of catastrophic wildfires could also affect timber supplies. Availability of harvested timber may further be limited by fire, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, wind storms, flooding and other natural and man made causes, thereby reducing supply and increasing prices. Industry supply of commodity paper and wood products is also subject to fluctuation, as changing industry conditions can influence producers to idle or permanently close individual machines or entire mills. In addition, to avoid substantial cash costs in connection with idling or closing a mill, some producers will choose to continue to operate at a loss, sometimes even a cash loss, which could prolong weak pricing environments due to oversupply. Oversupply in these markets can also result from producers introducing new capacity in response to favorable short-term pricing trends. Industry supply of commodity papers and wood products is also influenced by overseas production capacity, which has grown in recent years and is expected to continue to grow. Wood fiber pricing is subject to regional market influences, and the cost of wood fiber may increase in particular regions due to market shifts in those regions. In addition, the ability to obtain wood fiber from foreign countries may be impacted by legal and political conditions in that country as well as transportation difficulties. An increase in the cost of purchased energy or chemicals would lead to higher manufacturing costs, thereby reducing margins. Energy is a significant raw material in the paper, packaging, forest products and related industries. Energy prices, particularly for electricity, natural gas and fuel oil, have been volatile in recent years and currently exceed historical averages. These fluctuations have historically impacted manufacturing costs of companies in these industries, often contributing to earnings volatility. Recent significant increases in energy prices can be expected to adversely impact businesses in these industries. In addition, we could be materially adversely impacted by supply disruptions. 15 Paper, packaging and forest products companies face strong competition. The paper, packaging, forest products and related industries are highly fragmented, and we face competition from numerous competitors, domestic as well as foreign. Some of our competitors will be large, vertically integrated companies that have greater financial and other resources, greater manufacturing economies of scale, greater energy self-sufficiency and/or lower operating costs. Certain paper and wood products are vulnerable to long-term declines in demand due to competing technologies or materials. Companies in the paper, packaging, forest products and related industries are subject to possible declines in demand for their products as the use of alternative materials and technologies grows and the prices of such alternatives become more competitive. Any substantial shift in demand from wood and paper products to competing technologies or materials could result in a material decrease in sales of our products. While we would seek to adapt our product offerings to changes in market demand, we cannot assure you that any efforts will be successful or sufficient. Packaging companies are subject to significant environmental regulation and environmental compliance expenditures, as well as other potential environmental liabilities. Companies in the packaging industry are subject to a wide range of general and industry-specific environmental laws and regulations, particularly with respect to air emissions, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous waste management, site remediation, forestry operations and endangered species habitats. We may incur substantial expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could expose us to civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including orders limiting operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or other remedial actions. Risks Associated with Stone’s Warrants We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. Subject to there being a current prospectus under the Securities Act of 1933 with respect to the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants issued as a part of the units in our initial public offering, during the entire period between any notice of redemption and the actual redemption date, we may redeem the warrants at any time after the warrants become exercisable, in whole and not in part, at a price of $.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $8.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before the notice of redemption is sent. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders (i) to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price therefore at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (ii) to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants, or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. Although we currently have an effective registration statement covering the issuance of the shares underlying the warrants issued in our initial public offering at the time that the warrant holders exercise their warrants, we cannot guarantee that a registration statement will continue to be effective, in which case the warrant holders may not be able to exercise their warrants. Holders of the warrants issued in our initial public offering will be able to receive shares upon exercise of the warrants only if (i) a current registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 relating to the shares of common stock underlying the warrants is then effective and (ii) such shares are qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities laws of the states in which the various holders of warrants reside. Although we currently have a current registration statement covering the shares underlying the warrants to the extent required by federal securities laws, we cannot give assurance that we 16 will be able to maintain the effectiveness of such registration statement. In addition, some states may not permit us to register the shares issuable upon exercise of our warrants for sale. Since we have no obligation to net cash settle the warrants in the absence of an effective registration statement, the value of the warrants will be greatly reduced if a registration statement covering the shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not kept current or if the securities are not qualified, or exempt from qualification, in the states in which the holders of warrants reside. Holders of warrants who reside in jurisdictions in which the shares underlying the warrants are not qualified and in which there is no exemption will be unable to exercise their warrants and would either have to sell their warrants in the open market or allow them to expire unexercised. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. In light of the foregoing, the warrants may expire worthless and a purchaser of units may have paid the full unit purchase price solely for the share component of the units. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments [None.] 