D. Risk Factors Our business faces certain risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business. If any of the events or circumstances described as risks below or elsewhere in this report actually occurs, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Risk Related to Our Industry The cyclical nature of the international shipping industry may lead to volatile changes in charter rates and vessel values, which may reduce our revenues and net income. 2 Table of Contents We are an independent shipping company that operates in the international drybulk shipping market. Our profitability is dependent upon the charter rates we are able to charge. The supply of and demand for shipping capacity strongly influences charter rates. The demand for shipping capacity is determined primarily by the demand for the type of commodities carried, the distance that those commodities must be moved by sea, and the demand for vessels of a particular size. The demand for commodities is affected by, among other things, world and regional economic and political conditions (including developments in international trade, fluctuations in industrial and agricultural production and armed conflicts), environmental concerns, weather patterns, port congestion, and changes in seaborne and other transportation costs. The size of the existing fleet per size category (i.e., Handysize, Handymax, Panamax or Capesize) in any particular drybulk market, the number of new vessel deliveries, the scrapping of older vessels and the number of vessels out of active service (i.e., laid-up, dry-docked, awaiting repairs or otherwise not available for hire), determines the supply of shipping capacity, which is measured by the amount of suitable tonnage available to carry cargo. In addition to the prevailing and anticipated charter rates, factors that affect the supply and demand for shipping capacity include the rate of newbuilding, scrapping and laying-up, newbuilding prices, secondhand vessel values in relation to scrap prices, costs of bunkers and other operating costs, costs associated with classification society surveys, normal maintenance and insurance coverage, the efficiency and age profile of the existing fleet in the market, and government and industry regulation of maritime transportation practices, particularly environmental protection laws and regulations. These factors are outside of our control, and we cannot predict the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions. Some of these factors may have a negative impact on our revenues and net income. The market value of our vessels can fluctuate significantly. The market value of our vessels may increase or decrease depending on the following factors: • economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry in general; • supply of drybulk vessels, including secondhand vessels; • demand for drybulk vessels; • types and sizes of vessels; • other modes of transportation; • cost of newbuildings; • new regulatory requirements from governments or self-regulated organizations; and • prevailing level of charter rates. Because the market value of our vessels may fluctuate significantly, we may incur losses when we sell vessels, which may adversely affect our earnings. In addition, any determination that a vessel’s remaining useful life and earnings requires an impairment of its value on our financial statements could result in a charge against our earnings and a reduction in our shareholders’ equity. If for any reason we sell our vessels at a time when prices have fallen, the sale may be less than that vessel’s carrying amount on our financial statements, and we would incur a loss and a reduction in earnings. 3 Table of Contents Charter rates, which in the international drybulk shipping industry approached historic highs in the third quarter of 2007, may decline as a result of increased capacity and slowing worldwide economic growth, thereby reducing our future profitability. After reaching a peak in mid-2005, charter rates and vessel values decreased during the remainder of 2005 and the first half of 2006. Since July 2006, charter rates and the value of secondhand vessels have risen sharply, approaching historical record high levels in October and November 2007. We cannot give any assurance as to how long these rate levels may be maintained and, if they begin to decline, to what levels they might fall. We anticipate that the future demand for our drybulk carriers and drybulk charter rates will be dependent upon continued economic growth particularly in China and India and elsewhere in the world generally, seasonal and regional changes in demand, and changes to the capacity of the world fleet. Adverse industry, economic, political, social or other developments could also decrease the amount and/or profitability of our business and materially reduce our revenues and net income. The nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable and outside of our control. Some of the factors that influence demand for vessel capacity include: • supply and demand for drybulk commodities; • global and regional economic conditions; • the distance drybulk commodities are to be moved by sea; and • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. Some of the factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: • the number of newbuilding deliveries; • the scrapping rate of older vessels; • changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful life of vessels; • the number of vessels that are laid-up; and • changes in global drybulk commodity production. An oversupply of drybulk carrier capacity may lead to reductions in charter rates and our profitability. The market supply of drybulk carriers, primarily Capesize and Panamax vessels, has been increasing, and the number of such drybulk carriers on order are near historic highs. Newbuildings were delivered in significant numbers starting at the beginning of 2006 through 2009. As of December 2007, newbuilding orders had been placed for an aggregate of more than 58% of the current global drybulk fleet, with deliveries expected during the next three to four years. An oversupply of drybulk carrier capacity may result in a reduction of our charter rates. If such a reduction occurs, when our vessels’ current charters expire or terminate, we may only be able to recharter our vessels at reduced or unprofitable rates or we may not be able to charter these vessels at all. 4 Table of Contents An economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region or elsewhere could materially reduce the amount and/or profitability of our business. A significant number of the port calls made by our vessels involve the loading or discharging of raw materials and semi-finished products in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, a negative change in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, but particularly in China or India, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. In particular, in recent years, China has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product. We cannot assure you that such growth will be sustained or that the Chinese economy will not experience contraction in the future. Moreover, any slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union or certain other Asian countries may adversely effect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our revenues and net income, as well as our future prospects, would likely be materially reduced by an economic downturn in any of these countries. Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the government to regulate its economy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in such respects as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation and balance of payments position. Prior to 1978, the Chinese economy was a planned economy. Since 1978, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a “market economy” and enterprise reform. Although limited price reforms were undertaken, with the result that prices for certain commodities are principally determined by market forces, many of the reforms are experimental and may be subject to change or abolition. We cannot assure you that the Chinese government will continue to pursue a policy of economic reform. The level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws, regulations or export and import restrictions, all of which could, adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Charter rates are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may adversely affect our operating results. Our fleet consists of Handysize and Handymax drybulk carriers that operate in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results. The energy markets primarily affect the demand for coal, with increases during hot summer periods when air conditioning and refrigeration require more electricity and towards the end of the calendar year in anticipation of the forthcoming winter period. Grain shipments are driven by the harvest within a climate zone. Because three of the five largest grain producers (the United States, Canada and the European Union) are located in the northern hemisphere and the other two (Argentina and Australia) are located in the southern hemisphere, harvests occur throughout the year and grains require drybulk shipping accordingly. As a result of these and other factors, the drybulk shipping industry is typically stronger in the fall and winter months. Therefore, we expect our revenues from our drybulk carriers to be typically weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30 and, conversely, we expect our revenues from our drybulk carriers to be typically 5 Table of Contents stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. Seasonality in the drybulk industry could materially affect our operating results. The operation of drybulk carriers has certain unique operational risks. The operation of certain vessel types, such as drybulk carriers, has certain unique risks. With a drybulk carrier, the cargo itself and its interaction with the ship can be a risk factor. By their nature, drybulk cargoes are often heavy, dense, easily shifted, and react badly to water exposure. In addition, drybulk carriers are often subjected to battering treatment during unloading operations with grabs, jackhammers (to pry encrusted cargoes out of the hold), and small bulldozers. This treatment may cause damage to the vessel. Vessels damaged due to treatment during unloading procedures may be more susceptible to breach to the sea. Hull breaches in drybulk carriers may lead to the flooding of the vessels’ holds. If a drybulk carrier suffers flooding in its forward holds, the bulk cargo may become so dense and waterlogged that its pressure may buckle the vessel’s bulkheads leading to the loss of a vessel. If we are unable to adequately maintain our vessels we may be unable to prevent these events. Any of these circumstances or events could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. In addition, the loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. We are subject to regulation and liability under environmental laws that could require significant expenditures and reduce our cash flows and net income. Our business and the operation of our vessels are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions and national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which the vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. We are also required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our operations. Because such conventions, laws, regulations and permit requirements are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with such conventions, laws, regulations or permit requirements, or the impact thereof on the resale prices or useful lives of our vessels. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted that could limit our ability to do business and thereby reduce our revenue or increase our cost of doing business, thereby materially decreasing our net income. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the International Safety Management, or ISM, Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive “Safety Management System.” The system includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject such party to increased liability, may decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels, and/or may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. Currently, Lloyd’s Register of Shipping has awarded ISM and International Ship and Port Facilities Security, or ISPS, certification to all of our vessels and to Free Bulkers, our ship management company. There can be no assurance, however, that such certification will be maintained indefinitely. The European Union is considering legislation that will affect the operation of vessels and the liability of owners for oil pollution. It is difficult to predict what legislation, if any, may be promulgated by the European Union or any other country or authority. We currently maintain, for each of our vessels, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes pollution liability coverage, in the amount of one billion dollars per incident. If the damages 6 Table of Contents from a catastrophic incident exceeded our insurance coverage, the payment of these damages may materially decrease our net income. The International Maritime Organization, or IMO, or other regulatory bodies may adopt further regulations in the future that could adversely affect the useful lives of our vessels as well as our ability to generate income from them. These requirements can also affect the resale value of our vessels. The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, established an extensive regulatory and liability regime for the protection and clean-up of the environment from oil spills. OPA affects all owners and operators whose vessels trade in the United States of America or any of its territories and possessions or whose vessels operate in waters of the United States of America, which includes the territorial sea of the United States of America and its 200 nautical mile exclusive economic zone. Under OPA, vessel owners, operators and bareboat charterers are “responsible parties” and are jointly, severally and strictly liable (unless the spill results solely from the act or omission of a third party, an act of God or an act of war) for all containment and clean-up costs and other damages arising from discharges or threatened discharges of oil from their vessels, including bunkers (fuel). If any of our vessels fail to maintain their class certification and/or fail any annual survey, intermediate survey, dry-docking or special survey, that vessel would be unable to carry cargo, thereby reducing our revenues and profitability and violating certain loan covenants of our third-party indebtedness. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention, or SOLAS. Our vessels are currently classed with Lloyd’s Register of Shipping, Korean Register of Shipping, Nippon Kaiji Kyokai, Germanischer Lloyd and Bureau Veritas. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys, dry-dockings and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel’s machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Our vessels are on special survey cycles for hull inspection and continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection. Every vessel is also required to be dry-docked every two to three years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. If any vessel does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey, dry-docking or special survey, the vessel will be unable to carry cargo between ports and will be unemployable and uninsurable, thereby reducing our revenues and profitability. That could also cause us to be in violation of certain covenants in our loan agreements. In addition, the cost of maintaining our vessels’ classifications may be substantial at times and could result in reduced revenues. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arresting or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of funds to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any 7 Table of Contents “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner or managed by the same manager. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one of our vessels for claims relating to another of our vessels or a vessel managed by our manager. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings. A government could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner. A government could also requisition our vessels for hire, which occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels could reduce our revenues and net income. World events outside our control such as terrorism and international and regional hostilities may negatively affect our ability to operate, thereby reducing our revenues and net income or our ability to obtain additional financing, thereby restricting the implementation of our business strategy. Terrorist attacks such as those in New York on September 11, 2001, the bombings in Spain on March 11, 2004 and in London on July 7, 2005, and the continuing response of the United States and other countries to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere continue to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets and may adversely affect our business and operating results by increasing security costs and creating delays because of heightened security measures. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Terrorist attacks and international and regional hostilities may also negatively impact our vessels or our customers directly. The continuing conflict in Iraq and Afghanistan may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to economic instability and could result in increased volatility of the financial markets in the United States of America and globally, an economic recession in the United States of America or the world and a corresponding reduction in our business and future prospects. Any of these occurrences could prevent us from obtaining additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all and have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenues and costs which would impair our implementation of our business strategy. Risks involved with operating ocean-going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which may reduce our revenues. The operation of an ocean-going vessel has inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: • crew strikes and/or boycotts; • marine disaster; • piracy; • environmental accidents; • cargo and property losses or damage; and 8 Table of Contents • business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions. The involvement of any of our vessels in an environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel operator. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues. Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our profits. The cost of fuel is a significant factor in negotiating charter rates. As a result, an increase in the price of fuel beyond our expectations may adversely affect our profitability. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geo-political developments, supply and demand for oil, actions by members of OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns and regulations. Risks Related to Our Company We have a limited operating history and have cumulative deficits. Our company was formed in April 2004, and we did not own or operate any vessels prior to June 2004. We therefore have a limited operating history and limited historical financial data on which to evaluate our operations or our ability to implement and achieve our business strategy. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had cumulative deficits of $2,858,000 and $2,702,000, respectively, which reflects the impact of cumulative losses during 2007 and prior years. If we fail to manage our planned growth properly, we may not be able to successfully expand our market share. We intend to continue to grow our fleet. Our growth will depend on: • locating and acquiring suitable vessels; • identifying and consummating acquisitions or joint ventures; • integrating any acquired vessel successfully with our existing operations; • enhancing our customer base; • managing our expansion; and • obtaining the required financing. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks, such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations and difficulty experienced in (1) obtaining additional qualified personnel, (2) managing relationships with customers and suppliers and (3) integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures. We cannot give any assurance that we will be successful in executing our growth plans or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with the execution of those growth plans. 9 Table of Contents Our charterers may terminate or default on their charters, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Our charters may terminate earlier than the dates indicated in this annual report. The terms of our charters vary as to which events or occurrences will cause a charter to terminate or give the charterer the option to terminate the charter, but these generally include a total or constructive total loss of the related vessel, the requisition for hire of the related vessel, or the failure of the related vessel to meet specified performance criteria. In addition, if we fail to deliver a vessel within the time specified in its charter, the charterer may have the right to terminate the charter. The ability of each of our charterers to perform its obligations under a charter will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control. These factors may include general economic conditions, the condition of the drybulk shipping industry, the charter rates received for specific types of vessels, and various operating expenses. The costs and delays associated with the termination of a charter or the default by a charterer of a vessel may be considerable and may adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We cannot predict whether our charterers will, upon the expiration of their charters, recharter our vessels on favorable terms or at all. If our charterers decide not to recharter our vessels, we may not be able to recharter them on terms similar to the terms of our current charters or at all. If we receive lower charter rates under replacement charters or are unable to recharter all of our vessels, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our earnings may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our vessels. We intend to employ our vessels in fixed-rate period charters and spot charters. While current charter rates are high relative to historical rates, the charter market is volatile, and at times in the past charter rates for vessels have declined below operating costs of vessels. If our vessels become available for employment in the spot market or under new period charters during periods when charter rates have fallen, we may have to employ our vessels at depressed charter rates that would lead to reduced or volatile earnings. We cannot assure you that future charter rates will be at a level that will enable us to operate our vessels profitably or to repay our debt. We will not be able to take advantage of favorable opportunities in the current spot market with respect to vessels employed on medium- to long-term time charters. Five of the seven vessels in our fleet are employed under medium- to long-term time charters, with expiration dates ranging from February 2009 to February 2011. Although medium- and long-term time charters provide relatively steady streams of revenue, vessels committed to medium- and long-term charters may not be available for spot voyages during periods of increasing charter hire rates, when spot voyages might be more profitable. We previously relied on spot charters and may spot charter certain of our vessels in the future. The rates on spot charters are very competitive and volatile, which can result in decreased revenues if spot charter rates decline. Our vessels have previously been spot chartered, which made our historical revenues subject to greater fluctuation. In the future, we may continue to spot charter certain of our vessels. The spot charter market is highly competitive and rates within this market are subject to volatile fluctuations, while longer-term period time charters provide income at pre-determined rates over more extended periods of time. If 10 Table of Contents we decide to continue to spot charter certain of our vessels, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in keeping those vessels fully employed in these short-term markets or that future spot rates will be sufficient to enable those vessels to be operated profitably. If vessels that we acquire for our fleet are not delivered on time or delivered with significant defects, our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay dividends could be adversely affected. We currently expect to take delivery of the M/V Free Lady in June or July 2008. A prolonged delay in the delivery to us of these vessels or any additional vessels we may contract to purchase, or the failure of the contract counterparty to deliver a vessel at all, could cause us to breach our obligations under a related time charter and could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and the ability to pay dividends. The delivery of any of these vessels with substantial defects could have similar consequences. We depend entirely on Free Bulkers and Safbulk to manage and charter our fleet. Our executive management team consists of only two individuals, our chief executive officer and our chief financial officer. We currently contract the management of our fleet, including crewing, maintenance and repair, as well as our financial reporting and internal controls, to Free Bulkers, an affiliated company. Free Bulkers has entered into a sub-management agreement with Safbulk, a company controlled by the Restis family, for the commercial management of our fleet, including negotiating and obtaining charters, relations with charter brokers and performance of post-charter activities. We are dependent upon Free Bulkers for technical management of our fleet and upon Safbulk for our ability to attract charterers and charter brokers. The loss of either of their services or their failure to perform their obligations could reduce our revenues and net income and adversely affect our operations and business. Generally, Free Bulkers is not liable to us for any losses or damages, if any, that may result from its management of our fleet unless Free Bulkers or its employees act with negligence or gross negligence or commit a willful default with respect to one of our vessels. Pursuant to its agreement with us, Free Bulkers’ liability for such acts, except in certain limited circumstances, may not exceed ten times the annual management fee payable by the applicable subsidiary to Free Bulkers. Although we may have rights against Free Bulkers, if Free Bulkers defaults on its obligations to us, you may have no recourse against Free Bulkers. In addition, if Safbulk defaults on its obligations to Free Bulkers, we may have no recourse against Safbulk. Further, we expect that we will need approval from our lenders if we intend to replace Free Bulkers as our fleet manager. Because our seafaring employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, failure of industry groups to renew those agreements may disrupt our operations and adversely affect our earnings. All of the seafarers employed on the vessels in our fleet are covered by collective bargaining agreements that set basic standards. We cannot assure you that these agreements will prevent labor interruptions. Any labor interruptions could disrupt our operations and harm our financial performance. If Free Bulkers is unable to perform under its vessel management agreements with us, our results of operations may be adversely affected. As we expand our fleet, we will rely on Free Bulkers to recruit suitable additional seafarers and to meet other demands imposed on Free Bulkers. We cannot assure you that Free Bulkers will be able to meet these demands as we expand our fleet. If Free Bulkers’ crewing agents encounter business or 11 Table of Contents financial difficulties, they may not be able to adequately staff our vessels. If Free Bulkers is unable to provide the commercial and technical management service for our vessels, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position and our ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected. We, and one of our executive officers, have affiliations with Free Bulkers that could create conflicts of interest detrimental to us. Our chairman, chief executive officer and president, Ion G. Varouxakis, is also the controlling shareholder and officer of Free Bulkers, which is our ship management company. These dual responsibilities of our officer and the relationships between the two companies could create conflicts of interest between Free Bulkers and us. Each of our operating subsidiaries has a nonexclusive management agreement with Free Bulkers. Free Bulkers has subcontracted the charter and post-charter management of our fleet to Safbulk, which is controlled by FS Holdings Limited, one of our principal shareholders. Although Free Bulkers currently serves as manager for vessels owned by us, neither Free Bulkers nor Safbulk is restricted from entering into management agreements with other competing shipping companies, and Safbulk provides management services to other international shipping companies, including the Restis group, which owns and operates vessels in the drybulk sector. Free Bulkers or Safbulk could also allocate charter and/or vessel purchase and sale opportunities to others. There can be no assurance that Free Bulkers or Safbulk would resolve any conflicts of interest in a manner beneficial to us. Operational or financial problems experienced by Free Bulkers, our affiliate, may adversely impact us. The ability of Free Bulkers to continue providing services for us will depend in part on Free Bulkers’ own financial strength. Circumstances beyond our control could impair Free Bulkers’ financial strength and, as a result, Free Bulkers’ ability to fulfill its obligations to us which could have a material adverse effect on us. If Free Bulkers is unable to recruit suitable seafarers for our fleet or as we expand our fleet, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We will rely on Free Bulkers to recruit suitable senior officers and crews as we expand our fleet. In addition, as we expand our fleet, we will have to rely on Free Bulkers to recruit suitable additional seafarers. We cannot assure you that Free Bulkers will be able to continue to hire suitable employees as we expand our fleet. If Free Bulkers’ crewing agents encounter business or financial difficulties, they may not be able to adequately staff our vessels. We expect that all or part of the seafarers who will be employed on the ships in our fleet will be covered by industry-wide collective bargaining agreements that set basic standards. We cannot assure you that these agreements will prevent labor interruptions. If Free Bulkers is unable to recruit suitable seafarers as we expand our fleet, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends may be materially adversely affected. In the highly competitive international drybulk shipping industry, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources. We employ our vessels in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we have. Competition for the transportation of drybulk cargoes can be intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its managers to the 12 Table of Contents charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions that may be able to offer better prices and fleets. A decline in the market value of our vessels could lead to a default under our loan agreements and the loss of our vessels. We have incurred secured debt under loan agreements for all of our vessels. If the market value of our fleet declines, we may not be in compliance with certain provisions of our existing loan agreements and we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing. If we are unable to pledge additional collateral, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our fleet. Servicing debt may limit funds available for other purposes and inability to service debt may lead to acceleration of debt and foreclosure on our fleet. To finance our original fleet of vessels, one of which was sold in April 2007, we incurred secured debt under loan agreements with Hollandsche Bank — Unie N.V. that are guaranteed by us and unsecured, non-interest-bearing shareholder loans. To finance the acquisition of the M/V Free Hero, the M/V Free Jupiter and the M/V Free Goddess, we incurred secured debt under loan agreements from HSH Nordbank AG and BTMU Capital Corporation for an aggregate of $77.1 million in the form of a senior loan and a junior loan, as well as a $14.0 million unsecured loan from FS Holdings Limited, one of our principal shareholders. The drawings under these facilities materially increased our long-term debt, our shareholder debt, and our ratio of debt to total capital. In October 2007, we used a portion of the net proceeds of an offering of our common stock to repay all our shareholders’ loans outstanding. In December 2007, we used the net proceeds of that offering along with a portion of the proceeds of a new $87.0 million senior credit facility from Credit Suisse to repay all amounts due under the junior loan from BTMU Capital Corporation and the amounts due under the senior credit facility from HSH Nordbank AG relating to the M/V Free Hero and M/V Free Goddess and a part of the credit facility relating to the M/V Free Jupiter. On March 19, 2008, we drew under a new loan facility from HBU in connection with the purchase of the M/V Free Knight. On April 2, 2008, we drew under a new loan from First Business Bank S.A. (“FBB”) to finance a portion of the acquisition of the M/V Free Impala. On April 14, 2008, we used a portion of our cash on hand and a portion of the proceeds of the Credit Suisse facility to repay the $28.0 million outstanding under the credit facility from HSH Nordbank AG relating to the M/V Free Jupiter. Following the refinancings described above, the new financings secured for the acquisition of the M/V Free Knight and the M/V Free Impala and the regularly scheduled repayments of our loans to date, we had outstanding an aggregate of $103.7 million in debt. We will be required to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest on our debt. These requirements will increase as we draw additional funds available for the acquisition of new vessels. These payments will limit funds otherwise available for working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes. We will need to incur additional indebtedness as we further expand our fleet, which would increase our ratio of debt to equity. The need to service our debt may limit funds available for other purposes, including distributing cash to our shareholders, and our inability to service debt could lead to acceleration of our debt and foreclosure on our fleet. 13 Table of Contents Continued increase in interest rates would reduce funds available to purchase vessels and service debt. The rise in interest rates since 2005 has caused our interest cost to increase and has had a material adverse effect on our net income. Any further interest rate increases could further reduce our revenues and net income. We have purchased, and may purchase in the future, vessels with loans that provide for periodic interest payments based on indices that fluctuate with changes in market interest rates. If interest rates increase significantly, it would increase our costs of financing our acquisition of vessels, which could decrease the number of additional vessels that we could acquire and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and may adversely affect our ability to service debt. Our loan agreements contain covenants that may limit our liquidity and corporate activities. Our loan agreements impose operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens on our assets; • sell capital stock of our subsidiaries; • make investments; • engage in mergers or acquisitions; • pay dividends; • make capital expenditures; and • change the management of our vessels or terminate or materially amend the management agreements and sell our vessels. In addition, our credit facilities contain a number of financial covenants and general covenants that require us to, among other things, maintain minimum vessel values, minimum cash balances on deposit, minimum working capital and adequate insurance. Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to undertake certain corporate actions. Our lenders’ interests may be different from ours, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders’ permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest. We cannot assure you that we will pay dividends. There can be no assurance that dividends will be paid. We intend to declare and distribute a portion of our available cash from operations as quarterly cash dividends to our shareholders in February, May, August and November of each year. On February 7, 2008, our Board of Directors declared a $0.175 per share dividend, which was paid on February 28, 2008 to shareholders of record as of February 18, 2008. On May 9, 2008, our Board of Directors declared a $0.175 per share dividend to shareholders of record on May 20, 2008 that will be payable on May 30, 2008. We currently expect that this dividend will be followed by a quarterly dividend of $0.175 per share in each of the following two quarters of 2008. However, we may incur other expenses or liabilities that would reduce or eliminate the cash available for distribution as dividends, including as a result of the risks described in this report. Our credit agreements may also prohibit our declaration and 14 Table of Contents payment of dividends under some circumstances. For example, our loan agreement for our senior secured credit facility from Credit Suisse permits payments of dividends to our shareholders provided we are in compliance with certain loan covenants. We may also enter into new financing or other agreements that will restrict our ability to pay dividends. In addition, the declaration and payment of dividends will be subject at all times to the discretion of our board of directors. The timing and amount of dividends will depend on our earnings, financial condition, cash requirements and availability, fleet renewal and expansion, restrictions in our credit agreements, the provisions of Marshall Islands law affecting the payment of dividends and other factors. Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends other than from surplus or while a company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent upon the payment of such dividends; but in case there is no surplus, dividends may be declared or paid out of net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and for the preceding fiscal year. We are a holding company, and we will depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations or to make dividend payments. We are a holding company and our subsidiaries, which are all wholly owned by us either, directly or indirectly, will conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our wholly owned subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make dividend payments depends on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, our board of directors may exercise its discretion not to pay dividends. We and our subsidiaries will be permitted to pay dividends only for so long as we are in compliance with all applicable financial covenants, terms and conditions. In addition, we and our subsidiaries are subject to limitations on the payment of dividends under Marshall Islands laws discussed above. The performance of our existing charters and the creditworthiness of our charterers may hinder our ability to implement our business strategy by making additional debt financing unavailable or available only at higher than anticipated cost. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional debt financing that we will require to acquire additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such financing. Our inability to obtain additional financing at all, or at a higher than anticipated cost, may materially impair our ability to implement our business strategy. As we expand our business, we will need to upgrade our operational and financial systems, and add more staff. If we cannot upgrade these systems or recruit suitable additional employees, our performance may suffer. Our current operating and financial systems may not be adequate if we expand the size of our fleet, and our attempt to improve those systems may be ineffective. In addition, if we expand our fleet, we will have to rely on Free Bulkers to recruit additional shoreside administrative and management personnel. We cannot assure you that Free Bulkers will be able to continue to hire suitable additional employees as we expand our fleet. If we cannot upgrade our operational and financial systems effectively or recruit suitable additional employees our performance may suffer and our ability to expand our business further will be restricted. 15 Table of Contents We are required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to evaluate our controls, which evaluation requires substantial resources. If these evaluations result in the identification of material weaknesses, we may be adversely affected until these weaknesses can be corrected. We are required to comply with a variety of laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (which we refer to as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act), SEC regulations and the NASDAQ Stock Market rules. In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control systems, and attestations as to the effectiveness of these systems by our independent public accounting firm. Our internal controls and procedures will have to be tested on an annual basis. During the course of our annual testing, deficiencies may be identified that we may not be able to remediate to meet the deadline imposed for filing of our annual reports. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In addition, if we fail to correct any deficiencies we identify, we may not obtain an unqualified attestation report from our independent public accounting firm, which will be required for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 and each fiscal year thereafter. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment or obtain an unqualified report could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may reduce the effectiveness of our management and lower our results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our existing management team. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. We have entered into employment agreements with our chairman, chief executive officer and president, Ion G. Varouxakis, and our chief financial officer, Dimitris D. Papadopoulos. Our success will depend on retaining key members of our management team. Difficulty in hiring and retaining personnel could adversely affect our results of operations and ability to pay dividends. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance on any of our officers. Our vessels may suffer damage and may face unexpected dry-docking costs, which could reduce our cash flow and impair our financial condition. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a dry-docking facility. The costs of dry-dock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to pay dry-docking costs that our insurance does not cover. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and reconditioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. The grounding of the M/V Free Jupiter has negatively impacted our financial condition and results of operations. Since our fleet is currently small, the loss of service of any vessels in the future could also have a material adverse effect on our earnings. On September 21, 2007, the M/V Free Jupiter ran aground off the coast of the Philippines. The damage to the vessel has been repaired and the vessel returned to service on February 28, 2008. While we believe that our hull and machinery insurance and our P&I insurance should cover the repair of the vessel and casualty-related liability claims, subject to deductibles of at least $75,000 in the aggregate, we did not at the time have loss of hire or business interruption insurance. Accordingly, we did not begin receiving the $32,000 per day charter hire due under the vessel’s time charter during the period from 16 Table of Contents September 21, 2007 until February 28, 2008, when the vessel was delivered to her charterers. We may also face increased insurance premiums as a result of the grounding incident. As a result, this grounding incident and its consequences have negatively impacted our financial condition and results of operations. Since our fleet is currently small, the loss of service of any of our vessels in the future could also have a material adverse effect on our earnings. Purchasing and operating previously owned, or secondhand, vessels may result in increased operating costs and vessels off-hire, which could adversely affect our earnings. Although we inspect the secondhand vessels that we acquire prior to purchase, this inspection does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition and cost of any required (or anticipated) repairs that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Generally, we do not receive the benefit of warranties on secondhand vessels. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. The average age of our drybulk carriers is approximately 16 years. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations or safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which the vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. If we sell vessels, it is not certain that the price for which we sell them will equal their carrying amount at that time. Unless we set aside reserves or are able to borrow funds for vessel replacement, at the end of a vessel’s useful life our revenue will decline, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Unless we maintain reserves or are able to borrow or raise funds for vessel replacement we will be unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives, which we expect to range from 25 years to 30 years, depending on the type of vessel. Our cash flows and income are dependent on the revenues earned by the chartering of our vessels to customers. If we are unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives, our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay dividends will be materially and adversely affected. Any reserves set aside for vessel replacement may not be available for dividends. Because we will generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but will incur a portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We will generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars, but we expect that portions of our future expenses will be incurred in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. This difference could lead to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the dollar relative to the other currencies, in particular the Euro. Expenses incurred in foreign currencies against which the dollar falls in value can increase, decreasing our net income. For example, during 2007, the value of the dollar declined by approximately 10.65% as compared to the Euro, which resulted in an impact of $85,824 for the year ended December 31, 2007. Further declines in the value of the dollar could lead to higher expenses payable by us. 17 Table of Contents Investment in derivative instruments such as freight forward agreements could result in losses. From time to time in the future, we may take positions in derivative instruments including freight forward agreements, or FFAs. FFAs and other derivative instruments may be used to hedge a vessel owner’s exposure to the charter market by providing for the sale of a contracted charter rate along a specified route and period of time. Upon settlement, if the contracted charter rate is less than the average of the rates, as reported by an identified index, for the specified route and time period, the seller of the FFA is required to pay the buyer an amount equal to the difference between the contracted rate and the settlement rate, multiplied by the number of days in the specified period. Conversely, if the contracted rate is greater than the settlement rate, the buyer is required to pay the seller the settlement sum. If we take positions in FFAs or other derivative instruments and do not correctly anticipate charter rate movements over the specified route and time period, we could suffer losses in the settling or termination of the FFA. This could adversely affect our results of operation and cash flow. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, there were no freight forward agreements outstanding. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us adequately for damage to, or loss of, our vessels. We procure hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes environmental damage and pollution insurance and war risk insurance for our fleet. We currently do not maintain insurance against loss of hire, which covers business interruptions that result in the loss of use of a vessel. We can give no assurance that we are adequately insured against all other risks. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our fleet in the future. Our insurance policies contain deductibles for which we will be responsible and limitations and exclusions which may increase our costs. Moreover, we cannot assure that the insurers will not default on any claims they are required to pay. If our insurance is not enough to cover claims that may arise, we may not be able to repair any damage to our vessels or replace any vessel that is lost or may have to use our own funds for those purposes, thereby reducing our funds available to implement our business strategy. We may have to pay tax on United States source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States may be subject to a 4% United States federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the applicable Treasury Regulations recently promulgated thereunder. We expect that we and each of our subsidiaries will qualify for this statutory tax exemption for 2008 and subsequent years. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to fail to qualify for this tax exemption and thereby be subject to United States federal income tax on our United States source income. For example, we would fail to qualify for exemption under Section 883 of the Code for a particular tax year if shareholders, each of whom owned, actually or under applicable constructive ownership rules, a 5% or greater interest in the vote and value of the outstanding shares of our stock, owned in the aggregate 50% or more of the vote and value of the outstanding shares of our stock, and “qualified shareholders” as defined by the regulations to Section 883 do not own, directly or under applicable constructive ownership rules, sufficient shares in our closely-held block of stock to preclude the shares in the closely-held block that are not so owned from representing 50% or more of the value of our stock for more than half of the number of days during the taxable year. Establishing such ownership by qualified shareholders will depend upon the status of our direct and indirect individual 18 Table of Contents shareholders as residents of qualifying jurisdictions and whether they own shares through bearer share arrangements and will require compliance with ownership certification procedures by individual shareholders that are residents of qualifying jurisdictions and by each intermediary or other person in the chain of ownership between us and such individuals. Due to the factual nature of the issues involved, we can give no assurances on our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. It is not clear whether we will be entitled to the benefits of Section 883 for 2006 and 2007. We do not anticipate, however, that a material amount of United States federal tax would be owed in the event that we do not qualify for the benefits of Section 883 for such years. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries could be subject for those years to an effective 4% U.S. federal income tax on the shipping income these companies derive during the year that are attributable to the transport of cargoes to or from the United States. The imposition of this taxation would have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our proposed method of operation, we do not believe that we will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our time chartering activities does not constitute “passive income,” and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our proposed method of operation. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders will face adverse U.S. tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders), such shareholders would be liable to pay United States federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common shares, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder’s holding period of our common shares. 19 Table of Contents Legislation has been proposed in the United States which would prevent dividends on our shares from qualifying for certain preferential rates for U.S. federal income tax purposes. “Qualified dividend income” derived by noncorporate shareholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax is currently subject to U.S. federal income taxation at reduced rates. We expect that under current law, so long as our shares are traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market or the NASDAQ Global Market and we do not and have not qualified as a “passive foreign investment company” for U.S. federal income tax purposes, distributions treated as dividends for U.S. tax purposes on our shares will potentially be eligible (that is, eligible if certain conditions relating to the shareholder are satisfied) for treatment as qualified dividend income. Proposed legislation in the United States would, however, if enacted, make it unlikely that such distributions on our shares would be eligible for such treatment. As of the date hereof, no assurance can be given regarding whether or not such legislation will be enacted. Risks Related to Our Common Stock There may not be a liquid market for our common stock, which may cause our common stock to trade at lower prices and make it difficult to sell your common stock. Our shares trade on the NASDAQ Global Market, but the trading volume has been low. We cannot predict at this time how actively our shares will trade in the public market or whether the price of our shares in the public market will reflect our actual financial performance. The market price of our common stock has been and may in the future be subject to significant fluctuations. The market price of our common stock has been and may in the future be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Among the factors that have in the past and could in the future affect our stock price are: • quarterly variations in our results of operations; • changes in sales or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; • speculation in the press or investment community about our business or the shipping industry generally; • changes in market valuations of similar companies and stock market price and volume fluctuations generally; • strategic actions by us or our competitors such as acquisitions or restructurings; • regulatory developments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • general market conditions; and • domestic and international economic, market and currency factors unrelated to our performance. 20 Table of Contents The stock markets in general, and the markets for drybulk shipping and shipping stocks in general, have experienced extreme volatility that has sometimes been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. If holders of our warrants exercise their right to purchase shares of our common stock, you will experience immediate dilution. As of April 14, 2008, we have outstanding 200,000 Class A warrants issued to our initial shareholders. Of our publicly traded classes of warrants, we have outstanding as of April 9, 2008 914,138 Class W warrants and 1,655,006 Class Z warrants. Each of these warrants is exercisable to purchase one share of our common stock at an exercise price of $5.00 per share, and our Class A, Class W and Class Z warrants must be exercised for cash. Our Class A warrants expire July 29, 2011, our Class W warrants expire July 29, 2009, and our Class Z warrants expire July 29, 2011. As a result, if holders of our warrants exercise their right to purchase shares of our common stock, we may issue up to 2,769,144 additional shares of our common stock at $5.00 per share, which will cause you immediate dilution. In addition, we are obligated under the unit purchase option sold to the lead underwriter in the initial public offering of our predecessor to issue up to an additional 410,000 shares of common stock. See “Description of Capital Stock — Underwriter’s Unit Purchase Option.” Two of our principal shareholders may effectively control the outcome of matters on which our shareholders are entitled to vote, including the election of directors and other significant corporate actions. Two of our principal shareholders, The Mida’s Touch S.A. and FS Holdings Limited, controlled by Mr. Varouxakis and members of the Restis family, respectively, currently beneficially own approximately 24.7% of our outstanding common stock. While our principal shareholders have no agreement, arrangement or understanding relating to the voting of their shares, they may effectively control the outcome of matters on which our shareholders are entitled to vote, including the election of directors and other significant corporate actions. The interests of these shareholders may be different from your interests. Future sales of our stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may depress the market price for our common stock. These sales could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities in the future. We have registered for resale an aggregate of 840,834 shares of common stock beneficially owned by certain of our shareholders, 3,672,500 shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of our Class W and Class Z warrants (including 151,250 shares of FreeSeas common stock issuable upon exercise of Class W and Class Z warrants owned by certain shareholders), and 410,000 shares issuable upon the exercise of a unit purchase option held by the lead underwriter in the initial public offering of our predecessor. We may issue additional shares of our stock in the future and our shareholders may elect to sell large numbers of shares held by them from time to time. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize us to issue up to 40,000,000 shares of common stock and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which 20,743,456 shares of common stock are currently outstanding. 21 Table of Contents Because the Republic of the Marshall Islands, where we are incorporated, does not have a well-developed body of corporate law, shareholders may have fewer rights and protections than under typical United States law, such as Delaware, and shareholders may have difficulty in protecting their interest with regard to actions taken by our Board of Directors. Our corporate affairs are governed by amended and restated articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain U.S. jurisdictions. Shareholder rights may differ as well. For example, under Marshall Islands law, a copy of the notice of any meeting of the shareholders must be given not less than 15 days before the meeting, whereas in Delaware such notice must be given not less than 10 days before the meeting. Therefore, if immediate shareholder action is required, a meeting may not be able to be convened as quickly as it can be convened under Delaware law. Also, under Marshall Islands law, any action required to be taken by a meeting of shareholders may only be taken without a meeting if consent is in writing and is signed by all of the shareholders entitled to vote, whereas under Delaware law action may be taken by consent if approved by the number of shareholders that would be required to approve such action at a meeting. Therefore, under Marshall Islands law, it may be more difficult for a company to take certain actions without a meeting even if a majority of the shareholders approve of such action. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. It may not be possible for investors to enforce U.S. judgments against us. We, and all our subsidiaries, are or will be incorporated in jurisdictions outside the U.S. and substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries and will be located outside the U.S. In addition, most of our directors and officers are or will be non-residents of the U.S., and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are or will be located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to serve process within the U.S. upon us, our subsidiaries, or our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us for civil liabilities in U.S. courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we or our subsidiaries are incorporated or where our or the assets of our subsidiaries are located would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our subsidiaries based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws or would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or our subsidiaries based on those laws. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents, and under Marshall Islands corporate law, could make it difficult for our shareholders to replace or remove our current board of directors or have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Several provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and by-laws, and certain provisions of the Marshall Islands corporate law, could make it difficult for our shareholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, these provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable. These provisions include: 22 Table of Contents • authorizing our board of directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock without shareholder approval; • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three year terms; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • authorizing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of a two-thirds majority of the outstanding shares of our common shares, voting as a single class, entitled to vote for the directors; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders; • establishing advance notice requirements for election to our board of directors or proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings; and • limiting our ability to enter into business combination transactions with certain shareholders. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public shareholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common shares and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. 