ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the following factors, as well as the other information set forth in this Form 10-K and Quintana’s other SEC filings. Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the events described in this section could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash available for dividends or the trading price of our common stock and cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Company Specific Risk Factors Because we are a new company with a limited operating history, we may be less successful in implementing our business strategy than a more seasoned company. We were formed in January 2005. Our first three vessels commenced operations in April 2005, and our remaining seven vessels commenced operations between May 2005 and November 2005. We have a limited performance record and operating history; therefore, we may be less successful in implementing our business strategy than a more seasoned company. We cannot assure you that our board of directors will declare dividends. For the second and third quarters of 2005, we declared quarterly dividends to shareholders in amounts that were approximately equal to 65% of our available cash from operations during the previous quarter, less any cash reserves for capital expenditures, working capital and debt service. In 2006, our board of directors set its current policy, which is to establish a minimum annualized dividend at the beginning of each fiscal year. The declaration and payment of dividends, if any, will always be subject to the discretion of our board of directors and the requirements of Marshall Islands law. The timing and amount of any dividends declared, if any, will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition and cash requirements and availability, our ability to obtain debt and equity financing on acceptable terms as contemplated by our growth strategy, provisions of Marshall Islands law governing the payment of dividends, restrictive covenants in our existing and future debt instruments, and current and expected market conditions. The international dry-bulk shipping industry is highly volatile, and we cannot predict with certainty the amount of cash, if any, that will be available for distribution as dividends in any period. Also, there may be a high degree of variability from period to period in the amount of cash, if any, that is available for the payment of dividends. We may incur expenses or liabilities or be subject to other circumstances in the future that reduce or eliminate the amount of cash that we have available for distribution as dividends, if any, including as a result of the risks described in this section of the Form 10-K. Our growth strategy contemplates that we will finance the acquisition of additional vessels through a combination of our operating cash flow and debt and equity financing. If financing is not available to us on acceptable terms, our board of directors may determine to finance or refinance acquisitions with a greater percentage of cash from operations to the extent available, which would reduce or even eliminate the amount of cash available for the payment of dividends. We may also enter into new financing or other agreements that will restrict our ability to pay dividends. Under the terms of our revolving credit facility, we will not be permitted to pay dividends if an event of default has occurred and is continuing or would occur as a result of the payment of such dividend. In addition, we are generally not permitted to pay dividends in excess of 65% of our free cash flow. Furthermore, we may not pay any dividends if the value of the collateral securing the credit facility is less than 135% of the amount of loans and letters of credit outstanding under the facility. See “Management’s 12 Table of Contents Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Revolving Credit Facility—Restrictive Covenants.” Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends other than from surplus or while a company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent by the payment of such a dividend. We may not have sufficient surplus in the future to pay dividends. Moreover, our revolving credit facility contains covenants prohibiting us from paying dividends if there is a default thereunder or if a default would result from the payment of such dividends. See "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Revolving Credit Facility.” We can give no assurance that dividends will be paid in the future. Our earnings may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our vessels on medium- or long-term time charters or take advantage of favorable opportunities in the spot market. We expect to employ the majority of our vessels primarily on medium- and long-term time charters. Although medium- and long-term charters provide relatively steady streams of revenue, our vessels committed to such charters may not be available for immediate chartering for spot charters, during periods of increasing charter hire rates when spot voyages might be more profitable. If we cannot recharter these vessels on new medium- or long-term charters following the expiration of previous charters, or employ them in the spot market profitably, our results of operations and operating cash flow may suffer. We cannot assure you that future charter hire rates will enable us to operate our vessels profitably. We may have difficulty properly managing our planned growth through acquisitions of additional vessels. We intend to grow our business through selective acquisitions of additional vessels. Our future growth will primarily depend on: • locating and acquiring suitable vessels; • identifying and consummating vessel acquisitions or joint ventures relating to vessel acquisitions; • enlarging our customer base; • managing our expansion; and • obtaining required financing on acceptable terms. During periods in which charter hire rates are high, vessel values generally are high as well, and it may be difficult to consummate vessel acquisitions at favorable prices. In addition, growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks, such as obtaining additional qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and integrating newly acquired assets into existing infrastructure. We cannot give any assurance that we will be successful in executing our growth plans or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with our future growth efforts. We cannot assure you that we will be able to borrow further amounts under our revolving credit facility, which we may need to fund the acquisition of additional vessels. Our ability to borrow further amounts under our revolving credit facility will be subject to satisfaction of certain customary conditions precedent and compliance with terms and conditions included in the loan documents. Prior to each borrowing, we will be required, among other things, to provide the lenders with acceptable valuations of the vessels in our fleet confirming that they are sufficient to satisfy minimum security requirements. To the extent that we are not able to satisfy these requirements, including as a result of a decline in the value of our vessels, we may not be able to borrow further amounts under our revolving credit facility. Restrictive covenants in our revolving credit facility impose, and any future debt facilities will impose, financial and other restrictions on us. The revolving credit facility imposes, and any future debt facility will impose, operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability to, among other things: 13 Table of Contents • pay dividends or make capital expenditures if we do not repay amounts drawn under the revolving credit facility when due, if there is a default under the revolving credit facility or if the payment of the dividend or capital expenditure would result in a default or breach of a loan covenant; • incur additional indebtedness, including through the issuance of guarantees; • change the flag, class or management of our vessels; • create liens on our assets; • sell our vessels; • merge or consolidate with, or transfer all or substantially all our assets to, another person; and • enter into a new line of business. Our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain, beginning on specified dates, various financial ratios. These include requirements that we maintain a ratio of total debt to total capitalization (each as defined in the credit agreement) of no more than 0.65 to 1.00; minimum liquidity on the last day of each quarter of $525,000 per vessel; a ratio of EBITDA to cash interest expense (each as defined in the credit agreement) of no less than 2.00 to 1.00 on a trailing four-quarter basis; the fair market value of collateral of at least 135% of outstanding loans and letter of credit; and consolidated net worth (as defined in the credit agreement) of at least 80% of $248.0 million. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Revolving Credit Facility—Financial Covenants.” The failure to comply with such covenants would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. As of December 31, 2005, we were in compliance with these covenants. If we breach any of these covenants, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate actions. Our lenders’ interests may be different from ours and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders’ permission when needed. This may limit our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders, finance our future operations, make acquisitions or pursue business opportunities. Servicing future indebtedness would limit funds available for other purposes, such as the payment of dividends. We intend to finance our future fleet expansion program in part with secured indebtedness. We may incur other indebtedness in the future. While we may seek to refinance amounts drawn or incurred, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If we are not able to refinance these amounts on terms acceptable to us or at all, we will have to dedicate cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest of this indebtedness. If we are not able to satisfy these obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, any defaults by them, and the market value of our fleet, among other things, may materially affect our ability to obtain alternative financing. In addition, debt service payments under any future debt agreements or alternative financing may limit funds otherwise available for working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes, such as the payment of dividends. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations, or if we otherwise default under any future debt agreements, our lenders could declare the debt, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable and foreclose on our fleet, which could result in the acceleration of other indebtedness that we may have at such time and the commencement of similar foreclosure proceedings by other lenders. Unless we set aside reserves for vessel replacement, at the end of a vessel’s useful life our revenue will decline. Unless we maintain cash reserves for vessel replacement we may be unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives. Our cash flows and income are dependent on the revenues earned by the chartering of our vessels to customers. If we are unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives, our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay dividends will be adversely affected. Any reserves set aside for vessel replacement would not be available for other cash needs or dividends. While we have not set aside cash reserves to date, pursuant to our dividend policy, we expect to pay out only a specified percentage of our available cash from operations so as to retain funds for capital expenditures, working capital and debt service. In periods where we make acquisitions, our board of directors may limit the amount or percentage of our cash from 14 Table of Contents operations available to pay dividends. See “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities—Dividend Policy.” Purchasing and operating secondhand vessels may result in increased operating costs and reduced fleet utilization. Our current business strategy includes the acquisition of high-quality secondhand vessels. While we have the right to inspect previously owned vessels prior to purchase, such an inspection does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition that we would have if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Secondhand vessels may have conditions or defects that we were not aware of when we bought the vessel and that may require us to incur costly repairs to the vessels. If this were to occur, such hidden defects or problems may be expensive to repair when detected, and if not detected may result in accidents or other incidents for which we may become liable to third parties. Repairs may require us to put a vessel into drydock, which would reduce our fleet utilization and increase our costs. We do not expect to receive the benefit of warranties on secondhand vessels. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. Older vessels are typically less fuel-efficient than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Governmental regulations, safety and other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to some of our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which these vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. When our time charters end, we may not be able to replace them promptly or with profitable ones. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain charters at comparable rates or with comparable charterers, if at all, when the charters on the vessels in our fleet expire. The charterers under these charters have no obligation to renew or extend the charters. We will generally attempt to recharter our vessels at favorable rates with reputable charterers as the charters expire, unless management determines at that time to employ the vessel in the spot market. We cannot assure you that we will succeed. Failure to obtain replacement charters will reduce or eliminate our revenue, our ability to expand our fleet and our ability to pay dividends to shareholders. If dry-bulk vessel charter hire rates are lower than they are now, we may have to enter into charters with lower charter hire rates. Also, it is possible that we may not obtain any charters. In addition, we may have to reposition our vessels without cargo or compensation to deliver them to future charterers or to move vessels to areas where we believe that future employment may be more likely or advantageous. Repositioning our vessels would increase our vessel operating costs. Charterers may default on time charters that provide for above-market rates. If we enter into time charters with charterers when charter rates are high and charter rates subsequently fall significantly, charterers may default under those charters. We intend to enter into time charters only with reputable counterparties, but we cannot assure you that such counterparties will not default on the charters. If a charterer defaults on an above-market time charter, we will seek the remedies available to us, which may include arrest of the vessel and arbitration or litigation to enforce the contract. After a charterer defaults on a time charter, we will likely have to enter into charters at lower rates. It is also possible that we would be unable to secure a charter at all. If we recharter the vessel at lower rates, our revenues will be reduced. 15 Table of Contents Contracts of affreightment may result in losses. Our subsidiary Quintana Logistics LLC may seek to enter into contracts of affreightment. Contracts of affreightment may subject us to risks we do not usually bear in our time-charter business. Because we will usually be paid a per-ton rate under a contract of affreightment but will charter in ships from third parties on a daily-rate basis, we will be exposed to volatility in freight rates between our execution of the contract of affreightment and chartering in of vessels. In addition, we will generally bear risks associated with the length of the voyages, including canal-passage delays, port congestion, inclement weather, and other factors. If these delays occur, we will still be bound to pay charterhire on the ships carrying the cargo, but we will not receive additional amounts under the contract of affreightment. Consequently, delays may reduce our profits under the contract or result in significant losses. The international dry-bulk shipping industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources. We will employ our vessels in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of dry-bulk cargo by sea is intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its operators to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter the dry-bulk shipping industry and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions and may be able to offer lower charter hire rates than we are able to offer. We may be unable to retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may negatively impact the effectiveness of our management and results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team, which was formed beginning in January 2005. Our success will depend upon our ability to retain key members of our management team and to hire new members as may be necessary. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining replacement personnel could have a similar effect. We do not intend to maintain “key man” life insurance on any of our officers. Risks associated with operating oceangoing vessels could negatively affect our business and reputation, which could adversely affect our revenues and stock price. The operation of oceangoing vessels carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: • marine disaster; • environmental accidents; • cargo and property losses or damage; • business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions; and • piracy. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues. Because we only have ten vessels in our current fleet, loss or damage to any one or more of our vessels would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. In addition to any economic cost, the involvement of our vessels in an environmental disaster may harm our reputation. Our lack of operating history may increase these risks. The operation of dry-bulk carriers has certain unique operational risks. With a dry-bulk carrier, the cargo itself and its interaction with the ship may create operational risks. By their nature, dry-bulk cargoes are often heavy, dense and easily shifted, and they may react badly to water exposure. In addition, dry-bulk carriers are often subjected to battering treatment during unloading operations with grabs, jackhammers (to pry encrusted cargoes out of the hold), and small bulldozers. This treatment may cause damage to the vessel. Vessels damaged due to treatment during unloading procedures 16 Table of Contents may be more susceptible to breach to the sea. Hull breaches in dry-bulk carriers may lead to the flooding of the vessels holds. If a dry-bulk vessel suffers flooding in its forward holds, the bulk cargo may become so dense and waterlogged that its pressure may buckle the vessel’s bulkheads, leading to the loss of a vessel. If we are unable to adequately maintain our vessels, we may be unable to prevent these events. Any of these circumstances or events could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. In addition, the loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. Our vessels may suffer damage and we may face unexpected costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired. The costs of repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. The loss of earnings while our vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings and reduce the amount of cash that we have available for dividends. We may not have insurance that is sufficient to cover all or any of these costs or losses and may have to pay costs not covered by our insurance. The shipping industry has inherent operational risks that may not be adequately covered by our insurance. We procure insurance for our fleet against risks commonly insured against by vessel owners and operators. Our current insurance for the vessels of which we have taken delivery includes hull and machinery insurance, war risks insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes environmental damage and pollution insurance. We can give no assurance that we are adequately insured against all risks or that our insurers will pay a particular claim. Even if our insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to timely obtain a replacement vessel in the event of a loss. Furthermore, we may not be able to maintain or obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet. We may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive indemnity insurance coverage for tort liability. Our insurance policies also contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions which increase our costs in the event of a claim or decrease any recovery in the event of a loss. If we acquire additional dry-bulk carriers and those vessels are not delivered on time or are delivered with significant defects, our earnings and financial condition could suffer. We expect to acquire additional vessels in the future. A delay in the delivery of any of these vessels to us or the failure of the contract counterparty to deliver a vessel at all could cause us to breach our obligations under a related time charter and could adversely affect our earnings, our financial condition and the amount of dividends, if any, that we pay in the future. The delivery of these vessels could be delayed or certain events may arise which could result in us not taking delivery of a vessel, such as a total loss of a vessel, a constructive loss of a vessel, or substantial damage to a vessel prior to delivery. In addition, the delivery of any of these vessels with substantial defects could have similar consequences. The aging of our fleet may result in increased operating costs in the future, which could adversely affect our earnings. In general, the cost of maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increases with the age of the vessel. Our fleet has an average age of approximately 7.7 years as of December 31, 2005. As our fleet ages, we will incur increased costs. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates also increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, 17 Table of Contents as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. We may earn United States source income that is subject to tax, thereby reducing our earnings. Under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of our gross income attributable to shipping transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as U.S. source shipping income. Such income generally will be subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless we qualify for an exemption from such tax under Section 883 of the Code. Our ability to qualify for the exemption at any given time will depend upon circumstances related to the ownership of our common stock at such time and thus are beyond our control. In addition, our ability to qualify for the exemption will depend upon our interpretation of Treasury regulations promulgated under Section 883 of the Code, which is subject to uncertainty following certain recent statutory changes described in more detail in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Income Taxes.” While we do not expect to have a material amount of gross income attributable to shipping transportation that begins or ends in the United States, we can give no assurance that we would qualify for the exemption under Section 883 with respect to any such income we earn. Moreover, we can give no assurance that the trading pattern of our ships will not change in the future. As a result, our liability for tax could become material and our net income and cash flow would be reduced by the amount of the applicable tax. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income,” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties that are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC, and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our operations as of December 31, 2005, we do not believe that we are, nor do we expect to become, a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. Since we expect to derive substantially all of our income each year from the time chartering and voyage chartering activities of our wholly owned subsidiaries, we believe that such income will be treated for relevant U.S. federal income tax purposes as services income, rather than rental income. Correspondingly, such income should not constitute “passive income,” and the assets that we or our wholly owned subsidiaries own and operate in connection with the production of that income, in particular our vessels, should not constitute passive assets for purposes of determining whether we are a PFIC in any taxable year. The enactment of proposed legislation could affect whether dividends paid by us constitute qualified dividend income eligible for a preferential rate of federal income taxation. Legislation was recently introduced in the United States Senate that would deny the preferential rate of federal income tax currently imposed on qualified dividend income with respect to dividends received from a non-U.S. corporation, unless the non-U.S. corporation either is eligible for benefits of a comprehensive income tax treaty with the United States or is created or organized under the laws of a foreign country that has a comprehensive income tax system. Because the Marshall Islands has not entered into a comprehensive income tax treaty with the United States and imposes only limited taxes on corporations organized under its laws, it is unlikely that we could satisfy either of these requirements. 18 Table of Contents Consequently, if this legislation were enacted the preferential rate of federal income tax may no longer be applicable to dividends received from us. As of the date hereof, it is not possible to predict with any certainty whether the proposed legislation will be enacted. Because we expect to generate all of our revenues in U.S. Dollars but may incur a portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could hurt our results of operations. We expect to generate all of our revenues in U.S. Dollars. We expect to incur a portion of our operating expenses in currencies other than U.S. Dollars. This difference could lead to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to the other currencies, in particular the Euro. Expenses, including extraordinary expenses, incurred in foreign currencies against which the U.S. Dollar falls in value will be higher in U.S. Dollar terms, resulting in a decrease in our operating income. We have not hedged against exchange-rate risk. Our operating results could suffer as a result. We depend upon a limited number of customers for a large part of our revenues and the loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect our financial performance. We expect to derive a significant part of our revenue from a limited number of customers. If one or more of these customers terminates its charter or chooses not to recharter our vessel or is unable to perform under its charter with us and we are not able to find a replacement charter, or if a customer exercises certain rights to terminate the charter, we could suffer a loss of revenues that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution as dividends to our shareholders. We could lose a customer or the benefits of a time charter for many different reasons, including if: • the customer fails to make charter payments because of its financial inability, disagreements with us or otherwise; or • the customer terminates the charter because we fail to deliver the vessel within a fixed period of time, the vessel is lost or damaged beyond repair, there are serious deficiencies in the vessel or prolonged periods of off-hire, or we default under the charter. If we lose a key customer, we may be unable to obtain charters on comparable terms or may have increased exposure to the volatile spot market, which is highly competitive and subject to significant price fluctuations. The loss of any of our customers, time charters or vessels, or a decline in payments under our charters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations and to make dividend payments. We are a holding company and our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make dividend payments depends on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of a subsidiary to make these distributions could be affected by a claim or other action by a third party, including a creditor, or by Marshall Islands law, which regulates the payment of dividends by companies. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, our board of directors may exercise its discretion not to declare or pay dividends. We do not intend to seek to obtain funds from other sources to pay dividends. As we expand our business, we may need to improve our operating and financial systems and will need to recruit suitable employees and crew for our vessels. We are a recently formed company. Our current operating and financial systems may not be adequate as we continue operations and implement our plan to expand the size of our fleet, and our attempts to improve 19 Table of Contents those systems may be ineffective. We cannot guarantee that we or our crewing agent will be able to hire suitable employees as we expand our fleet. This task will be made more difficult by our strategy of maintaining single nationality crews. If we or our crewing agent encounters business or financial difficulties, we may not be able to adequately staff our vessels. If we are unable to develop and maintain effective financial and operating systems or to recruit suitable employees as we expand our fleet, our financial performance may be adversely affected and, among other things, the amount of cash available for distribution as dividends to our shareholders may be reduced. Industry Specific Risk Factors The international dry-bulk shipping sector is extremely cyclical and volatile; these factors may lead to reductions and volatility in our charter hire rates, vessel values and results of operations. The dry-bulk shipping industry is extremely cyclical with attendant volatility in charter hire rates and industry profitability. The degree of charter hire rate volatility among different types of dry-bulk carriers has varied widely, and charter hire rates for dry-bulk carriers are currently above historical averages. When we enter into a charter when charter hire rates are low, our revenues and earnings will be adversely affected as we do not expect to be able to substantially lower our operating costs during periods of industry weaknesses. In addition, a decline in charter hire rates will likely cause the value of our vessels to decline. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully charter our vessels in the future or renew existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to meet our obligations or to pay dividends to our shareholders. Because the factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable, the nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. Factors that influence demand for vessel capacity include: • demand for and production of dry-bulk products; • global and regional economic conditions; • environmental and other regulatory developments; • the distance dry-bulk is to be moved by sea; and • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. Factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: • the number of newbuilding deliveries; • the scrapping rate of older vessels; • vessel casualties; • the number of vessels that are out of service; • the price of steel; • changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful lives of vessels; and • port congestion. We anticipate that the future demand for our dry-bulk carriers will be dependent upon, among other things, continued economic growth in the world’s economies, including China and India, and will be influenced by seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the global dry-bulk carrier fleet and the sources and supply of dry-bulk cargo to be transported by sea. We believe the capacity of the global dry-bulk carrier fleet will increase. If the supply of dry-bulk carrier capacity increases and the demand for dry-bulk carrier capacity does not increase or increases less quickly, the charter hire rates paid for our vessels could materially decline. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. 20 Table of Contents Charter hire rates in the dry-bulk sector are above historical averages and future growth will depend on continued economic growth in the world economy that exceeds the capacity of the growing world fleet’s ability to match it. Charter hire rates for the dry-bulk sector are above historical averages. We anticipate that future demand for our dry-bulk carriers, and in turn our future charter hire rates, will be dependent upon continued economic growth in the world’s economy, particularly in China and India, and will be influenced by seasonal and regional changes in demand and changes in the capacity of the world’s fleet. We believe the capacity of the world’s fleet will increase and there can be no assurance that economic growth will continue. A decline in demand for commodities transported in dry-bulk carriers or an increase in supply of dry-bulk carriers could cause a decline in charter hire rates which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. We may not be able to draw down the full amount under our revolving credit facility if the market value of our vessels declines. The fair market value of dry-bulk vessels has generally experienced high volatility and market prices for secondhand dry-bulk carriers are currently above historical averages. You should expect the market value of our vessels to fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry and prevailing charter hire rates, competition from other shipping companies and other modes of transportation, types, sizes and age of vessels, applicable governmental regulations and the cost of newbuildings. The terms of our revolving credit facility include the requirement that, in connection with vessel acquisitions, amounts borrowed not exceed a specified percentage of the value of the vessels securing our obligations under the facility. If the value of our vessels declines because of the factors described in the previous paragraph or for any other reason, we might not be able to satisfy this requirement and, accordingly, may not be able to draw down funds to fund potential vessel acquisitions. We may breach some of the covenants under our revolving credit facility if the market price of our vessels, which are currently near historically high levels, declines. Our revolving credit facility contains a covenant requiring that the aggregate market value of the vessels in our fleet at all times exceeds a specified percentage of the aggregate principal amount of debt outstanding under the facility. If the market value of our vessels decreases, we may breach some of the covenants contained in our revolving credit facility. If we do breach such covenants and we are unable to remedy the relevant breach, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our fleet. In addition, if the book value of a vessel is impaired due to unfavorable market conditions or a vessel is sold at a price below its book value, we would incur a loss that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations Our substantial operations outside the United States expose us to political, governmental and economic instability, which could harm our operations. Because our operations are primarily conducted outside of the United States, they may be affected by economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we are engaged in business or where our vessels are registered. Future hostilities or political instability in regions where we operate or may operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. In addition, tariffs, trade embargoes and other economic sanctions by the United States or other countries against countries where our vessels trade may limit trading activities with those countries, which could also harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. 21 Table of Contents Seasonal fluctuations in industry demand could adversely affect our operating results and the amount of available cash with which we can pay dividends. We will operate our vessels in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter hire rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results, which could affect the amount of dividends, if any, that we pay to our shareholders from quarter to quarter. The dry-bulk carrier market is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and other raw materials in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. As a result, we expect our revenues to be weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, we expect our revenues to be stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. This seasonality could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. We are subject to regulation and liability under environmental laws that could require significant expenditures and affect our cash flow and net income. Our business and the operations of our vessels are regulated under international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate, as well as in the country of their registration in order to protect against potential environmental impacts. As a result of highly publicized accidents in recent years, government regulation of vessels, particularly in the area of environmental requirements, can be expected to become more stringent in the future and could require us to incur significant capital expenditure on our vessels to keep them in compliance, or even to scrap or sell certain vessels altogether. For example, various jurisdictions are considering regulating the management of ballast waters to prevent the introduction of non-indigenous species that are considered invasive. While we cannot in every instance predict the extent of the costs that will be required to comply with these requirements, environmental regulations should apply to all vessels registered in countries that have ratified the various conventions upon which such requirements are based, and should therefore apply to most of our competitors to the same extent as they apply to us. These requirements can also affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels, require a reduction in cargo capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of or more costly insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations, natural resource damages, personal injury and property damage claims in the event that there is a release of petroleum or other hazardous materials from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our operations. Violations of, or liabilities under, environmental requirements can result in substantial penalties, fines and other sanctions, including in certain instances, seizure or detention of our vessels. Events of this nature would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends to our unit holders. For additional information on these and other environmental requirements, you should carefully review the information contained in “Business—Environmental and Other Regulations.” We are subject to international safety regulations and the failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to increased liability, may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention. A vessel must undergo Annual Surveys, Intermediate Surveys and Special Surveys. In lieu of a Special Survey, a vessel’s machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Every vessel is required to be drydocked every two to three years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. If any of our vessels does not maintain its class or fails any Annual Survey, Intermediate Survey or Special Survey, the vessel will be unable to 22 Table of Contents trade between ports and will be unemployable. Moreover, as a result, we could be in violation of certain covenants in our revolving credit facility, all of which would negatively impact our revenues and liquidity. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the International Maritime Organization’s International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or ISM Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners and ship managers to develop and maintain an extensive “Safety Management System” that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. We have obtained our own ISM Code certification to operate our vessels. Maritime claimants could arrest one or more of our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a claimant may seek to obtain security for its claim by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could cause us to default on a charter, interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of money to have the arrest or attachment lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could attempt to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in a loss of earnings. A government could requisition one or more of our vessels for title or for hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes its owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes its charterer at dictated charter hire rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspections and related procedures in countries of origin and destination. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery and the levying of customs, duties, fines and other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Furthermore, changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. An economic slowdown in Asia could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We expect that a significant number of the port calls made by our vessels will involve the loading or discharging of raw materials in ports in Asia . As a result, a negative change in economic conditions in 23 Table of Contents any Asian country, particularly China or India, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. In recent years, India and China have been some of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, which has had a significant impact on shipping demand. We cannot assure you that such growth will be sustained or that the Chinese and Indian economies will not experience negative growth in the future. Moreover, any slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union or certain Asian countries may adversely affect economic growth in China, India and elsewhere. Our business, financial position, results of operations, ability to pay dividends, as well as our future prospects, will likely be materially and adversely affected by an economic downturn in any of these countries. World events could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, the bombings in Spain on March 11, 2004 and the continuing response of the United States to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, continues to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets, which may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The continuing conflict in Iraq may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. In addition, political tensions or conflicts in the Asia Pacific Region, particularly involving China, may reduce the demand for our services. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain any additional financing or, if we are able to obtain additional financing, to do so on terms favorable to us. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 