ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Our limited operating history makes it difficult for us to accurately forecast our revenues and appropriately plan our expenses. We commenced operations in 1997 and have a limited operating history. As a result, it is difficult to accurately forecast our revenue and plan our operating expenses. We base our current and future expense levels on our operating forecasts and estimates of future revenues. Revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast because they generally depend on the volume and timing of the orders we receive, which are uncertain. Some of our expenses are fixed and, as a result, we may be unable to adjust our spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenues. This inability could cause our net income in a given quarter to be lower than expected. We have incurred significant operating losses in the past and may not be able to sustain profitability in the future. We experienced significant operating losses from our commencement of operations and were not profitable on a full year basis except for 2004. As a result, our business has a limited record of profitability and may not become profitable or increase in profitability. If we are unable to acquire baby, toddler and maternity products at commercially reasonable prices, if revenues decline or if our expenses otherwise exceed our expectations, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. As a result of our significant operating losses in prior periods, we have accrued substantial net operating loss carryforwards. If we are unsuccessful in generating sufficient net income in future periods, these assets may expire before they are utilized. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate and could be below expectations because we operate in the retail sales industry, which is seasonal. We operate in the retail sales industry, which is seasonal and dependent on general economic conditions, consumer spending and other factors. Our historical results of operations have been moderately seasonal, reflecting a general pattern of peak sales in mid-fourth quarter. We believe that our limited operating history and historical growth trends may have masked the effect of typical seasonal fluctuations. We cannot assure you that our business will continue its historical growth trend, or that it will not conform to industry norms for seasonality in future periods. Companies operating in the retail sales industry typically realize a disproportionate amount of their revenues during the fourth quarter of each calendar year. If our business begins to reflect industry norms for seasonality, we may incur significant additional expenses during our fourth quarter, including higher inventory of product and additional staffing in our fulfillment and customer support operations, in anticipation of increased sales activity. Consequently, if we were to experience lower than expected revenues during any future fourth quarter, whether from a general decline in economic conditions or other factors beyond our control, it would have a disproportionately large impact on our operating results and financial condition for that year. In the future, our seasonal sales patterns may become more pronounced, may strain our personnel and fulfillment activities and may cause a shortfall in revenues as compared to expenses in a given period, which would substantially harm our financial condition and results of operations. Purchasers of baby, toddler and maternity products may not choose to shop online, which would prevent us from increasing revenues. The online market for baby, toddler and maternity products is significantly less developed than the online market for books, music and other consumer products. If this market does not gain widespread acceptance, our business may suffer. Our success will depend in part on our ability to attract consumers who have historically purchased baby, toddler and maternity products through traditional retailers. Furthermore, we may have to incur significantly higher and more sustained advertising and promotional expenditures or price our products more competitively than we currently anticipate in order to attract additional online consumers to our websites and convert them into purchasing customers. 12 Specific factors that could dissuade consumers from purchasing baby, toddler and maternity products from us include: • concerns about buying baby, toddler and maternity products such as luxury strollers, expensive car seats and bedding for their child without a physical storefront, face-to-face interaction with sales personnel and the ability to physically handle and examine products; • delivery time and/or costs associated with Internet orders; • product offerings that do not reflect consumer tastes and preferences; • pricing that does not meet consumer expectations; • concerns about the security of online transactions and the privacy of personal information; • delayed shipments or shipments of incorrect or damaged products; and • inconvenience associated with returning or exchanging purchased items. We intend to undertake acquisitions to expand our business, which may pose risks to our business and dilute the ownership of our existing shareholders. A key component of our business strategy includes strengthening our competitive position and refining the customer experience on our websites through internal development and growth. However, we intend to selectively pursue strategic acquisitions of companies in our industry. Integrating any newly acquired companies may be expensive and time-consuming. To finance any acquisition, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, and, in the case of equity financings, would result in dilution to our shareholders. Any such acquisition may involve a number of risks, including: • Financial risks, such as (1) potential liabilities of the acquired companies; (2) costs associated with integrating acquired operations and businesses; (3) the dilutive effect of the issuance of additional equity securities; (4) the incurrence of debt; (5) the financial impact of valuing goodwill and other intangible assets involved in any acquisitions, potential future impairment write-downs of goodwill and the amortization of other intangible assets; (6) possible adverse tax and accounting effects; and (7) overpayment for the company. • Operating risks, such as (1) the diversion of management’s attention to the integration of the businesses to be acquired; (2) the risk that the acquired businesses will fail to maintain the quality of services that we have historically provided; (3) the need to implement financial and other systems and add management resources; (4) the risk that key employees of the acquired businesses will leave after the acquisition; and (5) unforeseen difficulties in the acquired operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate any acquisitions or, if consummated, successfully integrate the operations and management of future acquisitions. If we are unable to attract and consummate acquisitions, our growth could be adversely impacted. We may not succeed in continuing to establish our brands, which would prevent us from acquiring customers and increasing our revenues. Since we have a limited operating history, a significant component of our business strategy is the continued establishment and promotion of the BabyUniverse, DreamtimeBaby, PoshTots, PoshLiving and PoshCravings brands. Due to the highly-fragmented and competitive nature of the online market for baby, toddler and maternity products, if we do not continue to establish our brands, we may fail to build the critical mass of customers required to substantially increase our revenues. Promoting and positioning our brands will depend largely on the success of our marketing and merchandising efforts and our ability to provide consistent, high quality customer experiences. To promote our brands, we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial expenses related to advertising, public relations and other marketing efforts. The failure of our brand promotion activities could adversely affect our ability to attract new customers and maintain customer relationships, and, as a result, substantially harm our financial condition and results of operations. 13 We face significant competition and may be unsuccessful in competing against current and future competitors. The baby, toddler and maternity products retail industry is intensely competitive, and we expect competition in the market to increase and intensify in the future. Increased competition may result in price pressure, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could substantially harm our financial condition and results of operations. Current and potential competitors include: • independent specialty stores; • retail baby, toddler and maternity products store chains; • other online retailers that sell baby, toddler and maternity products; • department stores, chain stores and mass retailers; • catalog and television shopping retailers; • discount superstores and wholesale clubs; and • online auction websites. Many of our current and potential competitors have advantages over us, including longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, existing customer and supplier relationships, and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources. In addition, traditional store-based retailers offer consumers the ability to physically handle and examine products in a manner that is not possible over the Internet, as well as a more convenient means of returning and exchanging purchased products. Some of our competitors seeking to establish an online presence may be able to devote substantially more resources to website systems development and exert more leverage over the supply chain for baby, toddler and maternity products than we can. In addition, larger, more established and better capitalized entities may acquire, invest in or partner with traditional and online competitors as use of the Internet and other online services increases. Our online competitors can duplicate many of the products, services and content we offer, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. In order to increase revenues and to sustain or increase profitability, we must attract customers in a cost-effective manner. Our success depends on our ability to attract customers in a cost-effective manner. We have relationships with providers of online services, search engines, directories and other websites and e-commerce businesses to provide content, advertising banners and other links that direct customers to our website. We rely on these relationships as significant sources of traffic to our website. Our agreements with these providers generally have terms of one year or less. If we are unable to develop or maintain these relationships on acceptable terms, our ability to attract new customers would be harmed. In addition, many of the parties with which we have online-advertising arrangements could provide advertising services to other online or traditional retailers, including retailers with whom we compete. As a result, these parties may be reluctant to enter into or maintain relationships with us. Without these relationships, traffic to our websites could be reduced, which would substantially harm our financial condition and results of operations. The shopping comparison portals on which we list our products (and through which we currently generate a significant percentage of our customer orders) may alter the terms of their merchant agreements at will, exposing us to a number of risks, including higher fees and an increased challenge of gaining prominent placement of our products on these portals. By virtue of the listing of our products on the various shopping comparison portals through which we currently generate a significant percentage of our customer orders, we are subject to the terms and conditions of such portals’ merchant and similar agreements. These agreements differ from one shopping comparison portal to another, but, in general, they provide that the comparison shopping portals can freely alter the terms and conditions of such agreements. 14 This exposes us to a number of potential risks, including the risk that any or all of these portals may: • implement policies that prohibit our multiple website marketing strategy; • given their relative bargaining power as compared to listing merchants such as us, raise the minimum fees that some of these portals impose; and • alter the bases for a merchant’s initial or default listing on certain of these portals, which currently are dependent on such variables as the product price points or the quality of the merchant’s customer review ratings. Changes in the terms and conditions of our merchant and similar agreements with the shopping comparison portals on which we list our products could change or limit our marketing strategies, which may, in turn, disadvantage us relative to our competitors, particularly those with greater financial resources, increase our operating expenses and otherwise harm our business. Our failure to meet customer expectations with respect to price would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Demand for our products has been highly sensitive to pricing changes. In fact, we believe that a significant percentage of our online shoppers are greatly motivated by price. While we maintain manufacturer’s suggested retail pricing for some popular products, certain of our competitors may discount products below these levels. We may, therefore, be forced to lower prices for certain products. Any such changes in our pricing strategies have had and may continue to have a significant impact on our revenues, gross margins and net income. If we fail to meet customer expectations with respect to price in any given period, our revenues may be negatively impacted and our financial condition and results of operations would suffer. We rely primarily on the sale of baby, toddler and maternity products for our revenues, and demand for these products could decline. The volume and dollar value of purchases of baby, toddler and maternity products, such as strollers, car seats and bedding, may significantly decrease during economic downturns. The success of our business depends in part on macroeconomic factors such as employment levels, salary levels, tax rates and credit availability, all of which affect consumer spending and disposable income. Any reduction in consumer spending or disposable income may affect us more significantly than companies in other industries. Our revenues and results of operations are, in part, dependent on the demand for strollers, car seats and bedding. Should prevailing consumer tastes for these products decline, demand for our products would decline and our business and results of operations would be substantially harmed. Our brands and reputation and our ability to increase revenues may depend on our ability to successfully expand our product offerings. Our ability to significantly increase our revenues and maintain and increase our profitability may depend on our ability to successfully expand our product lines and our targeted product end user age group beyond our current offerings. Specifically, we intend to expand our product offerings in the toddler and maternity markets. If we offer a new product category that is not accepted by consumers or if we offer a series of products that are recalled for safety reasons, our brands and reputation could be adversely affected, our revenues may fall short of expectations and we may incur substantial expenses that are not offset by increased revenues. Expansion of our product lines may also strain our management and operational resources. If we decide to offer new product lines or categories, we may jeopardize our current reputation and experience a decline in our operating results. We currently generate substantially all of our revenue from the sale of baby products. If we decide to commence offering new product lines or categories, our internal sales and delivery processes may not prove effective with respect to such other product categories. In addition, expansion into new product lines or categories may require us to incur significant marketing expenses and capital investments, develop sourcing arrangements with new vendors and comply with additional regulatory requirements. These requirements could strain our managerial, financial and operational resources. 15 Additional challenges that may affect our ability to expand into new product categories include our ability to: • attract and retain suppliers to provide the expanded line of products to our customers on terms that are acceptable to us; • establish or increase awareness of new brands and product categories; • successfully market these new product offerings to existing and new customers; • achieve and maintain a critical mass of customers and orders across these product categories; and • maintain quality control over merchandise drop shipped directly by our suppliers to our customers. We may not be able to successfully address any or all of these challenges. This could hamper a component of our growth strategy, damage our reputation in the eyes of our existing customers or suppliers, and cause a decline in our results of operations. If our fulfillment operations are interrupted for any significant period of time, our reputation and brand could be damaged and our financial condition and results of operations would be substantially harmed. Our success depends on our ability to successfully receive and fulfill orders and to promptly and securely deliver our products to our customers. A portion of our inventory management, packaging, labeling and product return processes are performed from multiple facilities operated by other companies. Our newly-opened Las Vegas fulfillment center is susceptible to damage or interruption from human error, fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, acts of war, break-ins, earthquakes and similar events. We do not currently maintain back-up power systems at our Las Vegas fulfillment center. Our insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur in the event operations at our fulfillment center or a fulfillment center of one of our fulfillment vendors is interrupted. We may transfer or expand our fulfillment operations to a larger, or multiple fulfillment centers in the future. Any interruptions in our fulfillment center operations for any significant period of time, including interruptions resulting from the transfer to a new facility or the conversion to newly developed warehouse management systems, could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to acquire inventory at commercially reasonable prices would result in higher costs and lower gross margins and damage our competitive position. We purchase products for resale either directly from manufacturers, via drop ship arrangements or through our newly opened Las Vegas distribution center, or, to a lesser degree, through our California fulfillment agent. If we are unable to acquire inventory at commercially reasonable prices, our costs may exceed our forecasts, our gross margins and operating results may suffer and our competitive position could be damaged. The success of our business model depends, in part, on our ability to offer prices to customers that are at or below those of traditional baby retailers. We do not have supply agreements with our suppliers or such agreements are cancelable upon 30 days notice, and therefore, they can stop supplying us products at any time, for no reason and with limited or no notice. Our inability to maintain and expand these and other inventory supply relationships on commercially reasonable terms or the inability of our current and future suppliers to maintain arrangements for the supply of products sold to us on commercially reasonable terms would substantially harm our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to successfully expand our fulfillment capabilities, we may not be able to increase our revenues. We fulfill approximately 50% of our orders through our leased Las Vegas fulfillment center. We therefore rely extensively on other companies to fulfill our orders. If we or our vendors fail to quickly and efficiently fill customer orders, our operating results may suffer. The increased demand and other considerations may require us to significantly expand our fulfillment capabilities and facilities in the future. If we or our vendors do not successfully expand our or their fulfillment capabilities to accommodate increases in demand, we may not be able to substantially increase our revenues. Our efforts at expanding our fulfillment capabilities may cause disruptions in other areas of our business which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. 16 We rely on our suppliers and third-party carriers as a large part of our fulfillment process, and these third parties may fail to adequately serve our customers. In general, we extensively rely on our suppliers to promptly ship products to us or directly to the customers. Any failure by our suppliers to sell and ship such products to us or our customers will have an adverse effect on our ability to fulfill customer orders and harm our business and results of operations. Our suppliers, in turn, rely on third-party shippers to ship products to us or directly to the customers. We also rely on third-party shippers for product shipments to our customers. We are therefore subject to the risks, including employee strikes and inclement weather, associated with such carriers’ abilities to provide delivery services to meet our and our suppliers’ shipping needs. Our suppliers’ and third-party carriers’ failure to deliver products to us or our customers in a timely manner or to otherwise adequately serve our customers would damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to accurately manage our inventory, our costs of goods sold may increase more than expected and our reputation, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. While we have historically maintained low levels of inventory, we have recently begun to increase the levels of inventory we carry. Therefore, changes in consumer tastes for our products will subject us to increased inventory risks. The demand for specific products can change between the time we order an item and the date we receive it. Also, if we, our drop shippers or our fulfillment partner under-stock one or more of our products, we may not be able to obtain additional units in a timely manner on terms favorable to us, if at all, which would damage our reputation and substantially harm our business and results of operations. In addition, if demand for our products increases over time, we may be forced to increase inventory levels. If one or more of our products does not achieve widespread consumer acceptance, we may be required to take significant inventory markdowns, or may not be able to sell the product at all, which would substantially harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to effectively manage the growth in our operations may prevent us from successfully expanding our business. We have experienced, and in the future may experience, rapid growth in operations which has placed, and could continue to place, a significant strain on our operations, services, internal controls and other managerial, operational and financial resources. To effectively manage future expansion, we will need to maintain and/or expand our operational and financial systems and managerial controls and procedures, which include the following processes: • transaction-processing and fulfillment; • inventory management; • customer support; • management of multiple supplier relationships; • operational, financial and managerial controls; • reporting procedures; and • training, supervision, retention and management of our employees. If we are unable to manage future expansion, our ability to provide a high quality customer experience could be harmed, which would damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our financial condition and results of operations. Any significant interruption in the availability or functionality of our websites, or our order processing, fulfillment, distribution or communications systems for any reason could seriously harm our business. We have used proprietary information technology systems for order fulfillment, merchandising and our e-commerce platform since our inception. We are continually improving the overall technology infrastructure to improve the shopping experience, order fulfillment capabilities and technical capacity. In that regard, we successfully completed a system conversion project during 2005 to replace our accounting and financial reporting system with software provided by a major software vendor, as well as several projects to improve the security and reliability of our networks. 17 During 2006, we are continuing our technology improvements with two additional important projects. The first relates to the implementation of a system to improve our warehouse management system in our newly-opened distribution center in Las Vegas. The second project relates to the replacement of our proprietary e-commerce platform through an outsourcing contract with a major vendor. Our ability to receive and fulfill orders successfully through our websites is critical to our success and largely depends upon the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems, including the successful conversion of those systems that are undergoing replacement or upgrade. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to unanticipated difficulties encountered during system conversion, upgrade or replacement, as well as to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, terrorist attacks, natural disasters and other catastrophic events, and errors in usage by our employees and customers. Any significant interruption in the availability or functionality of our websites, or our order processing, fulfillment, distribution or communications systems for any reason could seriously harm our business. If the hosting facilities where substantially all of our computer and communications hardware is located fail, our ability to effectively conduct business would be harmed. Our ability to successfully receive and fulfill orders and to provide high quality customer service depends in part on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, acts of war, break-ins and similar events. We do not presently have entirely redundant systems in multiple locations and our business interruption insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. In addition, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of critical data, the inability to accept and fulfill customer orders or the unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer data. The occurrence of any of the foregoing risks could substantially harm our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on the services of our key personnel, any of whom would be difficult to replace. We rely upon the continued service and performance of key technical, fulfillment and senior management personnel. If we lose any of these personnel, our business could suffer. Our future success depends on our retention of key employees, including John C. Textor, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Jonathan Teaford, Executive Vice President, Karen Booth Adams, Chief Executive Officer of Posh Tots, Robert Brown, Chief Financial Officer, and John Studdard, Chief Technology Officer, all of whom we rely on for management of our company, development of our business strategy and management of our strategic relationships. Executive officers of the Company are bound by employment and noncompetition agreements. However, many of our other key technical, fulfillment or management personnel are not bound by employment or noncompetition agreements, and, as a result, these employees could leave with little or no prior notice. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could damage our reputation and brands and substantially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the protection of our proprietary intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of trademark, trade secrets, copyright law and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. These afford only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect and enforce our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our website features and functionality or to obtain and use information that we consider as proprietary, such as the technology used to operate our website, our content and our trademarks. We have registered “BabyUniverse.com”, “DreamtimeBaby.com”, “PoshTots.com”, “PoshLiving.com” and “PoshCravings.com” and the related logos as trademarks in the U.S. and Canada. We have also applied for the registration of the logos in their current formats in the United States and expect to continue to pursue the registration of our key service marks in relevant jurisdictions from time to time. There can be no assurance that any of these applications will be approved, that any issued registration will protect our intellectual property or that third parties will not challenge our marks. In addition, it is possible that trademark protection may not be available or may not be sought in every country in which our services are made available online. 18 Our competitors have, and other competitors may, adopt service names similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to customer confusion. In addition, there could be potential infringement claims brought by owners of other registered trademarks that incorporate variations of our trademarks or servicemarks. Any claims or customer confusion related to our trademarks or service marks could damage our reputation and brands and substantially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently hold several Internet domain names. Domain names generally are regulated by Internet regulatory bodies. We have not registered any country-specific domain names. If we lose the ability to use a domain name in a particular country, we would be forced to either incur significant additional expenses to market our products within that country, including the development of a new brand and the creation of new promotional materials and packaging, or elect not to sell products in that country. Either result could substantially harm our business and results of operations. The regulation of domain names in the United States and in foreign countries is subject to change. Regulatory bodies could establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may not be able to acquire or maintain relevant domain names in all of the countries in which we currently or intend to conduct business. The domain name babyuniverse.co.nz is registered and owned by a company named Baby Universe based in New Zealand. We are not related to or affiliated with the New Zealand company. The New Zealand company sells baby products via the Internet and appears to be focused substantially on the markets of Australia and New Zealand, as it claims on its website that many of its overseas customers place orders for friends and relatives living in Australia and New Zealand. The New Zealand company also claims it can ship to and has customers located in the United States, Canada and other countries where we conduct or intend to conduct business in the future. We have advised the New Zealand website to cease and desist from shipping goods into the United States. Our inability to successfully assert the priority of our rights in the BabyUniverse or our other names, trademarks and brands in the United States or other countries could harm our business and results of operations. Litigation or proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and domain names and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation or adverse priority proceeding could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Finally, we intend to sell our products internationally, and the laws of many countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Assertions by third parties of infringement by us of their intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Other parties may assert infringement or unfair competition claims against us. In the past, we have received notices from third parties alleging that our service marks infringe proprietary rights held by them. We may receive other similar notices from, or have lawsuits filed against us by, third parties in the future. We cannot predict whether third parties will assert claims of infringement against us, or whether any past, present or future claims will prevent us from operating our business as planned or whether any such assertions or claims arising from such assertions will substantially harm our business and results of operations. If we are forced to defend against any infringement claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, we may face costly litigation, diversion of technical and management personnel or product shipment delays. Furthermore, the outcome of a dispute may be that we would need to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may be unavailable on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Increased product returns and the failure to accurately predict product returns could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We offer our customers 30 to 60-day return policies that allow our customers to return most products (except special order items that are subject to a 30% restocking fee) if they are not satisfied with their purchase for any reason. Actual merchandise returns are difficult to predict and may significantly exceed our projections or our expectations. Any significant increase in merchandise returns above our allowances would substantially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 We may be unsuccessful in expanding our operations internationally. To date, we have made very limited international sales, but we anticipate expanding our international sales in the long term. Any international expansion plans we choose to undertake will require management attention and resources and may be unsuccessful. We have minimal experience in selling our products in international markets or in conforming to the local cultures, standards or policies necessary to successfully compete in those markets. We do not currently have any international fulfillment, distribution or server facilities or any website content localized for foreign markets and we cannot be certain that we will be able to establish a global presence if we choose to expand internationally. In addition, we may have to compete with retailers that have more experience with local markets. Our ability to expand internationally may also be limited by the demand for our products and the adoption of e-commerce in these markets. Different privacy, censorship and liability standards and regulations and different intellectual property laws in foreign countries may cause our financial condition and results of operations to suffer. Any future international operations may also fail to succeed due to other risks inherent in foreign operations, including: • the need to develop new supplier and shippers relationships; • unexpected changes in international regulatory requirements and tariffs; • higher costs, and longer delivery times, associated with international shipping; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • longer payment cycles from credit card companies; • potential adverse tax consequences; • lack of infrastructure to adequately conduct e-commerce transactions or fulfillment operations; • the inability to use our various brand names or trademarks; • price controls or other restrictions on or fluctuations in foreign currency; and • difficulties in obtaining export and import licenses. Our failure to successfully expand our operations internationally may cause our financial condition and results of operations to suffer. Risks Related to Our Industry If use of the Internet, particularly with respect to online commerce, does not continue to increase as rapidly as we anticipate, our business will be harmed. Our future revenues and profits are substantially dependent upon the continued use of the Internet as an effective medium of business and communication by our target customers. Internet use may not continue to develop at historical rates and consumers may not continue to use the Internet and other online services as a medium for commerce. Highly publicized failures by some online retailers to meet consumer demands could result in consumer reluctance to adopt the Internet as a means for commerce, and thereby damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Internet may not be accepted as a viable long-term commercial marketplace for a number of reasons, including: • the need to develop new supplier and shipper relationships; • actual or perceived lack of security of information or privacy protection; • possible disruptions, computer viruses or other damage to the Internet servers or to users’ computers; and • excessive governmental regulation. Our success will depend, in large part, upon third parties maintaining the Internet infrastructure to provide a reliable network backbone with the speed, data capacity, security and hardware necessary for reliable Internet access and services. Our business, which relies on a contextually rich website that requires the transmission of substantial data, is also significantly dependent upon the availability and adoption of broadband Internet access and other high speed Internet connectivity technologies. 20 Our revenues may be negatively affected if we are required to charge taxes on purchases. We do not collect or have imposed upon us sales or other taxes related to the products we sell, except for certain corporate level taxes and sales taxes with respect to purchases shipped to customers located in the states of Florida, California, Nevada and Virginia. However, one or more states or foreign countries may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on us in the future. A successful assertion by one or more states or foreign countries that we should be collecting sales or other taxes on the sale of our products could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, discourage customers from purchasing products from us, decrease our ability to compete with traditional retailers or otherwise substantially harm our financial condition and results of operations. Currently, decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect to sales made over the Internet. However, implementation of the restrictions imposed by these Supreme Court decisions is subject to interpretation by state and local taxing authorities. While we believe that these Supreme Court decisions currently restrict state and local taxing authorities outside the states of Florida, California, Nevada and Virginia from requiring us to collect sales and use taxes from purchasers located within their jurisdictions, taxing authorities outside the states of Florida, California, Nevada and Virginia could disagree with our interpretation of these decisions. Moreover, a number of states, as well as the U.S. Congress, have been considering various initiatives that could limit or supersede the Supreme Court’s position regarding sales and use taxes on Internet sales. If any state or local taxing jurisdiction were to disagree with our interpretation of the Supreme Court’s current position regarding state and local taxation of Internet sales, or if any of these initiatives were to address the Supreme Court’s constitutional concerns and result in a reversal of its current position, we could be required to collect sales and use taxes from purchasers located in states other than Florida, Nevada and Virginia. The imposition by state and local governments of various taxes upon Internet commerce could create administrative burdens for us and could decrease our future revenues. Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce is evolving and unfavorable changes could substantially restrict our ability to do business and harm our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to general business regulations and laws as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, restrictions on imports and exports, customs, tariffs, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce. Unfavorable resolution of these issues may substantially harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to protect confidential information of our customers and our network against security breaches could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our financial condition and results of operations. A significant barrier to online commerce and communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, and a failure to prevent security breaches could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Currently, a significant number of our customers authorize us to bill their credit card accounts directly. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect customer transaction data. Any such compromise of our security could damage our reputation and brands and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability which would substantially harm our business and results of operations. In addition, anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. 21 Interruptions to our systems that impair customer access to our websites would damage our reputation and brands and substantially harm our financial condition and results of operations. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our websites, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain customers and to maintain adequate customer service levels. Any future systems interruption that results in the unavailability of our websites or reduced order fulfillment performance could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation and brands and cause our business and results of operations to suffer. Although we have not experienced any material disruption in our services to date, we may be susceptible to such disruptions in the future. We may also experience temporary system interruptions for a variety of other reasons in the future, including power failures, software errors or an overwhelming number of visitors trying to reach our websites during periods of strong demand or promotions. Because we are dependent in part on third parties for the implementation and maintenance of certain aspects of our systems, and because some of the causes of system interruptions may be outside of our control, we may not be able to remedy such interruptions in a timely manner, or at all. Our failure to address risks associated with credit card fraud could damage our reputation and brands and may cause our financial condition and results of operations to suffer. Under current credit card practices, we are liable for fraudulent credit card transactions because we do not obtain a cardholder’s signature. We do not currently carry insurance against this risk. To date, we have experienced minimal losses from credit card fraud, but we face the risk of significant losses from this type of fraud as our revenues increase. Our failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions could damage our reputation and brands and substantially harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to rapidly respond to technological change could result in our services or systems becoming obsolete and substantially harm our financial condition and results of operations. As the Internet and online commerce industries evolve, we may be required to license emerging technologies useful in our business, enhance our existing services, develop new services and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective customers and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. We may not be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt our websites, proprietary technologies and transaction-processing systems to customer requirements or emerging industry standards. Our failure to do so would substantially harm our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 22 