D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We may not succeed in sustaining and expanding the market for our ECLIA business and our free arrangement for ECLIA analyzers, whereby we provide ECLIA analyzers to certain hospitals free of charge, may not be successful in generating additional recurring revenue from sales of our ECLIA reagent kits. We began marketing and selling our semi-automated ECLIA analyzers and reagent kits in September 2004. Our ECLIA system is referred to as a “closed” system since our ECLIA analyzer can only be used with reagent kits manufactured by us and our reagent kits can only be used with our ECLIA analyzer. Gross profit derived from the ECLIA business was RMB202.2 million (US$30.9 million), representing 39.8% of our total gross profit, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011. Seeking to further expand the installed base of our ECLIA analyzers and derive additional recurring revenue from sales of our reagent kits, we started to provide our semi-automated ECLIA analyzers to small and medium-sized hospitals with certain diagnostic volume free of charge to promote the sales of our ECLIA reagent kits in April 2008. We also expect to deliver our fully-automated ECLIA analyzers free of charge to certain large hospitals by approximately the end of 2011. Going forward, the long-term success of our ECLIA business depends on several factors, including our ability to: • successfully promote product awareness of our ECLIA analyzers and reagent kits in the PRC; • develop new reagent kits to expand the applications of our ECLIA reagent kits; • increase the usage of reagent kits in hospitals; • continue to expand the installed base of our ECLIA analyzers and derive recurring revenue from sales of our reagent kits; • competitively price our ECLIA reagent kits; • select effective distributors, • comply with new or changing regulatory requirements and obtain additional regulatory approvals or clearances for new reagent kits in a timely manner; and • successfully launch our fully-automated ECLIA analyzers and reagent kits in the PRC. 8 Table of Contents Luminescence immunoassay technology is a well established method of clinical diagnosis. As a result, our ECLIA business is competing in a market in which there are already many established industry players. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully market or sell our ECLIA analyzers and reagent kits in the future. In addition, we cannot assure you that our free arrangement for ECLIA analyzers would successfully expand the installed base of our ECLIA analyzers and increase recurring revenue from sales of reagent kits and that there would be no negative impact on our existing customer base or revenue stream. We also cannot assure you that our ECLIA business, or any future enhancements to our ECLIA business, will generate adequate revenue to offset our investments and costs in acquiring, developing or marketing our ECLIA business. If there is insufficient demand for our ECLIA analyzers and reagent kits, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. In addition, any announcement of new products, services or enhancements by us or our competitors may cause our customers to cancel or postpone purchasing decisions for our existing products in anticipation of these new products, services or enhancements. We may not succeed in sustaining and expanding the market for our FISH business. We only introduced our FISH business to the market in June 2007. We develop and manufacture FISH probes internally. Our FISH probes can be used with fluorescent microscopes purchased directly from manufacturers. We also sold fluorescent microscopes to customers which were manufactured by third parties until April 2009. Gross profit derived from the FISH business was RMB395.0 million (US$60.3 million), representing 77.8% of our total gross profit, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011. The success of our FISH business depends on several factors, including our ability to: • successfully promote product awareness of FISH probes in the PRC; • expand our direct sales force targeting large hospitals; • maintain our competitive position in the market and set competitive prices for our FISH probes; • develop new FISH probes to expand the applications of diagnosis for new diseases and disorders; and • comply with new or changing regulatory requirements and obtain additional regulatory approvals or clearances for new FISH probes in a timely manner. FISH is an established technology for clinical diagnosis of genetic syndromes in the prenatal and postnatal settings and diagnosis of cancers in western countries. As a result, our FISH probes are competing in the Chinese market in which there are international players with extensive experience. The penetration rate of FISH probes in the PRC is low and we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully market or sell our FISH probes despite our cost advantage and our distribution experience in the PRC. We also cannot assure you that our FISH probes, or any future enhancements to our FISH probes, will generate adequate revenue to offset our investments and costs in acquiring, developing or marketing our FISH probes. If there is insufficient demand for our FISH probes, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, any announcement of price change, new products, services or enhancements by us or our competitors may cause our customers to cancel or postpone purchasing decisions for our FISH probes. We may not succeed in developing and expanding a market for our SPR analyzers and HPV-DNA chips. We acquired our SPR technology and related assets in December 2008 and only began to introduce our SPR analyzers and HPV-DNA chips to certain existing hospital customers in April 2009. Since then, the progress of the placement of our SPR analyzers with hospitals was significantly affected because the attention of our senior management was significantly diverted to the internal investigation which is discussed below under the heading “—Allegations of irregularities or improper conduct of our management, whether true or false, may cause us to undertake internal investigations and may cause government agencies to initiate investigations against us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and reputation and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations”. As a result, we only started to deliver our SPR analyzers to our customers free of charge in January 2010 and generate revenue from the sale of HPV-DNA chips following the 9 Table of Contents approval by the PRC State Food and Drug Administration (“SFDA”) which was granted in June 2010. As of March 31, 2011, we had delivered over 110 SPR analyzers free of charge to large hospitals which are also users of our FISH probes. We are now focusing on promoting the usage of our SPR-based HPV-DNA chips among these hospitals to increase the utilization of our HPV-DNA chips on our installed analyzers and expect to provide additional free analyzers to only a limited number of select hospitals in the near term. Our SPR system is referred to as a “closed” system since our SPR analyzer can only be used with DNA chips manufactured by us and our DNA chips can only be used with our SPR analyzer. We provide our SPR analyzers free of charge to large hospitals, in order to expand the installed base of our SPR analyzers and derive recurring revenue from sales of our DNA chips. The success of our SPR business depends on several factors, including our ability to: • devote sufficient management attention and resources to the promotion and development of our SPR business; • successfully promote product awareness of our SPR analyzers and DNA chips in the PRC; • develop new DNA chips to expand the applications for the diagnosis of new diseases and disorders; • continue to expand the installed base of our SPR analyzers and derive recurring revenue from sales of our DNA chips; • competitively price our DNA chips; and • comply with new or changing regulatory requirements and obtain additional regulatory approvals or clearances for new DNA chips in a timely manner. We are the first company in the PRC to manufacture SPR analyzers and HPV-DNA chips for clinical diagnosis and we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully market or sell our DNA chips. In addition, we cannot assure you that our free arrangement for SPR analyzers would successfully expand the installed base of our SPR analyzers and increase recurring revenue from sales of DNA chips. Moreover, we are developing a new automated SPR analyzer which we may determine to sell to hospitals instead of giving them free of charge, depending on market conditions, customer demand and other factors. There can be no assurance, however, that hospitals will be willing to pay for our SPR analyzers at the prices we establish or at all, if we opt to sell them in future periods. We also cannot assure you that our HPV-DNA chips, or any new DNA chips that we may develop in the future, will generate adequate revenue to offset our investments and costs in acquiring, developing and marketing our SPR analyzers and DNA chips. If there is insufficient demand for our DNA chips, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, any announcement of price change, new products, services or enhancements by us or our competitors may cause our customers to cancel or postpone purchasing decisions for our DNA chips. In addition, our limited operating history with the SPR system may not provide a meaningful basis for you to evaluate our business, financial performance and prospects in our SPR business. We may not have sufficient experience to address the risks frequently encountered by early-stage companies or companies exploring in new industries, and as a result we may not be able to: • maintain or expand our market share and profitability; • continue to effectively commercialize our SPR system; • acquire and retain hospital customers through our direct sales force; • attract, train, motivate and retain qualified personnel; • keep up with evolving industry standards and market developments; • increase the market awareness and increase the penetration rate of our SPR system in the PRC; • respond to competitive market conditions; • maintain adequate control of our expenses; • manage our relationships with our direct-selling hospitals; or • protect our proprietary technologies. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks, our business may be materially and adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents A reduction in, or a failure to increase, the revenues of our ECLIA reagent kits, FISH probes and HPV-DNA chips would cause our revenues to decline and could materially harm our business. We have derived substantially all or all of our revenues from sales of our ECLIA reagent kits, FISH probes and HPV-DNA chips. We expect sales of our ECLIA reagent kits, FISH probes and HPV-DNA chips will continue to comprise a major portion of our revenues. Therefore, a reduction in, or our failure to increase, revenues from sales of our ECLIA reagent kits FISH probes and HPV-DNA chips, could materially harm our business, results of operations and prospects. Our ECLIA customers, mainly distributors, reduced their inventory levels in the first half of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 and certain customers ceased purchasing from us in anticipation of price reductions on our ECLIA reagent kits and we reduced the selling price of our ECLIA reagent kits in September 2009. The reduction in orders for our ECLIA reagent kits and their selling prices negatively affected our revenues from the ECLIA business in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2010 and 2011, and such negative impact may continue. While we have adopted, and will continue to adopt, measures to increase the sales of our ECLIA reagent kits, we cannot assure you that these measures will be effective or that our revenues from sales of ECLIA reagent kits will not decline further. A similar reduction in orders and prices of our FISH probes and HPV-DNA chips could occur at any time, which would cause our revenues from the FISH business and SPR business to decline. If we fail to successfully address the decline in the sales of our ECLIA reagent kits or experience a decline in the sales of our FISH probes or HPV-DNA chips, our revenues may decline significantly and our business and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitors may take advantage of our proprietary technology and know-how and compete directly against us. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technologies. In the PRC, we own 12 invention patents and 13 utility patents relating to our ECLIA technology. We also own two utility patents relating to our FISH technology and two invention patents relating to our SPR technology in the PRC. Invention patents are granted for invention or discovery of any new and useful process or article of manufacture, or any new and useful improvement thereof. Utility patents are granted for invention of a new and practical structure or form, or a combination of both, for an article of manufacture. We have been granted one patent for ECLIA technology in the United States and one patent for SPR technology in the United Kingdom. In addition, we have filed 22 patent applications related to our SPR technology in the United States and the European Union. Due to the different regulatory bodies and varying requirements in the United States, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain patent protection for all or any aspects of our ECLIA, FISH and SPR technologies in the United States other than those we have already received. The process of seeking patent protection can be lengthy and expensive, and we cannot assure you that our patent applications will result in patents being issued or that our existing or future issued patents will be sufficient to provide us with meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Our patents and patent applications may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented in the future. We cannot assure you that our current or potential competitors, many of which have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, do not have, and will not develop, products that compete directly with our products despite our intellectual property rights. We also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and other non-patentable technologies, which we seek to protect through non-disclosure agreements with employees. We cannot assure you that these non-disclosure agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets, proprietary know-how and other non-patentable technologies will not otherwise become known to, or be independently developed by, our competitors. 11 Table of Contents Implementation and enforcement of the PRC intellectual property-related laws have historically been deficient and ineffective, and are hampered by corruption and local protectionism. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in the PRC may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive, and we might need to resort to litigation to enforce or defend patents issued to us or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of others. The experience and capabilities of the PRC courts in handling intellectual property litigation varies, and outcomes are unpredictable. Further, such litigation may require significant expenditure of cash and management efforts and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may adversely affect our business, prospects and reputation. We may be exposed to intellectual property infringement and other claims by third parties, which, if successful, could cause us to pay significant damage awards and incur other costs. Our success also depends in large part on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. As litigation becomes more common in the PRC in resolving commercial disputes, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. The validity and scope of claims relating to medical device technology patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings can be costly and time consuming, with unpredictable outcomes, and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. Courts in some jurisdictions in the PRC are inexperienced in these types of cases, and may be influenced by local protectionism. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could (i) subject us to significant liability, including damage awards, to third parties, (ii) require us to seek licenses from third parties, to pay ongoing royalties, or to redesign our products or (iii) subject us to injunctions preventing the manufacture and sale of our products. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products until resolution of such litigation. Unauthorized use of our brand name by third parties, and the expenses incurred in developing and preserving the value of our brand name, may adversely affect our business. Our brand name is critical to our success. Unauthorized use of our brand name by third parties may adversely affect our business and reputation, including the perceived quality and reliability of our products. We rely on trademark law, company brand name protection policies and agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect the value of our brand name. Despite our precautions, we cannot assure you that those procedures provide effective prevention for unauthorized third-party use of our brand name. Enforceability, scope and validity of protection of trademarks in the PRC are uncertain and still evolving, and we may not be successful in prosecuting unauthorized third-party use. Future litigation could also result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business strategy to grow through acquisitions of new products or technologies may result in integration costs, failures and dilution to existing shareholders. An important business strategy of ours is to acquire and commercialize medical technologies and products with significant market potential. We continue to seek attractive opportunities to acquire new products or technologies, particularly those that could assist us in advancing our current products, technologies and market penetration, or in expanding our product offerings or technologies. If we decide to acquire another company or its assets in order to obtain its products or technologies, we would face a number of risks including consummating the acquisition on unfavorable terms and not obtaining adequate financing, which may adversely affect our ability to develop new products and services and to compete in our rapidly changing marketplace. These acquisitions could also require that our management develop expertise in new areas, manage new business 12 Table of Contents relationships and trade models, and attract new customers. Successful management and integration of acquisitions are subject to a number of risks, including difficulties in assimilating acquired operations and managing remote operations, potential loss of key employees, diversion of management’s attention from existing business operations, assumption of contingent liabilities and incurrence of potentially significant write-offs, which may adversely affect our business or results of operations. Rapid growth and a rapidly changing operating environment could place a strain on our limited resources. Our growth strategy includes our efforts to build our brand, develop new products, increase the installed base of our semi-automated ECLIA systems by targeting small to medium-sized hospitals, launch our fully-automated ECLIA systems by targeting large hospitals, as well as high volume users among medium-sized hospitals, and accelerate market acceptance of our FISH probes and SPR systems in large hospitals. This growth strategy requires significant capital resources, and we may not generate an adequate return on our investment. As noted above, growth may also involve the acquisition of new products or technologies which could further strain our resources. We may also experience difficulties integrating any acquisition into our existing businesses and operations. The success of our growth strategy also depends in part on our ability to utilize our financial, operational and management resources and to attract, train, motivate and manage an increasing number of employees. The success of our growth strategy depends on a number of internal and external factors, such as: • the growth of the market for medical devices and supplies in the PRC; • increased customer awareness and acceptance of our products; • continued enhancement of our research and development capabilities; • development of new ECLIA reagent kits, FISH probes and DNA chips to expand the applications of diagnosis for new diseases and disorders; and • competition from companies that offer IVD products or alternative diagnostic products in the PRC. Many of these factors are beyond our control and we may not be able to implement our growth strategy successfully or manage our expansion effectively. We have a major shareholder that could exert substantial influence over our business, and its interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. Currently, Chengxuan, which is beneficially owned by Mr. Xiaodong Wu, our founder, the chairman of our board of directors and our chief executive officer, beneficially owns approximately 23% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Chengxuan could exert substantial influence over matters such as electing directors and approving material mergers, acquisitions or other business combination transactions. The interests of Chengxuan may differ from the interests of our other shareholders. In addition, the concentration of ownership in Chengxuan may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our Company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. In cases where the interests of our significant shareholders are aligned and they vote together, these shareholders will also have the power to prevent or cause a change in control. If we grant additional share options, restricted shares or other share-based compensation in the future, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. We adopted a stock option plan in 2005 and an equity incentive plan in 2009. As of March 31, 2011, we have granted options to purchase 1,550,000 of our ordinary shares and 7,930,000 restricted shares under our 2005 stock option plan, as amended and restated, and 5,350,000 restricted shares under our 2009 equity incentive plan. Our 2005 stock option plan expired on December 31, 2009. 13 Table of Contents For accounting purposes, we measure the fair value of share options and other share-based compensation based on the fair value of equity-classified awards on the date of the grant, with the related compensation expense recognized generally over the period in which the recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the equity award. If we grant additional options, restricted shares or other equity incentives to our employees in the future, we could incur significant compensation expenses which could materially reduce our net income, and your investment in our ADSs could be significantly diluted. We are highly dependent on senior management and key research and development personnel. We are highly dependent on our senior management to manage our businesses and operations and our key research and development personnel for the development of new technologies and applications and the enhancement of our existing products. In particular, we rely substantially on our chairman and chief executive officer, Mr. Xiaodong Wu, to manage our operations. We also depend on our key research personnel. In addition, we also rely on customer service personnel for the installation and support of our products and on marketing and sales personnel, engineers and other personnel with technical and industry knowledge to market, sell, install and service our products. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our senior management or key personnel. The loss of any of our senior management or key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Competition for senior management and research and development personnel is intense, and the pool of suitable candidates is limited. We may be unable to locate a suitable replacement for any senior management or key research and development personnel that we lose. In addition, if any member of our senior management or key research and development personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, they may compete with us for customers, business partners and other key professionals and staff members of our Company. Although each of our senior management and key research and development personnel has signed a confidentiality and non-competition agreement in connection with his employment with us, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully enforce these provisions in the event of a dispute between us and any member of our senior management or key research and development personnel. We compete for qualified personnel with other medical technology companies, medical device and supplies manufacturers, universities and research institutions. Intense competition for these personnel could cause our compensation costs to increase significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our future success and ability to grow our business will depend in part on the continued service of these individuals and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional qualified personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, we may be unable to meet our business and financial goals. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Certain of our employees and consultants were previously employed at other biotechnology or medical device companies, including our competitors or potential competitors, or at universities or other research institutions. We may be subject to claims that these employees, consultants or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to our management. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could delay or prevent us from commercializing one or more of our products. Allegations of irregularities or improper conduct of our management, whether true or false, may cause us to undertake internal investigations and may cause government agencies to initiate investigations against us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and reputation and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our audit committee received an anonymous letter, in which allegations of irregularities and improper conduct were made against our senior management in connection with our acquisition of the FISH business and 14 Table of Contents the SPR technology and related assets, our disposal of the HIFU business, our revenues as well as our relationships with stock analysts. Our audit committee, consisting of three independent directors, initiated an independent internal investigation into the allegations and engaged an independent law firm as well as independent forensic accountants to assist the audit committee to carry out the independent internal investigation in April 2009. Our audit committee completed the investigation and reported that the investigation did not identify any evidence to support the allegations made in the anonymous letter. During the course of the investigation, our senior management team and certain management personnel were required to devote significant time and effort to assist with the investigation and therefore had less time to spend on our operations, which we believe contributed to the decline in our sales and the delay for the launch of our SPR system. The costs of the investigation also increased our general and administrative expenses substantially for the quarter ended June 30, 2009 and the quarter ended September 30, 2009. In addition, our audit committee noted that our PRC subsidiaries had provided gifts to third parties mainly during festivals in the PRC for the past few years but, after further inquiry, it was determined that the value of the gifts was small and there was no evidence that the gifts were used for an improper purpose. Thereafter, our audit committee proposed measures to enhance our policies and procedures with respect to gifts. These measures were approved by our board of directors and have been implemented by us from April 1, 2010. We cannot assure you that similar allegations of irregularities or improper conduct of our management or questions regarding the conduct of our employees and management will not occur in the future. If similar allegations are made or potential impermissible conduct within our Company otherwise comes to our attention, we may need to undertake an internal investigation. In addition, the allegations we have received and any future allegations of similar nature may cause government agencies that have supervisory power or regulatory authority over us to initiate investigations against us. Any of these investigations could be costly and time-consuming and may divert a significant amount of our management attention and resources. Therefore, any allegation of irregularity or improper conduct of our management with evidence could have material adverse effect on our business, prospects and reputation and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to expand and maintain an effective sales force or successfully develop and maintain our relationship with distributors, our business, prospects and brand may be materially and adversely affected. We currently market and sell substantially all of our ECLIA products to third-party distributors, while our FISH probes, SPR analyzers and HPV-DNA chips are promoted, marketed or sold solely through our own direct sales force. As part of our growth plan, we intend to increase the number of distributors we utilize to distribute our ECLIA products and strengthen and grow our direct sales force targeting large hospitals to sell our FISH probes and HPV-DNA chips. We have limited experience in managing a large sales force and distributor network. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain an effective sales force or maintain our relationships with third-party distributors. If we fail to do any one of those, our sales could fail to grow or could even decline, and our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected. The expansion of our sales force and distribution network is also likely to require a significant investment of financial resources and management efforts, and the benefits, if any, which we gain from such expansion may not be sufficient to generate an adequate return on our investment. If we fail to effectively manage the activities of our distributors, our business, prospects and brand may be materially adversely affected by actions taken by our distributors. We have a limited ability to manage the activities of our third-party distributors, who are independent from us. Our distributors could take one or more of the following actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and brand: • sell products that compete with our products in breach of their non-competition agreements with us; 15 Table of Contents • fail to adequately promote our products; • fail to provide proper service to our end-users; or • violate the anti-corruption laws that apply to us in the PRC or elsewhere. Failure to adequately manage our distribution network or the non-compliance of our distributors with their obligations under distribution agreements with us could harm our corporate image among end users of our products and disrupt our sales, resulting in a failure to meet our sales goals. The PRC government has increased its anti-bribery efforts in the healthcare sector to reduce improper payments received by hospital administrators and doctors in connection with the purchase of pharmaceutical products and medical devices. Our distributors may violate these laws or otherwise engage in illegal practices with respect to their sales or marketing of our products which could damage our reputation and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant interruption in supply could prevent or limit our ability to provide our products to customers on a timely basis. We purchase all our materials and major components from third-party suppliers and assemble and manufacture our products in-house. Currently, we do not have any material long-term supply contracts with our suppliers. Our purchases are made on a purchase order basis. If the supply of certain materials, components or services is interrupted, our own manufacturing process would be delayed. We may be unable to secure alternative sources of supply in a timely and cost-effective manner. We purchase the components of our ECLIA analyzer and SPR analyzer from various domestic and international suppliers. The raw materials for our ECLIA reagent kits, FISH probes and HPV-DNA chips are also supplied by various domestic and international vendors. The failure of any of these suppliers to provide materials to us, particularly if we are unable to obtain materials and major components from alternative sources on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms, could impair our ability to manufacture our products or increase our costs. We also plan to further increase the production and sales of our products in the future. If we are unable to obtain required materials and components that meet our production standards in sufficient quantities or at acceptable cost, we will be unable to increase our production and sales as planned. Failure to obtain adequate supplies of materials, components or services in a timely and cost-effective manner could delay our delivery to our customers. This delay could harm our reputation, cause us to lose sales, and force us to use more expensive sources of supply, which could significantly increase our production costs and harm our operating results. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our costs could substantially increase if we experience a significant number of warranty claims or repair requests. We generally provide 12-month product warranties against technical defects of our ECLIA analyzers and SPR analyzers, including free analyzers delivered to customers. Our product warranty requires us to repair defects arising from product design and production process and if necessary, replace defective components. Historically, we have received a limited number of warranty claims or repair requests for our ECLIA analyzers and SPR analyzers. The costs associated with our warranty claims or repair requests have historically been relatively low. Thus, we generally do not accrue any liability for potential warranty claims at the time of sales, but rather at the time claims are actually made. We also replace ECLIA reagent kits, FISH probes and HPV-DNA chips if they are found to be defective. If we experience an increase in warranty claims or if our repair and replacement costs associated with warranty claims increase significantly, we will begin to incur liabilities for potential warranty claims at the time of delivery of our products. An increase in the frequency of warranty claims or amount of warranty costs may harm our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to product liability exposure and have no relevant insurance coverage. Our products are medical devices and we are exposed to potential product liability claims in the event that our products fail to function properly or the use of our products causes or is alleged to have caused personal injuries or other adverse effects. A successful product liability claim against us could require us to pay substantial damages. Product liability claims against us, whether or not successful, are costly and time-consuming to defend. Also, in the event that our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign such products. We do not have any product liability insurance to cover potential product liability arising from the use of our products. In addition, as the insurance industry in the PRC is still in an early stage of development, product liability insurance available in the PRC offers limited coverage compared to coverage offered in many other countries. We cannot assure you that a product liability claim will not be brought against us in the future. A product liability claim, with or without merit, could result in significant adverse publicity against us, and could have a material adverse effect on the marketability of our products and our reputation, which in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations might be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic events. Substantially all of our manufacturing and research and development facilities are located in Beijing, PRC. We do not maintain back-up facilities, so we depend on our manufacturing and other facilities for the continued operation of our business. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events, including power interruptions, water shortages, storms, fires, earthquakes, floods, terrorist attacks and wars could disrupt our operations. We might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions, for which we do not have insurance coverage, and our operations and financial results might be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, any such event could delay our research and development programs. If we are unable to successfully operate and manage our manufacturing operations, we may experience a decrease in revenues and gross margin. As we ramp up our manufacturing operations to accommodate our planned growth, we may encounter difficulties associated with increasing production scale, including shortages of qualified personnel to operate our equipment, assemble our products or manage manufacturing operations, as well as shortages of key raw materials or components for our products. In addition, we may also experience difficulties in producing sufficient quantities of products or in achieving desired product quality. If we are unable to successfully operate and manage our manufacturing operations to meet our needs, we may not be able to provide our customers with the quantity or quality of products they require in a timely manner. This could cause us to lose customers and result in reduced revenues and gross margin. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could cause our ADS price to decline. Our revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter depending upon numerous factors. Factors that may affect the fluctuation of our quarterly operating results include changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors, the length of our sales cycle, the timing and market acceptance of new product introductions and product enhancements by us or our competitors, customer order deferrals in anticipation of new or enhanced products offered by us or our competitors, the loss of key sales personnel or distributors, the commencement of any internal investigation, changes in government policies or regulations and a downturn in general economic conditions in the PRC. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and you should not rely on our results of operations for prior quarters as an indication of our results in any future period. As our revenues vary from quarter to quarter, our business is difficult to predict, and our quarterly results could fall below investor expectations, which could cause our ADS price to decline. Our future capital needs are uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future. We may require additional cash resources in the future due to: • changed business conditions or other future developments; 17 Table of Contents • the receipt of, and the time and expenses required to obtain and maintain, regulatory clearances and approvals; • the resources we devote to developing, marketing and producing our products; • our ability to identify and our desire or need to pursue acquisitions or other investments; • the extent to which our products generate market acceptance and demand; and • the need to repay our outstanding Convertible Notes or any other indebtedness we may incur from time to time. We cannot assure you that our revenues will be sufficient to meet our operational needs and capital requirements in the future. In addition, we cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our future capital needs and other business reasons could require us to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. If a poll is not demanded at our shareholder meeting, voting will be by show of hands and shares will not be proportionately represented. Shareholder resolutions may be passed without the presence of the majority of our shareholders in person or by proxy. Voting at any of our shareholder meetings is by show of hands unless a poll is demanded. A poll may be demanded by the chairman of our board of directors or by any shareholder present in person or by proxy. If a poll is demanded, each shareholder present in person or by proxy will have one vote for each ordinary share registered in his name. If a poll is not demanded, voting will be by show of hands and each shareholder present in person or by proxy will have one vote regardless of the number of shares registered in his name. In the absence of a poll, shares will therefore not be proportionately represented. In addition, the quorum required for our shareholder meetings consists of shareholders who hold at least one-third of our ordinary shares being present at a meeting in person or by proxy. Therefore, subject to the requisite majorities, shareholder resolutions may be passed at our shareholder meetings without the presence of the majority of our shareholders in person or by proxy. Our earnings could be adversely affected if we recognize impairment losses on goodwill and other intangible assets relating to our previous acquisitions. As a result of our acquisitions, we have recognized goodwill and other intangible assets. Our intangible assets, other than goodwill, are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives, and are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an intangible asset may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment by us annually as of year end or more frequently if an event or a circumstance indicates that goodwill might be impaired. Examples of such events or circumstances include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal or business climate, an adverse regulatory action or unanticipated competition. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Critical Accounting Policies”. In the future, we could recognize impairment losses on goodwill and other intangible assets and that impairment could result in a charge to our reported results of operations. We may fail to achieve and maintain effective internal controls. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the United States securities laws. We are required by the SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to include a report of management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. 18 Table of Contents Our management may not conclude that our internal controls are effective in the future. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent public registered accounting firm may disagree. If our independent public registered accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which our controls are designed, operated, documented or reviewed, it then may issue an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Any of these possible outcomes could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Furthermore, we have expended, and anticipate that we will continue to expend, considerable costs, management time, and other resources, in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Risks Related to Our Industry New product development in the medical device and supply industry is both costly and labor-intensive and has a very low rate of successful commercialization. Our success will depend in part on our ability to enhance our existing products and technologies and to develop and acquire new products or technologies. The development process for medical technology is complex and uncertain, as well as time-consuming and costly. Product development requires the accurate assessment of technological and market trends as well as precise technological execution. We cannot assure you that: • our product or technology development will be successfully completed; • necessary regulatory clearances or approvals will be granted by the SFDA or other regulatory bodies for the commercialization and marketing of any new products or technologies as required on a timely basis or at all; or • any product or technology we develop can be commercialized or will achieve market acceptance. In particular, obtaining SFDA approval for new product registration can be time-consuming. In addition to applying for a production permit, SFDA product registration is required for our IVD products. The product registration entails, among other things, on-site manufacturing inspections, pre-clinical and clinical trials and technical evaluation. It has generally taken us 12 months or more to obtain SFDA approval for our products. Also, we may be unable to locate suitable products or technologies to acquire or acquire such products or technologies on commercially reasonable terms. Failure to develop, acquire, obtain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for the commercialization of new products and technologies, or successfully commercialize or market potential new products or technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. In order to manufacture and market our products, we are required to obtain various authorizations from governmental regulatory authorities in the PRC and other countries. If we fail to obtain clearances or approvals in a timely fashion, our business may be significantly affected. The sales and marketing of our medical device products are subject to regulation in the PRC and other countries where we plan to expand our product distribution. We are required to obtain registrations with the SFDA and the regulators administering the approval in countries where we plan to export. The process for obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals can be lengthy and expensive, and the results are unpredictable. In addition, the relevant regulatory authorities may introduce additional requirements or procedures that have the effect of delaying or prolonging the regulatory clearance or approval for our existing or new products. If we are unable to obtain clearances or approvals needed to market existing or new products, or obtain such clearances or approvals in a timely fashion, our business could be significantly disrupted, and sales and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents We need the SFDA approval for our semi-automated ECLIA analyzer, fully-automated ECLIA analyzer and SPR analyzer before they can be used by hospitals. The SFDA approvals we have obtained for our semi-automated ECLIA analyzer, fully-automated ECLIA analyzer and SPR analyzer will expire in July 2012, April 2014 and September 2013, respectively, and we will need to renew these approvals once they expire. We are also required to obtain a production permit from the provincial level food and drug administration before commencing the manufacture of our products. Our production permit for the manufacture of our ECLIA analyzer and reagent kits will expire in June 2015 and we will need to renew the production permit once it expires. Our production permit for the manufacture of our FISH probes, SPR analyzers and DNA chips will expire in January 2016, and we will need to renew the production permit once it expires. Renewing our registration certificates and production permit entails submission of various information and the review of that submission by the applicable regulatory authorities. We do not foresee any significant difficulties in obtaining such renewal. But if we fail to obtain such renewal in a timely fashion, our business may be adversely affected. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation”. In April 2007, the SFDA announced a new regulation that became effective on June 1, 2007. Reagent kits used for IVD testing are divided into three different categories, Class I, Class II and Class III, depending on the degree of risk associated with each reagent kit. Our ECLIA reagent kits, FISH probes and DNA chips are classified as Class III, and they therefore are subject to all regulatory controls governing the Class III category. We are required to obtain a registration certificate for each reagent kit prior to selling that reagent kit for clinical use. A reagent kit that is used for research purposes only, however, is exempted from registration and/or approval. A reagent kit intended for research use only must comply with the labeling requirements that present the statement: “For research use only. Not for use in diagnostic procedures” on the package. Of the 95 ECLIA reagent kits and 47 FISH probes that we sell, 76 ECLIA reagent kits and 22 FISH probes are covered by registration certificates. Of the 19 ECLIA reagent kits we currently sell without registration certificates, 11 are food safety reagent kits which are not subject to SFDA registration and the remaining 8 reagent kits are being sold for research use only. Of the 8 ECLIA reagent kits and 25 FISH probes we currently sell for research use only, we have submitted registration applications for most of them. The registration certificate for our HPV-DNA chip was granted to us in May 2010. We intend to apply for registration certificates for most of our ECLIA reagent kits, FISH probes and DNA chips, but we may not succeed in obtaining registration certificates for these ECLIA reagent kits, FISH probes and DNA chips or for any ECLIA reagent kit, FISH probe or DNA chip that we develop in the future. Before receiving the necessary registration certificate, these ECLIA reagent kits, FISH probes and DNA chips can be sold for research use only. Thus, this may delay or limit growth in sales of our ECLIA reagent kits, FISH probes and DNA chips. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation”. Competition in the markets in which we operate is expected to increase in the future. Our ECLIA system competes with IVD systems and reagent kits offered in the PRC market by many established international companies, including Abbott Diagnostics, Siemens Healthcare, Beckman Coulter, PerkinElmer, Johnson & Johnson and Roche Group. There are also a number of China-based manufacturers who also offer luminescence immunoassay systems. Our FISH probes compete with probes offered by Abbott Diagnostics. We are not aware of any China-based manufacturers who offer FISH probes in the PRC. Our SPR analyzers and HPV-DNA chips compete with HPV test products offered by Qiagen and certain China-based manufacturers. We are not aware of any China-based manufacturers who offer both SPR analyzers and HPV-DNA chips in the PRC. A number of our existing and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, research and development, sales and marketing, personnel resources and other resources than we do. Competition will intensify as other companies enter our markets. Competing companies may succeed in developing products that 20 Table of Contents are more effective or less costly than those that we may offer, and these companies may also be more successful in marketing their products. Competing companies may also introduce competitive pricing measures that adversely affect our sales levels and margins. If we do not adequately address our competitive challenges, we could lose sales and market share and fail to grow our business as planned, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and future growth. In addition, we believe that corrupt practices in the healthcare industry in the PRC still occur. In order to increase sales, certain manufacturers or distributors of medical devices may pay kickbacks to hospital personnel who make procurement decisions. We prohibit our employees from engaging in such practices and, to our knowledge, none of our distributors engages in such practices. However, as competition intensifies in the medical device and supplies industry in the PRC, we may lose sales, customers or contracts to competitors to the extent we or our distributors refuse to engage in such practices. The IVD industry is characterized by constant technological change, and if we fail to respond effectively to technological changes, we could lose our competitive advantage. The IVD industry in which we currently compete are characterized by: • changing technologies; • frequent new product introductions and enhancements; • changing customer needs; and • product obsolescence. To develop new products and designs, we must develop or acquire and use leading technologies in a cost-effective and timely manner and continue to expand our technical and design expertise. Failure to do so could cause us to lose our competitive position and may cause a material adverse effect on our revenues in the future. Our business may be affected by recent healthcare reform. On January 21, 2009, China launched its three-year healthcare reform initiative, initially pledging to provide up to RMB850 billion in healthcare reform projects throughout China. The healthcare reform act and future healthcare reforms could adversely affect our business in several ways, including: • Reduced demand for our products. Healthcare reforms may provide funding and incentives for specific products we do not provide. As a result, our existing customers may be incentivized by healthcare reform subsidies or tax incentives to defer purchases of our products in favor of those which are subsidized or have beneficial tax implications. • Changes in customer trends. Healthcare reform may additionally be targeted at consumers rather than hospitals, which could affect the spending patterns of our customers in ways we may not be able to anticipate. We are unable to predict the current and future affects of healthcare reform, which could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Risks Related to Doing Business in the PRC Adverse changes in political, economic and other policies of the Chinese government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of the PRC, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in the PRC, and all of our sales are made in the PRC. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in the PRC. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • the extent of government involvement; • the level of development; • the growth rate; • the control of foreign exchange; • the allocation of resources; • an evolving regulatory system; and • lack of sufficient transparency in the regulatory process. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in the PRC is still owned by the Chinese government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the Chinese government could materially and adversely affect our business. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the Chinese government to slow the pace of growth of the Chinese economy could result in decreased expenditure by hospitals, which in turn could reduce demand for our products. Moreover, the political relationship between the United States, Europe, or other Asian nations and the PRC is subject to sudden fluctuation and periodic tension. Changes in political conditions in the PRC and changes in the state of foreign relations are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations or cause our services to become less attractive. This could lead to a decline in our profitability. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in the PRC could have a material adverse effect on overall economic growth and the level of healthcare investments and expenditures in the PRC, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our businesses. 22 Table of Contents Future changes in laws, regulations or enforcement policies in the PRC could adversely affect our business. Laws, regulations or enforcement policies in the PRC, including those regulating medical devices and supplies, are evolving and subject to future change. For example, under a regulation enacted by the SFDA in September 2002 and was renewed in April 2007, reagent kits are required to be registered with the SFDA and are subject to regulatory controls. As of June 30, 2011, we have obtained SFDA registrations for 76 ECLIA reagent kits and 22 FISH probes we sell. We are in the process of obtaining the required registrations for most of the 8 ECLIA reagent kits and 25 FISH probes that are currently sold with research labels. The 11 food safety ECLIA reagent kits are not subject to SFDA registration. The registration certificate for our HPV-DNA chip was granted to us in May 2010. In 2007, the SFDA imposed certain quality control system assessment requirements for certain reagent products, covering our ECLIA reagent kits, FISH probes and HPV-DNA chips. We met such requirements for ECLIA reagent kits, FISH probes and HPV-DNA chips, respectively in February 2008, September 2009 and September 2009. Future changes in laws, regulations or administrative interpretations, or stricter enforcement policies by the Chinese government, could impose more stringent requirements on us, including fines or other penalties. Changes in applicable laws and regulations may also increase our operating costs. Compliance with such requirements could impose substantial additional costs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These changes may relax some requirements, which could be beneficial to our competitors or could lower market entry barriers and increase competition. Further, regulatory agencies in the PRC may periodically, and sometimes abruptly, change their enforcement practice. Therefore, prior enforcement activity, or lack of enforcement activity, is not necessarily predictive of future actions. Any enforcement actions against us could have a material and adverse effect on us and the market price of our ADSs. In addition, any litigation or governmental investigation or enforcement proceedings in the PRC may be protracted and may result in substantial cost and diversion of resources and management attention, negative publicity, damage to our reputation and decline in the price of our ADSs. We may not be able to cause our subsidiaries to distribute sufficient amount of dividends to us to satisfy our cash needs. We are a holding company and have historically relied on proceeds from equity and debt financings as well as dividends paid by our wholly-owned operating subsidiaries, for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, service any debt we may incur and pay our operating expenses. In the event equity and debt financings are not available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, we may need to cause our wholly-owned subsidiaries to pay dividends to us for our cash needs. The payment of dividends in the PRC is subject to limitations. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in the PRC. YDME Beijing, Beijing GP and BBE are also required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its general reserves until the reserves reach 50% of the subsidiaries’ own registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, if these three PRC operating subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Therefore, we may not be able to receive sufficient amount of dividends from our subsidiaries to satisfy our cash needs, and if such situation arises, we will not have the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service our debt or pay our operating expenses. See “—If we receive dividends from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC, such dividends may be subject to PRC withholding tax.” Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. We receive all of our revenues in Renminbi, which currently is not a freely convertible currency. A portion of our revenues may be converted into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations, including, among others, payment of dividends declared, if any, in respect of our ordinary shares. Under the PRC’s existing 23 Table of Contents foreign exchange regulations, YDME Beijing, Beijing GP and BBE are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not take future measures to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. All our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to obtain foreign exchange is subject to significant foreign exchange controls and, in the case of amounts under the capital account, requires the approval of and/or registration with the PRC government authorities, including the SAFE. In particular, if any of these subsidiaries borrow foreign currency loans from us or other foreign lenders, they must do so within approved limits that satisfy their approval documentation and PRC debt to equity ratio requirements. Further, such loans must be registered with the SAFE. If we finance any of these subsidiaries by means of additional capital contributions, the amount of these capital contributions must first be approved by the relevant government approval authority. These limitations could affect the ability of these subsidiaries to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC’s political and economic conditions. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, has historically been set by the People’s Bank of China. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a band against a basket of certain foreign currencies, determined by the People’s Bank of China, against which it can rise or fall by as much as 0.3% each day. On May 18, 2009, the PRC government further widened the daily trading band from 0.3% to 0.5%. On June 19, 2010, the People’s Bank of China decided to proceed further with reform of the exchange rate regime and to enhance the exchange rate flexibility. These changes in the policy resulted in a significant appreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar between July 21, 2005 and July 8, 2011. Since the adoption of this new policy, the value of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar has fluctuated on a daily basis within narrow ranges, but overall has further strengthened against the U.S. dollar. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to further liberalize its currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. However, it is uncertain what additional measures will be taken and what their impact could be on exchange rates in the future. As we import certain materials and supplies for ECLIA reagent kits, FISH probes and HPV-DNA chips from the United States and some European countries, fluctuations in the value of the Renminbi against the currencies of those countries may increase the cost of our ECLIA reagent kits, FISH probes and HPV-DNA chips. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we received from the offering of the 2016 Notes into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments or the financial incentives currently available to us in the PRC could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. On March 16, 2007, the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, was enacted, and, along with its implementing regulations, became effective on January 1, 2008. The EIT Law adopts a uniform tax rate of 25% for all enterprises (including foreign-invested enterprises) and eliminates most of the tax exemptions, reductions and preferential treatments available under the previous tax laws and regulations. Under the EIT Law, enterprises that were established and already enjoyed preferential tax treatments before March 16, 2007 (i) in the case of preferential tax rates, continue to enjoy the tax rates which will be gradually increased to the new tax rates within 24 Table of Contents five years from January 1, 2008 or (ii) in the case of preferential tax exemption or reduction for a specified term, continue to enjoy the preferential tax holiday until the expiration of such term. Specifically, an enterprise that was enjoying tax holidays on January 1, 2008 will continue to enjoy its existing tax holidays, unless such tax holidays did not yet start on January 1, 2008 due to the loss position of the enterprise, in which case such tax holidays commenced on January 1, 2008. In accordance with a notice issued by the State Council in December 2007 on the implementation of transitional preferential tax treatments, or the Transition Implementation Notice, enterprises that were subject to income tax at the rate of 15% prior to 2008 are subject to income tax at the rates of 18%, 20%, 22%, 24% and 25% in the years of 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. The EIT Law, however, introduces new tax incentives, subject to various qualification criteria. The EIT Law and its implementing rules permit qualified “high and new technology enterprises” to enjoy a reduced 15% EIT rate. The recently published qualification criteria are significantly higher than those prescribed by the old tax rules under which we had been granted preferential treatment. YDME Beijing and BBE obtained the qualification certificates of “high and new technology enterprises” in 2008 with a validity period of three years starting from 2008 to 2010. YDME Beijing and BBE will need to apply for a three-year extension upon the expiration of the current qualification certificates if they want to continue to enjoy the 15% reduced rate from 2011 to 2013. In addition, the continuing qualification of YDME Beijing and BBE as “high and new technology enterprises” for the calendar year of 2011 will be subject to annual evaluation by the relevant government authorities in the PRC. We cannot assure you that YDME Beijing and BBE will continue to qualify as “high and new technology enterprises” under the EIT Law, or that the local tax authorities will not, in the future, change their position and revoke any of our past preferential tax treatments. The discontinuation of any preferential tax treatments could materially increase our tax obligations. Beijing GP was previously entitled to an EIT rate of 15% and was entitled to an exemption from EIT from January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2009 and a 50% income tax reduction from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2012. While Beijing GP will be able to enjoy the tax holiday under the EIT Law and the Transition Implementation Notice, its 50% income tax reduction from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2012 will be partially eliminated. Under the EIT Law and the Transition Implementation Notice, Beijing GP’s EIT rates are 0%, 0%, 11%, 12% and 12.5% for the calendar years from 2008 to 2012. Any increase in the EIT rate applicable to us or discontinuation or reduction of any of the preferential tax treatments or financial incentives currently enjoyed by our PRC subsidiaries could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If we receive dividends from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC, such dividends may be subject to PRC withholding tax. The EIT Law imposes a withholding tax of 10% on dividends distributed by a foreign-invested enterprise to its immediate holding company outside of the PRC if such immediate holding company is considered as a “non-resident enterprise” without any establishment or place within the PRC or if the received dividends have no connection with the establishment or place of such immediate holding company within the PRC, unless such immediate holding company’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with the PRC that provides for a different withholding arrangement. The Cayman Islands, where we are incorporated, does not have such tax treaty with the PRC. According to the Arrangement Between Mainland China and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion, dividends paid by a foreign-invested enterprise in the PRC to its direct holding company in Hong Kong will be subject to withholding tax at a rate of no more than 5% (if the foreign investor owns directly at least 25% of the shares of the foreign-invested enterprise). The equity interests in all of our subsidiaries in the PRC are invested and held by Hong Kong registered entities. Thus, dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries in the PRC may be subject to the 5% withholding tax if such Hong Kong registered entities are each considered as a “non-resident enterprise” under the EIT Law. 25 Table of Contents Nevertheless, the PRC State Administration of Taxation promulgated a tax notice on October 27, 2009, or Circular 601, which provides that tax treaty benefits will be denied to “conduit” or shell companies without business substance, and a beneficial ownership analysis will be used based on a “substance-over-form” principle to determine whether or not to grant tax treaty benefits. It is unclear at this stage whether Circular 601 applies to dividends from our PRC subsidiaries paid to us through our Hong Kong subsidiaries. It is possible, however, that under Circular 601 our Hong Kong subsidiaries would not be considered to be the beneficial owners of any such dividends, and that such dividends would as a result be subject to income tax withholding at the rate of 10% rather than the favorable 5% rate applicable under the tax treaty between mainland China and Hong Kong. We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the PRC enterprise income tax law and be subject to PRC taxation on our worldwide income. The PRC EIT Law sets a uniform tax rate of 25% for all enterprises (including foreign-invested enterprises) and revokes the tax exemptions, reductions, and preferential treatments applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. Under the EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC may be considered a PRC resident enterprise and will normally be subject to enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% of its global income. On December 6, 2007, the Implementation Rules for the EIT Law were promulgated by the PRC State Council and became effective on January 1, 2008. The Implementation Rules for the EIT Law provide that the term “de facto management bodies” refers to management bodies with material management and control in all aspects over, without limitation, the production, operation, personnel, finance and assets of the enterprise. In April 2009, the PRC State Administration of Taxation promulgated a circular to clarify the definition of “de facto management bodies” for enterprises incorporated overseas with controlling shareholders being PRC enterprises. However, there have been no official implementation rules regarding the determination of “de facto management bodies” for enterprises that are not controlled by PRC enterprises, such as companies like us. We hold our shareholders’ meetings and board meetings outside the PRC, we keep our shareholders’ list outside the PRC, and most financing decisions are made outside the PRC. However, most of our directors and senior management are currently based inside the PRC and we keep our books and accounts inside the PRC. The above elements may be relevant for the tax authorities to determine whether we are a PRC resident enterprise for tax purposes. However, there is no clear standard published by the tax authorities for making such determination. Although it is unclear under the PRC tax law whether we have a “de facto management body” located in the PRC for PRC tax purposes, our Company takes the position that we are not a PRC resident enterprise for tax purposes. However, there can be no assurance that the tax authorities will agree with our position. If our Company is deemed a PRC resident enterprise for tax purposes, we would be subject to the PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on our global income, which could have an impact on our effective tax rate and an adverse effect on our net income and results of operations, although dividends distributed from our PRC subsidiaries to us could be exempt from PRC dividend withholding tax, since such income is exempted under the PRC EIT Law when paid to a PRC resident. Interest and dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and gain on the sale of our Convertible Notes, ADSs and ordinary shares may become subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the EIT Law and implementation regulations issued by the State Council, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to interest and dividends payable by resident enterprises to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such interest and dividends have their sources within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of the notes, ADSs or ordinary shares issued by resident enterprises to such investors is also subject to 10% PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. 26 Table of Contents Therefore, if we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” and interest we pay with respect to our Convertible Notes and dividends we pay with respect to ADSs or ordinary shares, gain realized from the transfer of our Convertible Notes, ADSs or ordinary shares are considered as income derived from sources within the PRC, such income may be subject to PRC tax. If we are required under the EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on interest or dividends payable to our non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” our ability to make payments on our Convertible Notes may be affected. In addition, if such non-PRC investors are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our Convertible Notes, ADSs or ordinary shares, the value of an investment in our Convertible Notes, ADSs or ordinary shares may be materially and adversely affected. We may need to pay additional tax in connection with the gain on sale of the HIFU business in December 2008, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. The PRC State Administration of Taxation promulgated a tax notice on December 10, 2009, or Circular 698, which provides the administration and tax reporting guidance for any gains generated from indirect offshore transfers of equity interests in PRC enterprises that are not taxable overseas. It is unclear at this stage whether Circular 698 applies to the gain on sale of our HIFU business in December 2008. It is possible, however, that under Circular 698, we will need to pay additional tax in connection with the gain on sale of our HIFU business generated from indirect offshore transfers of equity interests in PRC enterprises that are not taxable overseas. Any additional tax that we may need to pay in the future will negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds of our equity or debt offerings to make loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. In utilizing the proceeds of any equity or debt offerings, as an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiaries, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to PRC regulations and approvals. For example, loans by us to our wholly owned subsidiaries in the PRC, each of which is a foreign-invested enterprise, to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the SAFE or its local counterpart. We may also decide to finance our wholly owned subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce in the PRC or its local counterpart. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans or capital contributions by us to our PRC subsidiaries or any of their respective subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to use the proceeds of any equity or debt offerings and to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. We may incur substantial increases in labor cost due to the promulgation of the new labor contract law. In June 2007, the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress enacted the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. Compared to the Labor Law, the Labor Contract Law establishes more restrictions and increases the cost to employers upon termination of employees, including specific provisions related to fixed-term employment contracts, temporary employment, probation, consultation with the labor union and employee general assembly, employment without a contract, dismissal of employees, compensation upon termination and overtime work, and collective bargaining. According to the Labor Contract Law, an employer is obligated to sign an unlimited term labor contract with an employee if the employer continues to employ the employee after two consecutive fixed term labor contracts. The employer also has to pay compensation to employees if the employer terminates an unlimited term labor contract. Unless an employee 27 Table of Contents refuses to extend an expired labor contract, compensation is also required when the labor contract expires and the employer does not extend the labor contract with the employee under the same terms or better terms than those in the original contract. Further, under the Regulations on Paid Annual Leave for Employees, which became effective on January 1, 2008, employees who have served more than one year with an employer are entitled to a paid vacation ranging from five to 15 days, depending on their length of service. Employees who waive such vacation time at the request of employers shall be compensated at three times their normal salaries for each waived vacation day. As a result of these new protective labor measures, our labor costs may increase. We cannot give assurance that any disputes, work stoppages or strikes will not arise in the future. We could be subject to labor disruptions that interfere with our operations and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be subject to labor disputes and adverse employee relations which could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A portion of our employees is represented by labor unions, and it is possible that such employees, and our other employees, could attempt to take collective action against us if they are unhappy with their employment conditions. Existing employment agreements with our employees and labor union agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage in the future. There can be no assurance that we will not experience labor disputes and/or adverse employee relations in the future. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks of contagious diseases, including swine flu, avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of swine flu, avian flu, SARS or another epidemic or outbreak. During April and May 2009, there have been outbreaks of highly pathogenic swine flu, caused by the H1N1A virus, in certain regions of the world, including parts of Asia. In 2007 and early 2008, there were reports of outbreaks of a highly pathogenic avian flu, caused by the H5N1 virus, in certain regions of Asia and Europe. In 2005 and 2006, there were reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of the PRC, including a few confirmed human cases. An outbreak of avian flu in the human population could result in a widespread health crisis that could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, particularly in Asia. Additionally, any recurrence of SARS, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia, similar to the occurrence in 2003 which affected the PRC, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Vietnam and certain other countries, would also have similar adverse effects. These outbreaks of contagious diseases, and other adverse public health developments in the PRC, would have a material adverse effect on our business operations. These could include restrictions on our ability to travel or to ship our products within the PRC, as well as cause temporary closure of our manufacturing facilities. Such closures or travel or shipment restrictions would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of swine flu, avian flu, SARS or any other epidemic. Our operations are subject to the uncertainty associated with the legal system in the PRC, which could adversely affect our business, or limit the legal protection available to us or to existing or potential investors. We conduct our business through our operating subsidiaries in the PRC, which are governed by the PRC law. The PRC is a civil law jurisdiction based on written codes and statutes. Unlike common law jurisdictions, prior court decisions may be cited as persuasive authority but do not have legally binding force. The PRC government has promulgated laws and regulations in relation to economic matters in general, such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade, with a view to establishing a comprehensive legal system conducive to investment activities. However, the implementation, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations may involve greater uncertainty compared to those in the common law jurisdictions due to a relatively short legislative history, limited volume of court cases and their non-binding 28 Table of Contents nature. Furthermore, many laws, regulations and legal requirements have only recently been adopted by the central or local government agencies, and their implementation, interpretation and enforcement may involve uncertainty due to the lack of established practice available for reference. The PRC administrative and court authorities also have significant discretion in interpreting and enforcing statutory and contractual terms. It thus may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection available than in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may also impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into with our business partners, customers and suppliers. Vis-à-vis our competitors, depending on the government agency or how an application or a case is presented to such agency or other variables, we may receive less favorable application of law. In addition, any litigation or legal proceeding in the PRC may be protracted and result in substantial legal costs and diversion of resources and management attention. We cannot predict the effect of future legal developments in the PRC, including promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, the preemption of local regulations by national law, the overturn or modification of the lower-level authority’s decisions at the higher level, or the changes in judiciary and administrative practices. As a result, there is substantial uncertainty as to the legal protection available to us or to our shareholders. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares and Our ADSs Activities in connection with hedging transactions may affect the market price of our ADSs. Activities by investors in our Convertible Notes and others in connection with hedging transactions may affect the market price of our ADSs from time to time. For example, in connection with the settlement of a hedging transaction, the underwriters for offerings of our securities or their affiliates may purchase ADSs and investors in our Convertible Notes may sell ADSs, which could temporarily increase or decrease (or delay an increase or decrease in) the market price of our ADSs. In addition, investors in our Convertible Notes may wish to purchase or sell Convertible Notes or adjust any hedging transactions from time to time, such that the short position created through the concurrent offering of the purchased ADSs may be larger or smaller than needed. As a result, hedge adjustments may result in the buying or selling of ADSs by investors, affiliates of the underwriters or others, which may affect the market price of our ADSs. Because any ADSs which we repurchase and remain outstanding and ADSs which are subject to our forward purchase contract and ADS issuance and repurchase contract entered in connection with the 2011 Notes and 2013 Notes, respectively, may be considered outstanding for the purpose of computing and reporting our earnings per ADS, such ADSs could decrease our earnings per ADS and potentially the market price of our ADSs. While the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs which we repurchase and remain outstanding and ADSs which are subject to our forward purchase contract and ADS issuance and repurchase contract entered in connection with the 2011 Notes and 2013 Notes, respectively, will be considered issued and outstanding for purposes of Cayman Islands Companies Law, we believe that under U.S. GAAP currently in effect, such ADSs will not be considered outstanding for the purpose of computing earnings per ADS. In particular, ADSs subject to our forward purchase contract and ADS issuance and repurchase contract are not considered outstanding because those agreements provide that upon conversion, repurchase or payment at maturity of all of the Convertible Notes, the counterparties in those agreements are obligated to deliver to us all remaining ADSs held by them. If these accounting principles, or our interpretation thereof, were to change in the future, we may become required to treat such ADSs as outstanding for purposes of computing and reporting our earnings per ADS, our earnings per ADS would be reduced and the market price of our ADSs could decrease, possibly significantly. The market price for our ADSs may be volatile. The market price for our ADSs has been, and may continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations. Since August 10, 2005, the intraday sales prices of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Select Market (then called “the 29 Table of Contents Nasdaq National Market”) have ranged from US$7.11 to US$57.50 per ADS, and the closing sale price on July 15, 2011 was US$7.62 per ADS. The price of our ADSs may fluctuate in response to factors including the following: • announcements of technological or competitive developments; • announcements regarding patent litigation or the issuance of patents to us or our competitors; • governmental developments in China, such as changes in fiscal policies, tax policies or developments relating to the regulatory or health care reimbursement environment, affecting us or our competitors; • announcements of studies and reports relating to the effectiveness or safety of our products or those of our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and changes or revisions of our expected results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other medical technology companies; • addition or departure of our senior management and key research and development personnel; • any litigation, governmental investigation or enforcement proceedings brought against us by authorities and industry regulators in the PRC or elsewhere; • release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; and • sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs, or the perception that such sales might occur. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs will be subject to the risk of volatility and depressed prices of our ADSs. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. In addition, any sales in the public market of ADSs issued upon conversion of the Convertible Notes could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our ADSs. Future sales of our ordinary shares or ADSs in the public market or the issuance of securities senior to our ordinary shares could adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs and our ability to raise funds in new share offerings. Future sales of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares or ADSs or other equity-related securities in the public market, including sales by any existing shareholders, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our ADSs and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of our ordinary shares or ADSs or the availability of our ordinary shares or ADSs for future sale, will have on the trading price of our ADSs. Holders of ADSs will have fewer rights than holders of ordinary shares and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. As a holder of our ADSs, you will not have the same rights as holders of our ordinary shares, and you may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under the deposit agreement, if the vote is by show of hands, the depositary will vote the 30 Table of Contents deposited securities in accordance with the voting instructions received from a majority of holders of ADSs that provided timely voting instructions. If the vote is by poll, the depositary will vote the deposited securities in accordance with the voting instructions it timely receives from ADS holders. In the event of poll voting, deposited securities for which no instructions are received will not be voted. Under our articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting is seven days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholder meeting. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Although your ADSs will be transferable on the books of the depositary, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. You may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property, in which event you would not receive such distribution. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to holders of our ADSs in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not make rights available to holders of our ADSs unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings of ADSs. 31 Table of Contents Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our articles of association contain provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our Company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our holders of our ordinary shares and holders of our ADSs of an opportunity to sell their ordinary shares and ADSs, as applicable, at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our Company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADS or otherwise. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our Company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be adversely affected. We are a Cayman Islands company, and because the rights of shareholders under Cayman Islands law differ from those under United States law, you may have difficulty protecting your shareholder rights. We are an exempted company with limited liability incorporated under Cayman Islands law, and substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. In addition, a majority of our directors and executive officers reside outside the United States, and a substantial portion of their assets is located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon our directors or executive officers, or enforce judgments obtained in the United States courts against our directors or executive officers. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors and us, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States and some states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. In addition, shareholders in Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States and will have no general right under Cayman Islands law to inspect or obtain copies of our list of shareholders or our corporate records. Walkers, our counsel as to Cayman Islands Law, have advised that there is no statutory mechanism by which a judgment obtained in the United States courts can be recognized or enforced in the Cayman Islands. At common law, a foreign judgment which is in personam (a judgment against a person or other legal entity such as a company) may be recognized if: • the judgment debtor was, at the time the foreign proceedings were instituted, present in the foreign country (which could be presence through an agent or representative office); • the judgment debtor was plaintiff, or counter-claimed, in the proceedings in the foreign country; • the judgment debtor, being a defendant in the foreign court, voluntarily submitted to the jurisdiction of that court by participating in the foreign proceedings; or 32 Table of Contents • if the judgment debtor had, before the commencement of the foreign proceedings agreed, in respect of the subject matter of the proceedings, to submit to the jurisdiction of that court or the courts of that country. The Cayman Islands court must also be satisfied that: the judgment is for a fixed sum; the judgment was not obtained by fraud; the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained were not contrary to natural justice and the judgment is final and conclusive on the merits. The usual procedure for enforcement of a foreign judgment is to commence proceedings on the judgment as a common law debt. Walkers has further advised us that the courts of the Cayman Islands would not entertain original actions brought in the Cayman Islands against us or our directors or officers which only relate to the securities laws of the United States or any state in the United States. An original action brought in the Cayman Islands must give rise to a cause of action in the Cayman Islands (whether pursuant to Cayman Islands statutes or the common law). There is uncertainty regarding whether Cayman Islands courts would: • recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of United States securities laws; and • impose liability against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of United States securities laws. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction of a fixed sum that is not contrary to natural justice or the public policy of the Cayman Islands without retrial on the merit. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests with respect to actions taken by our management, directors or major shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a United States company. We may be or become a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. We do not believe that we are currently a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC and we do not expect to become a PFIC in any future year. However, because the PFIC determination is highly fact intensive and made at the end of each taxable year, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for the current or any future taxable year or that the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) will not challenge our determination concerning our PFIC status. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and depends on the composition of our income and assets, including goodwill, from time to time. If we are treated as a PFIC for any year, U.S. Holders (as defined in “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation”) may be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. For example, U.S. Holders who own our ADSs or ordinary shares during any taxable year in which we are a PFIC generally are subject to increased U.S. tax liabilities and reporting requirements for that taxable year and all succeeding years, regardless of whether we actually continue to be a PFIC, although a shareholder election to terminate such deemed PFIC status may be available in certain circumstances. Under recently enacted U.S. legislation effective as of March 18, 2010 and subject to future guidance, if we are a PFIC, U.S. Holders will be required to file an annual information return with the IRS relating to their ownership of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Pursuant to recent IRS guidance, this reporting requirement has been 33 Table of Contents suspended until the IRS releases a revised version of IRS Form 8621. Additional guidance is expected regarding the specific information that will be required to be reported on the revised IRS Form 8621. Prior to filing their annual income tax returns, U.S. Holders should consult their tax advisers regarding whether we are a PFIC and, if so, whether additional guidance has been issued with respect to this reporting requirement and how to comply with any such guidance. For further discussion of the adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences of our possible classification as a PFIC, see “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation.” 