Item 1A. Risk Factors. Stockholders and potential investors should carefully consider the risks described below relating to investment in our Common Stock. Our most significant risks and uncertainties are described below, however, they are not the only risks we face. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially adversely affected, the trading price of our Common Stock could decline and a stockholder could lose all or part of his or her investment. Risks Related to Our Business It is expected that PharmAthene will incur net losses and negative cash flow for the foreseeable future and we cannot guarantee that we will achieve profitability and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. PharmAthene has incurred significant losses since we commenced operations. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, the Company incurred an operating loss of approximately $16.5 million and had an accumulated deficit of approximately $87.4 million at December 31, 2007. The Company's losses to date have resulted principally from research and development costs related to the development of its product candidates and general and administrative costs related to its operations. As a result of our continuing losses and the contemplated acquisition of Avecia's vaccines business, we may need to seek additional financing. Our available cash at December 31, 2007 was approximately $40 million. However, we have debt to noteholders of approximately $12.7 million, we have approximately $10.0 million outstanding under our credit facility and, in connection with the acquisition of Avecia's vaccines business, we have agreed to pay $10 million to Avecia upon the closing of the acquisition and an additional $10 million upon the earlier of the first anniversary of the closing of the acquisition and the consummation of a financing transaction in which we receive gross proceeds of not less than $15 million. Accordingly, to the extent that our losses continue at the current level, if we do not access additional funding through contracts with the US government, we may need to seek additional financing as soon as twelve months from the date of the closing of the Avecia acquisition. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in obtaining sufficient financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We expect that PharmAthene will incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future as a result of increases in its research and development costs, including costs associated with conducting preclinical testing, clinical trials and regulatory compliance activities. The Company's likelihood for achieving profitability will depend on numerous factors, including success in: •developing and testing new product candidates; •carrying out the Company's intellectual property strategy; •establishing the Company's competitive position; •pursuing third-party collaborations; •acquiring or in-licensing products; •receiving regulatory approvals; 15 •manufacturing and marketing products; and •continuing to receive government funding and identifying new government funding opportunities. Many of these factors will depend on circumstances beyond our control. We cannot guarantee that we will achieve sufficient revenues for profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we cannot guarantee that we can sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If revenues grow slower than we anticipate, or if operating expenses exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly, then our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will be materially and adversely affected. Because our strategy might include acquisitions of other businesses, acquisition expenses and any cash used to make these acquisitions will reduce our available cash. PharmAthene is in various stages of product development and there can be no assurance of successful commercialization. PharmAthene has not commercialized any products or recognized any revenues from product sales. In general, our research and development programs are at early stages. To obtain FDA approval for our biological warfare defense products under current FDA regulations, the Company will be required to perform two animal model studies for efficacy and provide animal and human safety data. The Company's other products will be subject to the relevant approval guidelines under FDA requirements which include a number of phases of testing in humans. Even if PharmAthene initially receives positive pre-clinical or clinical results, such results may not be indicative of similar results that could be anticipated in the later stages of drug development, such as additional pre-clinical testing or human clinical trials. Other drug candidates developed by PharmAthene will require significant additional research and development efforts, including extensive pre-clinical and clinical testing and regulatory approval, prior to commercial sale. We cannot be sure that our approach to drug discovery will be effective or will result in the development of any drug. In addition, applicable laws, regulations, and policies may change, and our products may be subject to new legislation or regulations that may delay or suspend research and development. PharmAthene does not expect that any drugs resulting from our research and development efforts will be commercially available for several years, if at all. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing our product candidates, the Company may never generate sufficient or sustainable revenues to enable us to be profitable. Furthermore, even if our product candidates are successful when tested in animals, such success would not be a guarantee of the effectiveness and safety of such product candidates in humans. There can be no assurances that one or more of the Company's future product candidates would not fail to meet safety standards in human testing, even if those product candidates were found to be effective in animal studies. There can be no assurances that any such product candidates will prove to be effective in humans. Most of PharmAthene's immediately foreseeable future revenues are contingent upon grants and contracts from the US government and collaborative and license agreements and the Company may not achieve sufficient revenues from these agreements to attain profitability. Until and unless PharmAthene successfully markets a product, our ability to generate revenues will largely depend on our ability to enter into additional collaborative agreements, strategic alliances, research grants, contracts and license agreements with third parties, including, without limitation, the US government and branches and agencies thereof, and maintain the agreements we currently have in place. Substantially all of the revenues of the Company for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, were derived from grants and government contracts. The Company has an agreement with Medarex, Inc., to develop Valortim™, its fully human monoclonal antibody product designed to protect against and treat inhalation anthrax. Under the agreement with Medarex, the Company will be entitled to a variable percentage of profits derived from sales of Valortim™, depending, in part, on the amount of its investment. In addition, the Company has entered into licensing and research and development agreements with a number of other parties and collaborators. PharmAthene may need additional capital in the future. If additional capital is not available or not available on acceptable terms, the Company may be forced to delay or curtail the development of our product candidates. PharmAthene's requirements for additional capital may be substantial and will depend on many other factors, including: •continued funding by the DoD and other branches and agencies of the US government; •payments received under present or future collaborative partner agreements; •continued progress of research and development of the Company's products; •the Company's ability to license compounds or products from others; •costs associated with protecting the Company's intellectual property rights; 16 •development of marketing and sales capabilities; and •market acceptance of the Company's products. To the extent PharmAthene's capital resources are insufficient to meet future capital requirements, it will have to raise additional funds to continue the development of our product candidates. We cannot assure you that financing will be available on favorable terms, if at all. To the extent the Company raises additional capital through the sale of securities, the issuance of those securities could result in dilution which may be substantial to the Company's stockholders. In addition, if the Company incurs additional debt financing, a substantial portion of our operating cash flow may be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness, thus limiting funds available for the Company's business activities. If adequate funds are not available, the Company may be required to curtail significantly our development and commercialization activities. Biodefense treatment and drug development is an expensive and uncertain process, and delay or failure can occur at any stage of PharmAthene's development process. To develop and commercialize biodefense treatment and drug candidates, the Company must provide the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities with clinical data that demonstrates adequate safety. This involves engaging in clinical trials, which is a lengthy and expensive process, the outcome of which is uncertain. Because humans are not normally exposed to anthrax, nerve agents, smallpox or to other lethal biotoxins or chemical agents, statistically significant effectiveness of the Company's biodefense product candidates cannot be demonstrated in humans, but instead must be demonstrated, in part, by utilizing animal models before they can be approved for commercial sale. This effect has to be demonstrated in more than one animal species expected to be predictive of a response in humans, but an effect in a single animal species may be acceptable if that animal model is sufficiently well-characterized for predicting a response in humans. The animal study endpoint must be clearly related to the desired benefit in humans and the information obtained from animal studies allows selection of an effective dose in humans. For many of the biological threats, the animal models are not available and the Company may have to develop the animal models, a time-consuming research effort. Further, we may not be able to sufficiently demonstrate the animal correlation to the satisfaction of the FDA, as these correlates are difficult to establish and are often unclear. FDA may decide that our data are insufficient for approval and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies, refuse to approve our products, or place restrictions on our ability to commercialize those products. Delays in obtaining results can occur for a variety of reasons such as slower than anticipated enrollment by volunteers in the trials, adverse events related to the products and unsatisfactory results of any trial. Any delay or adverse clinical event arising during any of our clinical trials could force the Company to abandon a product altogether or to conduct additional clinical trials in order to obtain approval from the FDA and other regulatory bodies. The Company's development costs will increase substantially if it experiences material delays in any clinical trials or if it needs to conduct more or larger trials than planned. Additionally, few facilities in the US have the capability of testing animals with anthrax or nerve agent exposure. PharmAthene may not be able to secure clinical contracts to conduct the testing in a predictable timeframe or at all. Further, if delays are significant, or if any of the Company's products do not prove to be safe, pure, and potent (including efficacy) or do not receive required regulatory approvals, and the Company will be unable to recognize revenues from the sale of products, the commercial prospects for our product candidates will be adversely affected. Even if the Company completes the development of our nerve agent and anthrax products, if the Company fails to obtain contracts to supply products to the US government or the US government does not purchase sufficient quantities of our products, PharmAthene may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to continue operations. The US government has undertaken commitments to help secure improved countermeasures against bioterrorism including the stockpiling of treatments and vaccines for anthrax through a program known as the SNS. However, the process of obtaining government contracts is lengthy and uncertain and the Company will have to compete with other companies for each contract. There can be no assurances that the Company will be awarded any contracts to supply the US government with our products as such awards may be made, in whole or in part, to the Company's competitors. If the US government makes significant future contract awards for the supply of our emergency stockpile to PharmAthene's competitors, the Company's business will be harmed and it is unlikely that the Company will ultimately be able to commercialize that particular treatment or product. Further, changes in government budgets and agendas may result in a decreased and de-prioritized emphasis on procuring the biodefense products PharmAthene will develop. In addition, government contracts typically contain provisions that permit cancellation in the event that funds become unavailable to the governmental agency. If the US government makes significant future contract awards to the Company's competitors at the exclusion of the Company or otherwise fails to purchase the Company's products, it is unlikely that the Company will ultimately be able to commercialize that particular treatment or product or that it will be able to generate sufficient revenues to continue operations. 17 US government agencies have special contracting requirements which give them the ability to unilaterally control our contracts. PharmAthene anticipates that our primary sales will be to the US government. US government contracts typically contain unfavorable termination provisions and are subject to audit and modification by the government at its sole discretion, which will subject the Company to additional risks. These risks include the ability of the US government to unilaterally: •suspend or prevent the Company for a set period of time from receiving new contracts or extending existing contracts based on violations or suspected violations of laws or regulations; •terminate PharmAthene's contracts; •reduce the scope and value of PharmAthene's contracts; •audit and object to the Company's contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs; •control and potentially prohibit the export of the Company's products; and •change certain terms and conditions in the Company's contracts. The US government will be able to terminate any of its contracts with the Company either for its convenience or if the Company defaults by failing to perform in accordance with the contract schedule and terms. Termination for convenience provisions would generally enable the Company to recover only the Company's costs incurred or committed, and settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. Termination for default provisions do not permit these recoveries and would make the Company liable for excess costs incurred by the US government in procuring undelivered items from another source. PharmAthene may fail to fully realize the potential of Valortim™ and of our co-development arrangement with our partner in the development of Valortim™ which would have an adverse affect upon our business. PharmAthene and our development partner have completed the first Phase I clinical trial for Valortim™ without any reported adverse reactions. However, before we may begin selling any doses of Valortim™, we will need to conduct a more comprehensive Phase I trial in a significantly larger group of subjects. The Company will be required to expend a significant amount to scale up manufacturing capability through a contract manufacturer in order to conduct the more extensive Phase I clinical trial and the Company expects to commence this trial during 2008. If the Company's contract manufacturer is unable to produce sufficient quantities at a reasonable cost, or has any other obstacles to production, such as violative manufacturing then the Company will be unable to commence the necessary clinical trials necessary to begin marketing Valortim™. Even after the Company expends sufficient funds to complete the development of Valortim™ and when and if it enters into an agreement to market Valortim™ to the US government, it will be required to share any and all profits from the sale of products with our partner in accordance with a pre-determined formula. If PharmAthene cannot enter into new licensing arrangements, our ability to develop a diverse product portfolio could be limited and our ability to compete would be harmed. A component of the Company's business strategy will be in-licensing compounds and products developed by other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies or academic research laboratories that may be marketed and developed or improved upon using the Company's novel technologies. Competition for promising compounds or products can be intense. If the Company is not able to identify new licensing opportunities or enter into other licensing arrangements on acceptable terms, it may be unable to develop a diverse portfolio of products. PharmAthene will face competition from several companies with greater financial, personnel and research and development resources. Our commercial opportunities may be reduced or eliminated if our competitors are more successful in the development and marketing of their products. The biopharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological change. The Company's success will depend on our ability to develop and apply our technologies in the design and development of our product candidates and to establish and maintain a market for our product candidates. There also are many companies, both public and private, including major pharmaceutical and chemical companies, specialized biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions engaged in developing pharmaceutical and biotechnology products. Many of these companies have substantially greater financial, technical, research and development, and human resources than those of the Company. Competitors may develop products or other technologies that are more effective than any that are being developed by the Company or may obtain FDA approval for products more rapidly. If the Company commences commercial sales of products, we still must compete in the manufacturing and marketing of such products, areas in which we have limited experience. Many of these companies also have manufacturing facilities and established marketing 18 capabilities that would enable such companies to market competing products through existing channels of distribution. The Company's commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products for any of the harmful effects that it targets that: •are more effective; •have fewer or less severe adverse side effects; •are more adaptable to various modes of dosing; •obtain orphan drug exclusivity that blocks the approval of our application for seven years; •are easier to administer; or •are less expensive than the products or product candidates the Company will be developing. Further, the regulatory climate for generic versions of biological products approved under a BLA in the U.S. remains uncertain. Currently, there is no formalized mechanism by which the FDA can approve a generic version of an approved biological product. Federal legislation has been introduced to establish a legal pathway for the approval of generic versions of approved biological products. If enacted, the legislation will impact the revenue projections for our products. Even if the Company is successful in developing effective products, and obtains FDA and other regulatory approvals necessary for commercializing them, our products may not compete effectively with other successful products. Our competitors may succeed in developing and marketing products either that are more effective than those that PharmAthene may develop, alone or with our collaborators, making our products obsolete, or that are marketed before any products that the Company develops are marketed. Companies that are developing products that would compete with the Company's products include: VaxGen, Inc., which is developing vaccines against anthrax and smallpox; Avant Immunotherapeutics, Inc., which has vaccine programs for agents of biological warfare, including plague and anthrax; Human Genome Sciences, Inc., Elusys Therapeutics, Inc. and Avanir Pharmaceuticals, Inc., all of which are developing monoclonal antibodies as anthrax treatments. Other competitors of the Company include: Emergent Biosolutions Inc., BioSante Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Dynport Vaccine Company, LLC and Ligocyte Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Political or social factors may delay or impair PharmAthene's ability to market our products and our business may be materially adversely affected. Products developed to treat diseases caused by, or to combat the threat of, bioterrorism will be subject to changing political and social environments. The political and social responses to bioterrorism have been unpredictable. Political or social pressures may delay or cause resistance to bringing the Company's products to market or limit pricing of our products, which would harm the Company's business. The US government's determination to award any contracts to the Company may be challenged by an interested party, such as another bidder, at the General Accounting Office or in federal court. If such a challenge is successful, a contract may be terminated. The laws and regulations governing the procurement of goods and services by the US government provide procedures by which other bidders and other interested parties may challenge the award of a government contract. In the event that the Company is awarded a government contract, such protests could be filed even if there are not any valid legal grounds on which to base the protest. If any such protests are filed, the government agency may decide to suspend the Company's performance under the contract while such protests are being considered by the General Accounting Office or the applicable federal court, thus potentially delaying delivery of goods and services and payment. In addition, the Company could be forced to expend considerable funds to defend any potential award. If a protest is successful, the government may be ordered to terminate the Company's contract at our convenience and reselect bids. The government could even be directed to award a potential contract to one of the other bidders. Legal and Regulatory Risks of Development Stage Biotechnology Companies PharmAthene's commercial success will be affected significantly by our ability to obtain protection for our proprietary technology and that of our licensors and collaborators and not infringe the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. The patent position of biotechnology firms generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. To date, no consistent policy has emerged regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents. PharmAthene currently holds two US patents and has five US patent applications pending. In addition, we have rights under numerous other patents and patent applications pursuant to exclusive and 19 non-exclusive license arrangements with licensors and collaborators. However, there can be no assurance that patent applications owned or licensed by the Company will result in patents being issued or that the patents, existing or issued in the future, will afford protection against competitors with similar technology. Any conflicts resulting from third-party patent applications and patents could significantly reduce the coverage of the patents owned, optioned by or licensed to the Company or our collaborators and limit the ability of the Company or that of our collaborators to obtain meaningful patent protection. Further, the commercial success of PharmAthene will depend significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. The Company is aware of one US patent covering recombinant production of an antibody, which, it has been argued, covers any reproduction of an antibody, as well as another US patent application with claims over pegylated butyrylcholinesterase. Although PharmAthene believes that neither Valortim™, which is a monoclonal antibody and uses recombinant reproduction of antibodies, nor Protexia®, which uses pegylated butyrylcholinesterase technology, infringes on any valid claims of such patents, the Company cannot provide any assurances that if a legal action based on either of these two patents were to be brought against the Company or our distributors, licensees or collaborators, that the Company or our distributors, licensees or collaborators would prevail or that PharmAthene has sufficient funds or resources to defend such claims. If patents are issued to third parties that contain competitive or conflicting claims, PharmAthene, our licensors or collaborators may be legally prohibited from researching, developing or commercializing potential products or be required to obtain licenses to these patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. The Company, our licensors and/or our collaborators may be legally prohibited from using patented technology, may not be able to obtain any license to the patents and technologies of third parties on acceptable terms, if at all, or may not be able to obtain or develop alternative technologies. The costs associated with establishing the validity of patents, of defending against patent infringement claims of others and of asserting infringement claims against others is expensive and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable. An outcome of any patent prosecution or litigation that is unfavorable to PharmAthene or one of our licensors or collaborators may have a material adverse effect on the Company. Any inability to protect PharmAthene's intellectual property could harm our competitive position and adversely affect our business. PharmAthene's success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of other intellectual property for our technologies and products in the US and other countries. If the Company does not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode or negate our competitive advantages. Further, the laws of some foreign countries will not protect the Company's proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S., and the Company may encounter significant problems in protecting our proprietary rights in these foreign countries. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including the Company's patent positions, involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, validity and enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. Patents may be challenged, deemed unenforceable, invalidated or circumvented. PharmAthene will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that it covers our proprietary technologies with valid and enforceable patents or that it effectively maintains such proprietary technologies as trade secrets. The Company will apply for patents covering our technologies and product candidates as it deems appropriate. PharmAthene may fail to apply for patents on important technologies or products in a timely fashion, or at all, and in any event, the applications the Company files may be challenged and may not result in issued patents. Any future patents the Company obtains may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around the Company's patented technologies. In addition, if challenged, the Company's patents may be declared invalid. Even if valid, the Company's patents may fail to provide it with any competitive advantages. PharmAthene will rely upon trade secrets protection for our confidential and proprietary information. The Company has taken measures to protect our proprietary information; however, these measures may not provide adequate protection to the Company. The Company has sought to protect their proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators or consultants may still disclose the companies' proprietary information, and the Company may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. In addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or techniques or otherwise gain access to the Company's trade secrets. PharmAthene's use of hazardous materials and chemicals require it to comply with regulatory requirements which may result in significant costs and expose PharmAthene to potential liabilities. PharmAthene's research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals. The Company will be subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials. The Company will not be able to eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an accident, the Company could be held 20 liable for significant damages or fines, and these damages could exceed our resources and any applicable insurance coverage. In addition, the Company may be required to incur significant costs to comply with regulatory requirements in the future. PharmAthene may become subject to product liability claims, which could reduce demand for our product candidates or result in damages that exceed our insurance coverage. PharmAthene will face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability suits in connection with our products being tested in human clinical trials or sold commercially. The Company may become subject to a product liability suit if any product it develops causes injury, or if treated individuals subsequently become infected or otherwise suffer adverse effects from our products. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in decreased demand for a product, injury to the Company's reputation, withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers and loss of revenues. If a product liability claim is brought against the Company, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and any adverse determination may result in liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage. Additionally, the Company will be applying for indemnification under the Support Anti-terrorism by Fostering Effective Technologies Act of 2002 which preempts and modifies tort laws so as to limit the claims and damages potentially faced by companies who provide certain "qualified" anti-terrorism products. However, the Company cannot be certain that it will be able to obtain or maintain adequate insurance coverage on acceptable terms, if at all. Legislation limiting or restricting liability for medical products used to fight bioterrorism is new, and PharmAthene cannot be certain that any such protection will apply to our products and, therefore, PharmAthene could become subject to product liability suits and other third party claims if such protections do not apply. The Public Readiness and Emergency Preparedness Act ("Public Readiness Act") was signed into law in December 2005 and creates general immunity for manufacturers of countermeasures, including security countermeasures (as defined in Section 319F-2(c)(1)(B)), when the Secretary of Defense issues a declaration for their manufacture, administration or use. The declaration is meant to provide general immunity from all claims under state or federal law for loss arising out of the administration or use of a covered countermeasure. Manufacturers are excluded from this protection in cases of willful misconduct. Upon a declaration by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, a compensation fund is created to provide "timely, uniform, and adequate compensation to eligible individuals for covered injuries directly caused by the administration or use of a covered countermeasure." There is no assurance, however, that the Secretary of Health and Human Services will issue such a declaration. The "covered injuries" to which the program applies are defined as serious physical injuries or death. Individuals are permitted to bring a willful misconduct action against a manufacturer only after they have exhausted their remedies under the compensation program. A willful misconduct action could be brought against us if an individual(s) has exhausted their remedies under the compensation program which thereby could expose us to liability. PharmAthene may become subject to standard product liability suits and other third party claims if products it develops which fall outside of the Public Readiness Act cause injury or if treated individuals subsequently become infected or otherwise suffer adverse effects from such products. PharmAthene may be subject to claims that it or our employees wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of the employees' former employers. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to our management. As is commonplace in the biotechnology industry, the Company employs individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including their competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against the Company are currently pending, the Company may be subject to claims that these employees or it have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if the Company is successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If we experience delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, or are unable to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals, PharmAthene may be unable to commercialize any products. The Company will need to conduct a substantial amount of additional preclinical and clinical research and development before any US or foreign regulatory authority will approve any of our products. In addition, the Company's product candidates will be subject to extensive and rigorous domestic government regulation. Results of the Company's research and development activities may indicate that our potential products are unsafe or ineffective. In this case, regulatory authorities will not approve them. Even if approved, the Company's products may not be commercially successful. If the Company fails to develop and commercialize our products, it may be forced to curtail or cease operations. In addition, the commencement and rate of completion of clinical trials for the Company's products may be delayed by many factors, including: 21 •lack of efficacy during the clinical trials in animals; •unsatisfactory results of any clinical trial; •failure to comply with Good Clinical Practices; •unforeseen safety issues; •slower than expected rate of patient recruitment; or •government or regulatory delays. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals may: •adversely affect the commercialization of any products that the Company or our collaborative partners develop; •impose costly procedures on the Company or our collaborative partners; •diminish any competitive advantages that the Company or our collaborative partners may attain; and •adversely affect the Company's receipt of revenues or royalties. The results from preclinical testing and early clinical trials are often not predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. Although a new product may show promising results in initial clinical trials, it may subsequently prove unfeasible or impossible to generate sufficient safety and efficacy data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical studies are susceptible to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, the Company may encounter regulatory delays or rejections as a result of many factors, including results that do not support our claims, perceived defects in the design of clinical trials and changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development. The Company's business, financial condition, prospects and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by any delays in, or termination of, our clinical trials or a determination by the FDA that the results of the Company's trials are inadequate to justify regulatory approval. Any required approvals, once obtained, may be suspended or revoked. Further, if the Company fails to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements at any stage during the regulatory process, it may encounter difficulties including: •delays in clinical trials or commercialization; •product recalls or seizures; •suspension of production and/or distribution; •revocation of previously approved marketing applications; and •injunctions, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions. PharmAthene's collaborative partners may not be able to conduct clinical testing or obtain necessary approvals from the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any product candidates. If we fail to obtain required governmental approvals, we or our collaborative partners will experience delays in, or be precluded from, marketing products developed through it or, as applicable, their research. PharmAthene and our contract manufacturers will also be required to comply with the applicable FDA current Good Manufacturing Practice ("cGMP") regulations. These regulations include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturing facilities are subject to inspection by the FDA. These facilities must be approved before the Company will be able to use them in commercial manufacturing of our products. The Company and our contract manufacturers may not be able to comply with the applicable cGMP requirements and other FDA regulatory requirements. If the Company and our contract manufacturers fail to comply, we could be subject to fines or other sanctions, or be precluded from marketing our products. PharmAthene may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products if we or others identify side effects after our products are on the market. Such events could harm sales of the affected products. If the Company or others identify side effects after any of our products are on the market, or if manufacturing problems occur: 22 •regulatory approval may be revoked; •reformulation of the affected products, additional clinical trials, or changes in labeling of the Company's products may be required; •changes to or re-approvals of the Company's manufacturing facilities may be required; •sales of the affected products may drop significantly; •the Company's reputation in the marketplace may suffer; and •lawsuits, including class action suits, may be brought against the Company. Any of the above occurrences could harm or prevent sales of the affected products or could increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing these products. Risks Related to PharmAthene's Common Stock If the Company's initial stockholders exercise their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The Company's initial stockholders are entitled to require it to register the resale of their shares of common stock at any time after the date on which their shares are released from escrow, which, except in limited circumstances, will not be before July 29, 2008. If the Company's initial stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of common stock, then there will be an additional 2,250,000 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of this additional number of shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company's common stock. The American Stock Exchange may delist the Company's securities from trading which could limit investors' ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. The Company's common stock and some warrants are listed on the AMEX, a national securities exchange. PharmAthene cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the AMEX. If the AMEX delists the Company's securities from trading on our exchange and it is not able to list our securities on another exchange or to have them quoted on Nasdaq, the Company's securities could be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, or "pink sheets". As a result, we could face significant adverse consequences including: •a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; •a determination that the Company's common stock is a "penny stock" which will require brokers trading in the Company's common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for the Company's securities; •a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for the Company; and •a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 