Item 1A. Risk Factors This section describes circumstances or events that could have a negative effect on our financial results or operations or that could change, for the worse, existing trends in some or all of our businesses. The occurrence of one or more of the circumstances or events described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or on the trading prices of our Class A Common Stock that we have issued or securities we may issue in the future. We have also included a detailed discussion of risks and uncertainties arising from governmental regulation of our businesses, one of the most significant risks we face, in the section “Business — Governmental Regulation” above. The risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect our business and operations. Risks Related to Our Operations and Financial Performance We have incurred and may continue to incur losses Our operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past from quarter to quarter and may continue to do so in the future. Our net losses from 2001 to 2003 totaled approximately $2.6 billion. Our online businesses participate in relatively new and rapidly evolving markets. Many companies with business plans based on providing healthcare information through the Internet have failed to be profitable and some have filed for bankruptcy and/or ceased operations. Even if demand from users exists, we cannot assure you that our business will be profitable. In addition, our online businesses have a limited operating history and participate in relatively new and rapidly growing markets. These businesses have undergone significant changes during their short history as a result of changes in the types of services provided, technological changes, changes in market conditions, and changes in ownership and management, and are expected to continue to change for similar reasons. If we are unable to provide content that attracts and retains users to The WebMD Health Network at a level that is attractive to advertisers and sponsors, our revenue will be reduced We believe that interest in our public portals for consumers, physicians and other healthcare professionals is based upon our ability to make available health content, decision-support applications and other services that meet the needs of our users. Our ability to do so depends, in turn, on: • our ability to hire and retain qualified authors, journalists and independent writers; • our ability to license quality content from third parties; and • our ability to monitor and respond to increases and decreases in user interest in specific topics. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to develop or acquire needed content at a reasonable cost. If we are unable to provide content that attracts and retains users at a level that is attractive to advertisers and sponsors, our revenue will be reduced. In addition, our ability to deploy new interactive tools and other features will require us to continue to improve the technology underlying our Web sites. The required changes may be significant and expensive, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to execute them quickly and efficiently. We face significant competition for our products and services The markets in which we operate are intensely competitive, continually evolving and, in some cases, subject to rapid change. • Our public portals face competition from numerous other companies, both in attracting users and in generating revenue from advertisers and sponsors. We compete for users with online services and Web sites that provide health-related information, including both commercial sites and not-for-profit sites. We compete for advertisers and sponsors with both health-related Web sites and general purpose 27 Table of Contents consumer online services and portals and other high-traffic Web sites that include both healthcare-related and non-healthcare-related content and services. • Our private portals compete with: providers of healthcare decision-support tools and online health management applications; wellness and disease management vendors; and health information services and health management offerings of health plans and their affiliates. • Our Publishing and Other Services segment’s products and services compete with numerous other online and offline sources of healthcare information, including traditional medical reference publications, print journals and other specialized publications targeted to physicians, some of which have a more complete range of titles and better access to traditional distribution channels than we have. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and other resources than we do. These organizations may be better known than we are and have more customers or users than we do. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against these organizations or any alliances they have formed or may form. Since there are no substantial barriers to entry into the markets in which our public portals participate, we expect that competitors will continue to enter these markets. If we are unable to provide healthcare content for our offline publications that attracts and retains users, our revenue will be reduced Interest in our publications for physicians, such as The Little Blue Book and ACP Medicine and ACS Surgery: Principles and Practice, is based upon our ability to make available up-to-date health content that meets the needs of our physician users. Although we have been able to continue to update and maintain the physician practice information that we publish in The Little Blue Book, if we are unable to continue to do so for any reason, the value of The Little Blue Book would diminish and interest in this publication and advertising in this publication would be adversely affected. Similarly, our ability to maintain or increase the subscriptions to ACP Medicine and ACS Surgery is based upon our ability to make available up-to-date content which depends on our ability to retain qualified physician authors and writers in the disciplines covered by these publications. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain qualified physician editors or authors to provide and review needed content at a reasonable cost. If we are unable to provide content that attracts and retains subscribers, subscriptions to these products will be reduced. In addition, the American College of Physicians permits WebMD to use the ACP name in the title of ACP Medicine and the American College of Surgeons permits WebMD to use the name ACS in the title of ACS Surgery: Principles and Practice. If we lose the right to use the ACP or ACS name in our publications, subscribers may find the publication less attractive and cease to subscribe to these publications. WebMD the Magazine was launched in April 2005 and as a result has a very short operating history. We cannot assure you that WebMD the Magazine will be able to attract advertisers to make this publication successful in the long term. The timing of our advertising and sponsorship revenue may vary significantly from quarter to quarter Our advertising and sponsorship revenue, which accounted for approximately 72% of our total Online Services segment revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005, may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, not all of which are in our control, and any of which may be difficult to forecast accurately. The majority of our advertising and sponsorship contracts are for terms of approximately four to 12 months. We have relatively few longer term contracts. We cannot assure you that our current customers will continue to use our services beyond the terms of their existing contracts or that they will enter into any additional contracts. In addition, the time between the date of initial contact with a potential advertiser or sponsor regarding a specific program and the execution of a contract with the advertiser or sponsor for that program may be lengthy, especially for larger contracts, and may be subject to delays over which we have little or no control, 28 Table of Contents including as a result of budgetary constraints of the advertiser or sponsor or their need for internal approvals. Other factors that could affect the timing of our revenue from advertisers and sponsors include: • the timing of FDA approval for new products or for new approved uses for existing products; • seasonal factors relating to the prevalence of specific health conditions and other seasonal factors that may affect the timing of promotional campaigns for specific products; and • the scheduling of conferences for physicians and other healthcare professionals. Developing and implementing new or updated products and services may take longer and cost more than expected We rely on a combination of internal development, strategic relationships, licensing and acquisitions to develop our products and services. The cost of developing new healthcare information services and technology solutions is inherently difficult to estimate. Our development and implementation of proposed products and services may take longer than originally expected, require more testing than originally anticipated and require the acquisition of additional personnel and other resources. If we are unable to develop new or updated products and services on a timely basis and implement them without significant disruptions to the existing systems and processes of our customers, we may lose potential sales and harm our relationships with current or potential customers. Achieving market acceptance of new or updated products and services is likely to require significant efforts and expenditures Achieving market acceptance for new or updated products and services is likely to require substantial marketing efforts and expenditure of significant funds to create awareness and demand by participants in the healthcare industry. In addition, deployment of new or updated products and services may require the use of additional resources for training our existing sales force and customer service personnel and for hiring and training additional salespersons and customer service personnel. There can be no assurance that the revenue opportunities from new or updated products and services will justify amounts spent for their development, marketing and roll-out. Lengthy sales and implementation cycles for our private online portals make it difficult to forecast our revenues from these applications and, as a result, may have an adverse impact on our business The period from our initial contact with a potential client for a private online portal and the first purchase of our solution by the client is difficult to predict. In the past, this period has generally ranged from six to 12 months, but in some cases has been longer. These sales may be subject to delays due to a client’s internal procedures for approving large expenditures and other factors beyond our control. The time it takes to implement a private online portal is also difficult to predict and has lasted as long as six months from contract execution to the commencement of live operation. Implementation may be subject to delays based on the availability of the internal resources of the client that are needed and other factors outside of our control. As a result, we have limited ability to forecast the timing of revenue from new clients. This, in turn, makes it more difficult to predict our financial performance from quarter to quarter. During the sales cycle and the implementation period, we may expend substantial time, effort and money preparing contract proposals, negotiating contracts and implementing the private online portal without receiving any related revenue. In addition, many of the expenses related to providing private online portals are relatively fixed in the short term, including personnel costs and technology and infrastructure costs. Even if our revenue is lower than expected, we may not be able to reduce our short-term spending in response. Any shortfall in revenue would have a direct impact on our results of operations. Prior to our IPO, we had not been operated as an entity separate from Emdeon, and, as a result, our historical and pro forma financial information may not be indicative of our historical financial results on a stand-alone basis or future financial performance Our consolidated financial information included in this Annual Report assumes that, for the periods presented, we had existed as a separate legal entity, and has been derived from the consolidated financial statements of Emdeon. Some costs have been reflected in the consolidated financial statements that are not 29 Table of Contents necessarily indicative of the costs that we would have incurred had we operated as an independent, stand-alone entity for all periods presented. These costs include allocated portions of Emdeon’s corporate services and employee healthcare expenses, interest expense and income taxes. Our consolidated financial information included in this Annual Report may not be indicative of our future financial performance, because these statements do not necessarily reflect our historical financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as they would have been had we been operated during the periods presented as a separate, stand-alone entity. In addition, since the IPO, we have continued to rely on Emdeon to provide us with certain services pursuant to the services agreement we have entered into with Emdeon. We reimburse Emdeon under agreed upon formulas that allocate to us a portion of Emdeon’s aggregate costs related to those services. With respect to most of the services provided under the services agreement, we believe that it is likely that it would cost us more to provide or contract for them on our own because we benefit from Emdeon’s economies of scale as a larger corporation. See also “Risks Related to our Relationship with Emdeon — We continue to be dependent on Emdeon to provide us with services for our business.” We will be required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and any adverse results from such evaluation or from the evaluation that will be conducted by our auditors could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006, we will be required to include a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report will contain, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Such report must also contain a statement that our auditors have issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of such internal controls. We are currently in the process of preparing to comply with Section 404. We have some experience with documenting, testing and evaluating internal control over financial reporting because our business is a segment of Emdeon, which has already been required to evaluate its internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. However, we have not been through this process for WebMD itself and, because WebMD is a smaller company, certain of the materiality thresholds applicable in WebMD’s internal control over financial reporting will be lower than those applicable to Emdeon. In addition, we are currently preparing to perform financial reporting processes that are separate from those of Emdeon, using different financial reporting software than Emdeon uses. We will need to document, test and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting in connection with such implementation. If our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, we will be unable to assert such internal control is effective in our initial management report on such internal control. If we are unable to make that assertion (or if our auditors are unable to attest that our management’s report is fairly stated or they are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. We expect that accounting for employee stock options using the fair value method will have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations and earnings per share In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123R, which requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of stock options by us and Emdeon to our employees, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values, beginning with the fiscal year that begins after June 15, 2005. As permitted by SFAS No. 123, we accounted for share-based payments to employees using the intrinsic value method prescribed in APB Opinion No. 25 for all prior year periods. We adopted SFAS 123R on January 1, 2006. See Note 2 to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for more information regarding accounting for stock-based compensation plans. 30 Table of Contents As described in Note 2 to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report, we adopted the modified prospective transition method utilizing a standard option pricing model. The adoption of SFAS 123R will have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations and earnings per share in 2006. Acquisitions, business combinations and other transactions may be difficult to complete and, if completed, may have negative consequences for our business and our securityholders We have been built, in large part, through a series of acquisitions. We intend to continue to seek to acquire or to engage in business combinations with companies engaged in complementary businesses. In addition, we may enter into joint ventures, strategic alliances or similar arrangements with third parties. These transactions may result in changes in the nature and scope of our operations and changes in our financial condition. Our success in completing these types of transactions will depend on, among other things, our ability to locate suitable candidates and negotiate mutually acceptable terms with them, and to obtain adequate financing. Significant competition for these opportunities exists, which may increase the cost of and decrease the opportunities for these types of transactions. Financing for these transactions may come from several sources, including: • cash and cash equivalents on hand and marketable securities; • proceeds from the incurrence of indebtedness; and • proceeds from the issuance of additional Class A Common Stock, preferred stock, convertible debt or other securities. The issuance of additional equity or debt securities could: • cause substantial dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders at the time of the issuance; • cause substantial dilution of our earnings per share; • subject us to the risks associated with increased leverage, including a reduction in our ability to obtain financing or an increase in the cost of any financing we obtain; • subject us to restrictive covenants that could limit our flexibility in conducting future business activities; and • adversely affect the prevailing market price for our outstanding securities. We do not intend to seek securityholder approval for any such acquisition or security issuance unless required by applicable law, regulation or the terms of then existing securities. Our business will suffer if we fail to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies or to assess the risks in particular transactions We have in the past acquired, and may in the future acquire, businesses, technologies, services, product lines and other assets. The successful integration of the acquired businesses and assets into our operations, on a cost-effective basis, can be critical to our future performance. The amount and timing of the expected benefits of any acquisition, including potential synergies between our company and the acquired business, are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those relating to: • our ability to maintain relationships with the customers of the acquired business; • our ability to retain or replace key personnel; • potential conflicts in sponsor or advertising relationships; • our ability to coordinate organizations that are geographically diverse and may have different business cultures; and • compliance with regulatory requirements. 31 Table of Contents We cannot guarantee that any acquired businesses will be successfully integrated with our operations in a timely or cost-effective manner, or at all. Failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses or to achieve anticipated operating synergies, revenue enhancements or cost savings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although our management attempts to evaluate the risks inherent in each transaction and to value acquisition candidates appropriately, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain all such risks or that acquired businesses and assets will perform as we expect or enhance the value of our company as a whole. In addition, acquired companies or businesses may have larger than expected liabilities that are not covered by the indemnification, if any, that we are able to obtain from the sellers. We may not be able to raise additional funds when needed for our business or to exploit opportunities Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including the success of the integration of our businesses, our existing and new applications and service offerings, competing technologies and market developments, and potential future acquisitions. We may need to raise additional funds to support expansion, develop new or enhanced applications and services, respond to competitive pressures, acquire complementary businesses or technologies or take advantage of unanticipated opportunities. If required, we may raise such additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing, strategic relationships or other arrangements. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all, or that such financing will not be dilutive to our stockholders. Our failure to attract and retain qualified executives and employees may have a material adverse effect on our business Our business depends largely on the skills, experience and performance of key members of our management team. We also depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified writers and editors, software developers and other technical personnel and sales and marketing personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the healthcare information services and Internet industries is intense. We cannot assure you that we will be able to hire or retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel to meet our requirements, or that we will be able to do so at salary and benefit costs that are acceptable to us. Failure to do so may have an adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Relationships with Clients Developments in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business Most of our revenue is derived from the healthcare industry and could be affected by changes affecting healthcare spending. General reductions in expenditures by healthcare industry participants could result from, among other things: • government regulation or private initiatives that affect the manner in which healthcare providers interact with patients, payers or other healthcare industry participants, including changes in pricing or means of delivery of healthcare products and services; • consolidation of healthcare industry participants; • reductions in governmental funding for healthcare; and • adverse changes in business or economic conditions affecting healthcare payers or providers, pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical device companies or other healthcare industry participants. We are particularly dependent on pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies for our advertising and sponsorship revenue. Our business will be adversely impacted if business or economic conditions result in the reduction of purchases by our customers if they decide not to renew their commitments or decide to renew their commitments at lower levels. Even if general expenditures by industry participants remain the same or increase, developments in the healthcare industry may result in reduced spending in some 32 Table of Contents or all of the specific segments of that market we serve or are planning to serve. For example, use of our products and services could be affected by: • changes in the design of health insurance plans; • a decrease in the number of new drugs or medical devices coming to market; and • decreases in marketing expenditures by pharmaceutical companies or consumer product companies, including as a result of governmental regulation or private initiatives that discourage or prohibit advertising or sponsorship activities by pharmaceutical or medical device companies. In addition, our customers’ expectations regarding pending or potential industry developments may also affect their budgeting processes and spending plans with respect to products and services of the types we provide. The healthcare industry has changed significantly in recent years and we expect that significant changes will continue to occur. However, the timing and impact of developments in the healthcare industry are difficult to predict. We cannot assure you that the markets for our products and services will continue to exist at current levels or that we will have adequate technical, financial and marketing resources to react to changes in those markets. The WebMD Health Network includes Web sites that we supply content to, but do not own, and the termination of our relationship with the owners of these Web sites may negatively affect our results of operations Although the substantial majority of the visitors to The WebMD Health Network and the page views we generate on The WebMD Health Network are from Web sites we own, some are from Web sites owned by third parties that carry our content and, as a result, our traffic may vary based on the amount of traffic to Web sites of these third parties and other factors outside our control. During the year ended December 31, 2005, third party Web sites accounted for approximately 23% of The WebMD Health Network’s unique users and approximately 12% of its aggregate page views. In the event that any of our relationships with our third party Web sites are terminated, The WebMD Health Network’s user traffic and page views may be negatively affected, which may negatively affect our results of operations. We may not be able to attract visitors to our Web sites on a consistent basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations Since users of our public portals may be attracted to The WebMD Health Network as a result of a specific condition or for a specific purpose, it is difficult for us to predict the rate at which users will return to the public portals. Further, users of The WebMD Health Network have numerous other online and offline sources of healthcare information services, and some users may visit The WebMD Health Network as a result of our existing third party relationships. If one or more of these third parties engages in conduct that negatively affects users of those third party Web sites, users that come to The WebMD Health Network through these third party Web sites may decrease. Because we generate revenue by, among other things, selling sponsorships of specific pages, sections or events on The WebMD Health Network for healthcare providers and consumers and related e-newsletters, a decline in user traffic levels or a reduction in the number of pages viewed by users could cause our revenue to decrease and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be unsuccessful in our efforts to increase advertising and sponsorship revenue from consumer products companies Most of our advertising and sponsorship revenue has, in the past, come from pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies. During the past year, we have been focusing on increasing sponsorship revenue from consumer products companies that are interested in communicating health-related or safety-related information about their products to our audience. However, while a number of consumer products companies have indicated an intent to increase the portion of their promotional spending used on the Internet, we cannot assure you that these advertisers and sponsors will find our consumer Web site to be as effective as other Web sites or traditional media for promoting their products and services. If we encounter difficulties in 33 Table of Contents competing with the other alternatives available to consumer products companies, this portion of our business may develop more slowly than we expect or may fail to develop. We could be subject to breach of warranty or other claims by clients of our online portals if the software and systems we use to provide them contain errors or experience failures Errors in the software and systems we use could cause serious problems for clients of our online portals. We may fail to meet contractual performance standards or fail to meet expectations that our clients have for them. Clients of our online portals may seek compensation from us or may seek to terminate their agreements with us, withhold payments due to us, seek refunds from us of part or all of the fees charged under those agreements or initiate litigation or other dispute resolution procedures. In addition, we could face breach of warranty or other claims by clients or additional development costs. Our software and systems are inherently complex and, despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that they are error free. We attempt to limit, by contract, our liability to our clients for damages arising from our negligence, errors or mistakes. However, contractual limitations on liability may not be enforceable in certain circumstances or may otherwise not provide sufficient protection to us from liability for damages. We maintain liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors and omissions. However, it is possible that claims could exceed the amount of our applicable insurance coverage, if any, or that this coverage may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, investigating and defending against them could be expensive and time consuming and could divert management’s attention away from our operations. In addition, negative publicity caused by these events may delay or hinder market acceptance of our services, including unrelated services. Risks Related to Use of the Internet and to Our Technological Infrastructure Our Internet-based services are dependent on the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure Our ability to deliver our Internet-based services is dependent on the development and maintenance of the infrastructure of the Internet by third parties. This includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity and security, as well as timely development of complementary products such as high-speed modems, for providing reliable Internet access and services. The Internet has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, significant growth in the number of users and the amount of traffic. If the Internet continues to experience increased usage, the Internet infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it. In addition, the reliability and performance of the Internet may be harmed by increased usage or by denial-of-service attacks. The Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damages to portions of its infrastructure, and it could face outages and delays in the future. These outages and delays could reduce the level of Internet usage as well as the availability of the Internet to us for delivery of our Internet-based services. In addition, our customers who utilize our Web-based services depend on Internet service providers, online service providers and other Web site operators for access to our Web site. All of these providers have experienced significant outages in the past and could experience outages, delays and other difficulties in the future due to system failures unrelated to our systems. Any significant interruptions in our services or increases in response time could result in a loss of potential or existing users of and advertisers and sponsors on our Web site and, if sustained or repeated, could reduce the attractiveness of our services. We rely on bandwidth providers, data center providers, other third parties and our own systems for key aspects of the process of providing products and services to our users, and any failure or interruption in the services provided by these third parties or our own systems could harm our business Our online services are designed to operate 24 hours a day, seven days a week, without interruption. However, we have experienced and expect that we will experience interruptions and delays in services and 34 Table of Contents availability from time to time. We rely on internal systems as well as third party vendors, including data center providers and bandwidth providers, to provide our online services. We do not maintain redundant systems or facilities for some of these services. In the event of a catastrophic event at one of our data centers, we may experience an extended period of system unavailability, which could negatively impact our relationship with users and adversely affect our brand and our business. To operate without interruption, both we and our service providers must guard against: • damage from fire, power loss and other natural disasters; • communications failures; • software and hardware errors, failures and crashes; • security breaches, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems; and • other potential interruptions. Any disruption in the network access or co-location services provided by these third party providers or any failure of or by these third party providers or our own systems to handle current or higher volume of use could significantly harm our business. We exercise little control over these third party vendors, which increases our vulnerability to problems with services they provide. Any errors, failures, interruptions or delays experienced in connection with these third party technologies and information services or our own systems could negatively impact our relationships with users and adversely affect our brand and our business and could expose us to liabilities to third parties. Although we maintain insurance for our business, the coverage under our policies may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at an acceptable cost. Implementation of changes in hardware and software platforms used to deliver our online services may result in performance problems and may not provide the additional functionality that was expected From time to time, we implement changes to the hardware and software platforms we use for providing our online services. During and after the implementation of those changes, a platform may not perform as expected, which could result in interruptions in operations, an increase in response time or an inability to track performance metrics. Any significant interruption in our ability to operate any of our online services could have an adverse effect on our relationships with users and clients and, as a result, on our financial results. We rely on a combination of purchasing, licensing, internal development, and acquisitions to develop our hardware and software platforms. Our implementation of changes in these platforms may cost more than originally expected, may take longer than originally expected, and may require more testing than originally anticipated. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that changes in these platforms will provide the additional functionality and other benefits that were originally expected. If the systems we use to provide online portals experience security breaches or are otherwise perceived to be insecure, our business could suffer We retain and transmit confidential information, including personal health records, in the processing centers and other facilities we use to provide online services. It is critical that these facilities and infrastructure remain secure and be perceived by the marketplace as secure. A security breach could damage our reputation or result in liability. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches and hackers or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. Despite the implementation of security measures, this infrastructure or other systems that we interface with, including the Internet and related systems, may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, hackers, improper employee or contractor access, computer viruses, programming errors, denial-of-service attacks or other attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. Any compromise of our security, whether as a result of our own systems or the systems that they 35 Table of Contents interface with, could reduce demand for our services, and could subject us to legal claims from our clients and users, including for breach of contract or breach of warranty. Risks Related to the Legal and Regulatory Environment in Which We Operate Government regulation of healthcare creates risks and challenges with respect to our compliance efforts and our business strategies The healthcare industry is highly regulated and is subject to changing political, legislative, regulatory and other influences. Existing and new laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry could create unexpected liabilities for us, cause us to incur additional costs and could restrict our operations. Many healthcare laws are complex and their application to specific products and services may not be clear. In particular, many existing healthcare laws and regulations, when enacted, did not anticipate the healthcare information services that we provide. However, these laws and regulations may nonetheless be applied to our products and services. Our failure to accurately anticipate the application of these laws and regulations, or other failure to comply, could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity and negatively affect our businesses. Some of the risks we face from healthcare regulation are as follows: • Regulation of Drug and Medical Device Advertising and Promotion. The WebMD Health Network provides services involving advertising and promotion of prescription and over-the-counter drugs and medical devices. If the FDA or the FTC finds that any information on our Web sites violates FDA or FTC regulations, they may take regulatory or judicial action against us and/or the advertiser or sponsor of that information. State attorneys general may also take similar action based on their state’s consumer protection statutes. Any increase in regulation of drug or medical device advertising and promotion could make it more difficult for us to contract for sponsorships and advertising. Physician groups and others have criticized the FDA’s current policies, and have called for restrictions on advertising of prescription drugs to consumers and increased FDA enforcement. We cannot predict what actions the FDA or industry participants may take in response to these criticisms. It is also possible that new laws would be enacted that impose restrictions on such advertising. Our advertising and sponsorship revenue could be materially reduced by additional restrictions on the advertising of prescription drugs and medical devices to consumers, whether imposed by law or regulation or by policies adopted by industry members. • Anti-kickback Laws. There are federal and state laws that govern patient referrals, physician financial relationships and inducements to healthcare providers and patients. The federal healthcare programs anti-kickback law prohibits any person or entity from offering, paying, soliciting or receiving anything of value, directly or indirectly, for the referral of patients covered by Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs or the leasing, purchasing, ordering or arranging for or recommending the lease, purchase or order of any item, good, facility or service covered by these programs. Many states also have similar anti-kickback laws that are not necessarily limited to items or services for which payment is made by a federal healthcare program. These laws are applicable to manufacturers and distributors and, therefore, may restrict how we and some of our customers market products to healthcare providers. Any determination by a state or federal regulatory agency that any of our practices violate any of these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties and require us to change or terminate some portions of our business and could have an adverse effect on our business. Even an unsuccessful challenge by regulatory authorities of our practices could result in adverse publicity and be costly for us to respond to. • Medical Professional Regulation. The practice of most healthcare professions requires licensing under applicable state law. In addition, the laws in some states prohibit business entities from practicing medicine. If a state determines that some portion of our business violates these laws, it may seek to have us discontinue those portions or subject us to penalties or licensure requirements. Any determination that we are a healthcare provider and have acted improperly as a healthcare provider may result in liability to us. 36 Table of Contents Government regulation of the Internet could adversely affect our business The Internet and its associated technologies are subject to government regulation. Our failure, or the failure of our business partners or third party providers, to accurately anticipate the application of laws and regulations affecting our products and services and the manner in which we deliver them, or any other failure to comply with such laws and regulations, could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity and negatively affect our business. In addition, new laws and regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may be adopted with respect to the Internet or other online services covering user privacy, patient confidentiality, consumer protection and other issues, including pricing, content, copyrights and patents, distribution and characteristics and quality of products and services. We cannot predict whether these laws or regulations will change or how such changes will affect our business. We face potential liability related to the privacy and security of personal information we collect from consumer and healthcare professionals through our Web sites Internet user privacy has become a major issue both in the United States and abroad. We have privacy policies posted on our Web sites that we believe comply with applicable laws requiring notice to users about our information collection, use and disclosure practices. However, whether and how existing privacy and consumer protection laws in various jurisdictions apply to the Internet is still uncertain and may take years to resolve. Any legislation or regulation in the area of privacy of personal information could affect the way we operate our Web sites and could harm our business. Further, we cannot assure you that the privacy policies and other statements on our Web sites or our practices will be found sufficient to protect us from liability or adverse publicity in this area. Changes in industry guidelines or government regulation could adversely affect our online CME offerings Our CME activities are planned and implemented in accordance with the Essential Areas and Policies of the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education, or ACCME, which oversees providers of CME credit, and other applicable accreditation standards. In September 2004, ACCME revised its standards for commercial support of CME. The revised standards are intended to ensure, among other things, that CME activities of ACCME-accredited providers are independent of providers of healthcare goods and services that fund the development of CME. ACCME required accredited providers to implement these standards by May 2005. Implementation has required additional disclosures to CME participants about those in a position to influence content and other adjustments to the management and operations of our CME programs. We believe we have modified our procedures as appropriate to meet the revised standards. However, we cannot be certain whether these adjustments will ensure that we meet the new standards or predict whether ACCME may impose additional requirements. In the event that ACCME concludes that we have not met its revised standards relating to CME, we would not be permitted to offer accredited ACCME activities to physicians and other healthcare professionals, and we may be required, instead, to use third parties to accredit such CME-related services on Medscape from WebMD. In addition, any failure to maintain our status as an accredited ACCME provider as a result of a failure to comply with existing or new ACCME standards could discourage potential sponsors from engaging in CME or education related activities with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. CME activities may also be subject to government regulation by the FDA, the OIG, or HHS, the federal agency responsible for interpreting certain federal laws relating to healthcare, and state regulatory agencies. During the past several years, educational programs, including CME, directed toward physicians have been subject to increased scrutiny to ensure that sponsors do not influence or control the content of the program. In response to governmental and industry initiatives, pharmaceutical companies and medical device companies have been developing and implementing internal controls and procedures that promote adherence to applicable regulations and requirements. In implementing these controls and procedures, different clients may 37 Table of Contents interpret the regulations and requirements differently and may implement procedures or requirements that vary from client to client. These controls and procedures: • may discourage pharmaceutical companies from engaging in educational activities; • may slow their internal approval for such programs; • may reduce the volume of sponsored educational programs implemented through our Medscape Web site to levels that are lower than in the past; and • may require us to make changes to how we offer or provide educational programs, including CME. In addition, future changes to existing regulations or accreditation standards, or to the internal compliance programs of potential clients, may further discourage or prohibit potential clients from engaging in educational activities with us, or may require us to make further changes in the way we offer or provide educational programs. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property and proprietary rights Our intellectual property is important to our businesses. We rely on a combination of trade secret, patent and other intellectual property laws and confidentiality procedures and non-disclosure contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. We believe that our non-patented proprietary technologies and business processes are protected under trade secret, contractual and other intellectual property rights. However, those rights do not afford the statutory exclusivity provided by patented processes. In addition, the steps that we take to protect our intellectual property, proprietary information and trade secrets may prove to be inadequate and, whether or not adequate, may be expensive. We cannot assure you that we will be able to detect potential or actual misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property, proprietary information or trade secrets. Even if we detect misappropriation or infringement by a third party, we cannot assure you that we will be able to enforce our rights at a reasonable cost, or at all. In addition, our rights to intellectual property, proprietary information and trade secrets may not prevent independent third party development and commercialization of competing products or services. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from providing certain services, which may harm our business We could be subject to claims that we are misappropriating or infringing intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others. These claims, even if not meritorious, could be expensive to defend and divert management’s attention from our operations. If we become liable to third parties for infringing these rights, we could be required to pay a substantial damage award and to develop non-infringing technology, obtain a license or cease selling the products or services that use or contain the infringing intellectual property. We may be unable to develop non-infringing products or services or obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may also be required to indemnify our customers if they become subject to third party claims relating to intellectual property that we license or otherwise provide to them, which could be costly. Third parties may challenge the enforceability of our online agreements The law governing the validity and enforceability of online agreements and other electronic transactions is evolving. We could be subject to claims by third parties that the online terms and conditions for use of our Web sites, including disclaimers or limitations of liability, are unenforceable. A finding by a court that these terms and conditions or other online agreements are invalid could harm our business. We may be subject to claims brought against us as a result of content we provide Consumers access health-related information through our online services, including information regarding particular medical conditions and possible adverse reactions or side effects from medications. If our content, or content we obtain from third parties, contains inaccuracies, it is possible that consumers, employees, health plan members or others may sue us for various causes of action. Although our Web sites contain terms and 38 Table of Contents conditions, including disclaimers of liability, that are intended to reduce or eliminate our liability, the law governing the validity and enforceability of online agreements and other electronic transactions is evolving. We could be subject to claims by third parties that our online agreements with consumers and physicians that provide the terms and conditions for use of our public or private portals are unenforceable. A finding by a court that these agreements are invalid and that we are subject to liability could harm our business and require costly changes to our business. We have editorial procedures in place to provide quality control of the information that we publish or provide. However, we cannot assure you that our editorial and other quality control procedures will be sufficient to ensure that there are no errors or omissions in particular content. Even if potential claims do not result in liability to us, investigating and defending against these claims could be expensive and time consuming and could divert management’s attention away from our operations. In addition, our business is based on establishing the reputation of our portals as trustworthy and dependable sources of healthcare information. Allegations of impropriety or inaccuracy, even if unfounded, could therefore harm our reputation and business. Risks Related to Our Relationship With Emdeon The concentrated ownership of our common stock by Emdeon and certain corporate governance arrangements prevent our other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions We have two classes of common stock: • Class A Common Stock, which entitles the holder to one vote per share on all matters submitted to our stockholders; and • Class B Common Stock, which entitles the holder to five votes per share on all matters submitted to our stockholders. Emdeon owns 100% of our Class B Common Stock, which represents 85.8% of our outstanding common stock. These Class B shares collectively represent 96.7% of the combined voting power of our outstanding common stock. Given its ownership interest, Emdeon is able to control the outcome of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. Accordingly, either in its capacity as a stockholder or through its control of our Board of Directors, Emdeon is able to control all key decisions regarding our company, including mergers or other business combinations and acquisitions, dispositions of assets, future issuances of our common stock or other securities, the incurrence of debt by us, the payment of dividends on our common stock (including the frequency and the amount of dividends that would be payable on our common stock, a substantial majority of which Emdeon owns) and amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. Further, as long as Emdeon and its subsidiaries (excluding our company and our subsidiaries) continue to beneficially own shares representing at least a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of our outstanding voting stock, it may take actions required to be taken at a meeting of stockholders without a meeting or a vote and without prior notice to holders of our Class A Common Stock. In addition, Emdeon’s controlling interest may discourage a change of control that the holders of our Class A Common Stock may favor. Any of these provisions could be used by Emdeon for its own advantage to the detriment of our other stockholders and our company. This in turn may have an adverse affect on the market price of our Class A Common Stock. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could adversely affect the value of our Class A Common Stock Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware corporate law, contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control or changes in our management and board of directors that a holder of our Class A Common Stock might consider favorable and may prevent you from receiving a takeover premium for your shares. These provisions include, for example, our classified board structure, the disproportionate voting rights of the Class B Common Stock (relative to the Class A Common Stock) and the authorization of our Board of Directors to issue up to 50 million shares of preferred stock without a stockholder vote. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation provides that after the time Emdeon and 39 Table of Contents its affiliates cease to own, in the aggregate, a majority of the combined voting power of our outstanding capital stock, stockholders may not act by written consent and may not call special meetings. These provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our Class A Common Stock could decline. The interests of Emdeon may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders We cannot assure you that the interests of Emdeon will coincide with the interests of the other holders of our common stock. For example, Emdeon could cause us to make acquisitions that increase the amount of our indebtedness or outstanding shares of common stock or sell revenue-generating assets. Also, Emdeon or its directors and officers may allocate corporate opportunities to itself or direct them to other affiliates, which, prior to the IPO, could have been directed to us. So long as Emdeon continues to own shares of our common stock with significant voting power, Emdeon will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. Some of our directors, officers and employees may have potential conflicts of interest as a result of having positions with, or owning equity interests in, Emdeon Martin J. Wygod, in addition to being Chairman of the Board of our company, is Chairman of the Board of Emdeon. Some of our other directors, officers and employees also serve as directors, officers or employees of Emdeon. In addition, some of our directors, officers and employees own shares of Emdeon’s common stock. Furthermore, because our officers and employees have participated in Emdeon’s equity compensation plans and because service at our company will, so long as we are a majority-owned subsidiary of Emdeon, qualify those persons for continued participation and continued vesting of equity awards under Emdeon’s equity plans, many of our officers and employees and some of our directors hold, and may continue to hold, options to purchase Emdeon’s common stock and shares of Emdeon’s restricted stock. These arrangements and ownership interests or cash- or equity-based awards could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when directors or officers who own Emdeon’s stock or stock options or who participate in Emdeon’s benefit plans are faced with decisions that could have different implications for Emdeon than they do for us. We cannot assure you that the provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation will adequately address potential conflicts of interest or that potential conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. We continue to be dependent on Emdeon to provide us with services for our business Prior to our IPO, we had been operated as a wholly owned subsidiary of Emdeon, and many key services required by us for the operation of our business were and continue to be provided to us by Emdeon. As a result, we are dependent on our relationship with Emdeon for these important services. In connection with our IPO, we entered into agreements with Emdeon relating to certain intercompany transactions between us and Emdeon, including, among others, a services agreement, a registration rights agreement, an indemnity agreement, a tax sharing agreement and an intellectual property license agreement. The terms and provisions of these agreements may be less favorable to us than terms and provisions that we could have obtained in arm’s length negotiations with unaffiliated third parties. Under the services agreement, Emdeon provides us with administrative services, including services relating to payroll, accounting, tax planning and compliance, employee benefit plans, legal matters and information processing. Our services agreement with Emdeon is for a term of up to five years, however, we have the option to terminate these services, in whole or in part, at any time we choose to do so, generally by providing, with respect to the specified services or groups of services, 60 days’ notice and, in some cases, paying a termination fee of not more than $30,000 to cover the costs of Emdeon relating to the termination. Emdeon has the right to terminate the services that it provides to us, in whole or in part, if it ceases to provide such services itself, upon at least 180 days notice to us. If the services agreement expires or is otherwise terminated, or if Emdeon does not or is unable to perform its obligations under the services agreement, we will be required to provide some or all these services ourselves or to obtain substitute arrangements with third parties. We reimburse Emdeon under 40 Table of Contents agreed upon formulas that allocate to us a portion of Emdeon’s aggregate costs related to those services. However, the costs we are charged under the services agreement are not necessarily indicative of the costs that we would incur if we had to provide or contract for those services on a stand-alone basis. With respect to most of the services provided under the services agreement, we believe that it is likely that it would cost us more to provide or contract for them on our own because we benefit from Emdeon’s economies of scale as a larger corporation. In addition, we may be unable to provide some or all these services because of financial or other constraints or be unable to timely implement substitute arrangements on terms that are favorable to us, or at all, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be prevented from issuing stock to raise capital, to effectuate acquisitions or to provide equity incentives to members of our management and Board of Directors Beneficial ownership of at least 80% of the total voting power and value of our capital stock is required in order for Emdeon to continue to include us in its consolidated group for federal income tax purposes, and beneficial ownership of at least 80% of the total voting power of our capital stock and 80% of each class of any non-voting capital stock that we may issue is required in order for Emdeon to effect a tax-free split-off, spin-off or other similar transaction. As of the date of this Annual Report, Emdeon does not intend or plan to undertake a split-off or spin-off of our capital stock to Emdeon’s shareholders or to deconsolidate us from Emdeon’s consolidated group. Under the terms of the tax sharing agreement that we have entered into with Emdeon, however, we have agreed that we will not knowingly take or fail to take any action that could reasonably be expected to preclude Emdeon’s ability to undertake a tax-free split-off or spin-off. This may prevent us from issuing additional equity securities to raise capital, to effectuate acquisitions or to provide management or director equity incentives. If certain transactions occur with respect to our capital stock or Emdeon’s capital stock, we may be unable to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits to reduce our income taxes As of December 31, 2005, we had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $643 million for federal income tax purposes and federal tax credits of approximately $1.7 million. If certain transactions occur with respect to our capital stock or Emdeon’s capital stock, including issuances, redemptions, recapitalizations, exercises of options, conversions of convertible debt, purchases or sales by 5%-or-greater shareholders and similar transactions, that result in a cumulative change of more than 50% of the ownership of our capital stock, taking into account indirect changes in ownership of our stock as a result of changes in ownership in or Emdeon’s capital stock, over a three-year period (including a period commencing prior to the IPO), as determined under rules prescribed by the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and applicable Treasury regulations, an annual limitation would be imposed with respect to our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and federal tax credits against any taxable income that we achieve in future periods. As of the date of this Annual Report, Emdeon has indicated that it has no current intention to sell or otherwise dispose of its Class B Common Stock. However, Emdeon is not subject to any contractual obligation to retain any of its Class B Common Stock, except that it has agreed not to sell or otherwise dispose of any of our common stock for a period of 180 days ending on March 27, 2006, without the prior written consent of the representatives of the underwriters, as described in the section entitled “Underwriting” in our IPO Prospectus. Moreover, there can be no assurance that limitations on the use of our net operating loss carryforwards and federal tax credits will not occur as a result of changes in the ownership of Emdeon’s capital stock (which changes may be beyond the control of us and Emdeon). We are included in Emdeon’s consolidated tax return and, as a result, both we and Emdeon may use each other’s net operating loss carryforwards Due to provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and applicable Treasury regulations relating to the manner and order in which net operating loss carryforwards are utilized when filing consolidated tax returns, a portion of our net operating loss carryforwards may be required to be utilized by Emdeon before Emdeon would be permitted to utilize its own net operating loss carryforwards. Correspondingly, in some situations, such as where Emdeon’s net operating loss carryforwards were generated first, we may be required to utilize a 41 Table of Contents portion of Emdeon’s net operating loss carryforwards before we would have to utilize our own net operating loss carryforwards. Under our tax sharing agreement with Emdeon, neither we nor Emdeon is obligated to reimburse the other for the tax savings attributable to the utilization of the other party’s net operating loss carryforwards, and furthermore, Emdeon has agreed to compensate us for any use of our net operating losses that may result from certain extraordinary transactions, including a sale of its Business Services or Practice Services operating segments. Accordingly, although we may obtain a benefit if we are required to utilize Emdeon’s net operating loss carryforwards, we may suffer a detriment to the extent that Emdeon is required to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards. The amount of each of our and Emdeon’s net operating loss carryforwards that ultimately could be utilized by the other party will depend on the timing and amount of taxable income earned by us and Emdeon in the future, which we are unable to predict. Correspondingly, we are not able to predict whether we or Emdeon will be able to utilize our respective net operating loss carryforwards before they expire or whether there will be a net benefit to Emdeon or to us. We will be included in Emdeon’s consolidated group for federal income tax purposes and, as a result, may be liable for any shortfall in Emdeon’s federal income tax payments For so long as Emdeon continues to own 80% of the total voting power and value of our capital stock, we will be included in Emdeon’s consolidated group for federal income tax purposes. By virtue of its controlling ownership and our tax sharing agreement with Emdeon, Emdeon effectively controls all our tax decisions. Moreover, notwithstanding the tax sharing agreement, federal tax law provides that each member of a consolidated group is jointly and severally liable for the group’s entire federal income tax obligation. Thus, to the extent Emdeon or other members of the group fail to make any federal income tax payments required of them by law, we would be liable for the shortfall. Similar principles generally apply for income tax purposes in some state, local and foreign jurisdictions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 