Item 1A. Risk Factors Described below and throughout this report are certain risks that the Company’s management believes are applicable to the Company’s business and the industry in which it operates. If any of the described events occur, the 8 Table of Contents Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, or access to capital could be materially adversely affected. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Before purchasing our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information in this report. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Risks Related to Our Business We are subject to the cyclical nature of the markets in which we compete and downturns adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The markets in which we compete are highly cyclical and characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence, price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. Historically, these markets have experienced significant downturns often connected with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both component suppliers and electronic equipment manufacturers, and/or declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of selling prices. Our industry depends on the continued growth of the electronics industry and on end-user demand for our customers’ products. Economic downturns have often had an adverse effect upon manufacturers and end-users of electronic products. The timing of new product developments, the lifecycle of existing electronic products, and the level of acceptance and growth of new products can also affect demand for our products. Downturns in the markets we serve could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products. Additionally, due to changing conditions, our customers have experienced and may in the future experience periods of excess inventory which could have a significant adverse impact on our sales. During an industry downturn, there is also a higher risk that some of our trade receivables would be uncollectible and that our inventory would decrease in value. We cannot predict the timing or the severity of the cycles within our industry. In particular, it is difficult to predict how long and to what levels any industry upturn or downturn and/or general economic weakness will last or be exacerbated by other factors. The current worldwide economic downturn adversely affected sales of products in end markets served by our customers which adversely affected demand for our products. While there has been improvement in industry conditions since the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we had experienced significant declines in demand for our products during several quarters immediately preceding the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. While demand increased during fiscal 2010, there can be no assurance as to when and if, or to what extent, the demand for our products will increase or decrease in future periods. Reduced demand for our products can have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. Our historical operating results have been subject to substantial fluctuations and we may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future operating results. Moreover, changes in end-user demand for the products sold by any individual OEM customer can have a rapid and disproportionate effect on demand for our products from that customer in any given period, particularly if the OEM customer has accumulated excess inventories of products purchased from us. We have experienced quarterly losses in the past and may experience periodic losses in the future. Our results of operations for any particular period may not be indicative of our future results. There can be no assurance that our net sales and results of operations will not be materially and adversely affected in the future due to changes in demand from individual customers or cyclical changes in the industries utilizing our products. As a result, our results of operations for any particular period may not be indicative of our future results. We have experienced quarterly losses in the past. As we continue to expend substantial funds for engineering, research and development projects, enhancements to sales and marketing efforts and to otherwise operate our business, there can be no assurance that we will be profitable on a quarterly basis in the future. 9 Table of Contents Declines in memory component prices and our average selling prices may result in declines in our net sales and gross profit and could have a material adverse affect on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. Our industry is highly competitive and characterized by historical declines in average selling prices. Our average selling prices may decline due to several factors including general declines in demand for our products, and excess supply of DRAM and flash memory components as a result of overcapacity caused by increased manufacturing efficiencies, new manufacturing processes and manufacturing capacity expansions by component suppliers. In the past, transitions to smaller design geometries and other factors causing overcapacity in memory markets have led to significant increases in the worldwide supply of memory components. If not accompanied by increases in demand, these supply increases usually result in significant declines in component prices which in turn lead to declines in the average selling prices of our products. During periods of overcapacity, our net sales may decline if we do not increase sales of existing products or fail to introduce and sell new products in quantities sufficient to offset declines in selling prices. Our efforts to increase sales or to introduce new products to offset the impact of declines in average selling prices may not be successful. Furthermore, our competitors and customers also impose significant pricing pressures on us. These declines in average selling prices have in the past and may again in the future, have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. Declines in prices could also affect the valuation of our inventory which could result in inventory write-downs and could harm our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. Declines in average selling prices might also enable OEMs to pre-install higher density memory modules into new systems at existing price points thereby reducing the demand for future memory upgrades. In addition, our net sales and gross profit may be negatively affected by shifts in our product mix during periods of declining average selling prices. Sales to a limited number of customers represent a significant portion of our net sales, and the loss of any key customer or key program would materially harm our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. Because of our dependence on a limited number of key customers, the loss of a major customer (or loss of a key program with a major customer), or any significant reduction in orders by a major customer would materially reduce our net sales and gross profit and adversely affect our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. We expect that sales to relatively few customers will continue to account for a significant percentage of our net sales for the foreseeable future, however there can be no assurance that any of these customers or any of our other customers will continue to utilize our products or our services at current levels. Although we have master agreements with one or more key customers, these agreements govern the terms and conditions of the relationship and may not contain requirements to purchase minimum volumes. Since a large percentage of our sales are to a small number of customers that are primarily large OEMs, these customers are able to exert, have exerted, and we expect they will continue to exert, pressure on us to make price concessions which concessions can adversely affect our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. Our principal customers include major OEMs which compete in the computing, networking, communications, printer, storage and industrial markets. For fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, our ten largest OEM customers accounted for 69%, 64% and 71% of net sales, respectively. In fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, Hewlett-Packard accounted for 22%, 28% and 39% of our net sales, respectively. From fiscal 2008 to 2009, we experienced a significant decrease in our overall sales to Hewlett-Packard as a result of a decline in overall economic conditions combined with the customer utilizing more standard products in their high-end server business as replacements for the specialty memory products we sell to them. We anticipate that this specialty memory business will continue to decline further in the foreseeable future, as it did in fiscal 2010. We expect to continue to offset these declines with increased sales into Hewlett-Packard’s Brazil PC business. In fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, Cisco Systems accounted for 16%, 13% and 12% of our net sales, respectively. In fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, Dell accounted for 14%, 9% and 6% of our net sales, respectively. During these periods, no other customers accounted for more than 10% of our total net sales. 10 Table of Contents Our customers are primarily in the computing, networking, communications, printer, storage and industrial markets, and the current and future fluctuations in demand in these markets may adversely affect sales of our products. Sales of our products are dependent upon demand in the markets served by our customers. We may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future operating results due to factors affecting these markets. From time to time, each of these markets has experienced downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, declines in general economic conditions. A continual decline or significant shortfall in demand in any one of these markets could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and therefore a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Customer demand is difficult to accurately forecast and, as a result, we may be unable to optimally match purchasing and production to meet customer demand which in turn can have an adverse impact on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. In most cases we do not obtain long-term purchase orders or commitments from our customers but instead we work with our customers to develop non-binding estimates or forecasts of future requirements. Utilizing these non-binding estimates or forecasts, we make significant decisions based on our estimates of customer requirements including determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept, production scheduling, component purchasing and procurement commitments, personnel and production facility needs and other resource requirements. A variety of conditions, both specific to each individual customer and generally affecting each customer’s industry, will frequently cause customers to cancel, reduce or delay orders that were either previously made or anticipated. Generally, customers may cancel, reduce or delay purchase orders and commitments without penalty. The short-term and flexible nature of commitments by many of our customers and the possibility of unexpected changes in demand for their products, reduces our ability to accurately estimate future customer requirements. On occasion, customers may require rapid increases in production which can challenge our resources and can reduce profit margins. We may not have sufficient capacity at any given time to meet our customers’ demands. Downturns in the markets in which our customers compete can, and have, caused our customers to significantly reduce the amount of products ordered from us or to cancel existing orders leading to lower utilization of our facilities. This in turn can cause us to have more inventory than we need and can result in inventory write-downs or write-offs which could have a negative effect on our gross profit, our results of operations and our financial condition. Additionally, as many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, reduction in customer demand would have an adverse effect on our net sales, gross profit, results of operations and financial condition. Worldwide economic conditions and other factors may adversely affect our operations, cause fluctuations in demand for our products and have a material adverse impact on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. Uncertainty in global economic conditions poses a risk to the overall economy, as consumers and businesses have deferred and may continue to defer purchases in response to tighter credit and less discretionary spending. In the past, economic slowdowns in the United States and worldwide have adversely affected sales of products in end markets served by our customers which, in turn, adversely affects demand for our products. Declines in the worldwide semiconductor market or a future decline in economic conditions or consumer confidence would likely decrease the overall demand for our products which could have a material adverse effect on our business. More generally, various events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility to the U.S. and the worldwide economies. Any such occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If demand for our products fluctuates as a result of economic conditions or for other reasons, our revenue and gross margin could be adversely affected. Other factors that could cause demand for our products to fluctuate include: • a downturn in the server, PC and computing, networking, storage and/or communications industries; • changes in consumer confidence caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the credit market, expectations for employment and inflation, and energy prices; 11 Table of Contents • changes in the level of customers’ components inventory; • competitive pressures, including pricing pressures, from companies that have competing products, architectures, manufacturing technologies, and marketing programs; • changes in customer product needs; • strategic actions taken by our competitors; and • market acceptance of our products. In response to strengthening market conditions at the end of fiscal 2009 and during fiscal 2010, we have recently made significant investments and expect to continue to invest to increase capacity. If product demand decreases, our manufacturing or assembly and test capacity could be under-utilized, and we may be required to record an impairment on our long-lived assets, including facilities and equipment, as well as intangible assets, which would increase our expenses. In addition, if product demand decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write-off inventory or record under-utilization charges, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin and/or our profitability. In the long term, if product demand increases, we may not be able to add manufacturing or assembly and test capacity fast enough to meet market demand. These changes in demand for our products, and changes in our customers’ product needs, could have a variety of negative effects on our competitive position and our financial results, and, in certain cases, may reduce our revenue, increase our costs, lower our gross margin percentage, or require us to recognize impairments of our assets. A recurrence of the recent financial crisis or a deterioration of recently-improved financial conditions could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The recent financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the going concern threats to financial institutions resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in credit, fixed income, and equity markets. These conditions caused consumers and businesses to defer purchases in response to tighter credit and less discretionary spending, adversely affected consumer confidence and sales of products in end markets served by our customers and adversely affected demand for our products. While there has been improvement in the credit markets, these markets could tighten up again in the future. Additionally, there could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products resulting in lower net sales, customer insolvencies and increased risk in collecting customer receivables; and increased expense of or inability to obtain short-term financing of our operations. Furthermore, in the United States and abroad, financial markets continue to experience significant volatility. Remedial fiscal and monetary measures are being undertaken by governments and central banks across the world. The short and long term effects of these measures are uncertain. These factors could have a negative effect on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. Order cancellations or reductions, product returns, selling price decreases and product obsolescence could result in lower net sales and substantial inventory write-downs or write-offs which in turn can have a material adverse impact on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. In the past, we have experienced cancellations of orders and fluctuations in order levels from period to period and expect that we could experience such cancellations and fluctuations in the future. Certain customer purchase orders may be cancelled and order volume levels can be changed, cancelled or delayed with limited or no notice or penalties. The replacement of such purchase orders with new orders cannot be assured. To the extent we manufacture products or make purchases in anticipation of future demand that does not materialize, or in the event a customer cancels or reduces outstanding orders, we could experience an unanticipated increase in our inventory. While we have not had material inventory write-downs or write-offs in recent years, we have had in the past and expect we could again in the future, have inventory write-downs and/or write-offs due to obsolescence, excess quantities and declines in market value below our costs. These occurrences would have a negative impact on our results of operations and our financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Our logistics business requires us to make inventory purchases based on customer forecasts which can be unpredictable and which can in turn cause us to have significant increases in inventory from time to time resulting in a negative impact on our cash flow and possibly resulting in inventory write-downs or write-offs which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and our financial condition. Our logistics business requires us to make significant inventory purchases based on customer forecasts and/or customer purchase orders. In most instances, purchase orders can be rescheduled at the customers’ option, often times without penalty. When actual consumption does not meet the customers’ forecast or the customers’ purchase orders, it will result in unanticipated and sometimes significant increases in our inventory. Additionally, some of our logistics transactions contemplate extended periods of inventory management. We believe that our programs generally obligate customers to purchase all of the logistics inventory with minimal exposure to price reductions, and typically include periodic carrying charges to be paid by the customers. There can be no assurance, however, that the customers will comply with these obligations. If a large customer of our logistics business fails to consume the inventory that we purchase for it, this could result in significant inventory write-downs or write-offs and would have a material, adverse impact on our cash flow, our results of operations and our financial condition. At the end of the last four fiscal quarters, logistics inventory (including inventory specifically requested by customers) ranged between 36% and 42% of total inventory. New product development, particularly our solid state storage products, requires significant investment and if we fail to develop new or enhanced products and introduce them in a timely manner, this could have a material adverse impact on our competitiveness, our results of operations and our financial condition. The markets in which we compete are subject to rapid technological change, product obsolescence, frequent new product introductions and feature enhancements, changes in end-user requirements, and evolving industry standards. Our ability to successfully compete in these markets and to continue to grow our business depends in significant part upon our ability to develop, introduce and sell new and enhanced products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and to anticipate and respond to changing customer requirements. More specifically, the solid state storage industry is an emerging industry with several different technology platforms each of which has significant costs of entry. We are a new entrant into the solid state storage industry and have limited experience in this market. We have experienced, and may experience in the future, delays and unanticipated expenses in the development and introduction of new products. A failure to develop products with required feature sets or performance standards, or a delay as short as a few months in bringing a new product to market could significantly reduce our net sales which would have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. Delays in the development, introduction and qualification of new products could provide a competitor a first-to-market opportunity and allow a competitor to achieve greater market share or permit a customer to cancel orders without penalty. Defects or errors found in our products after commencement of commercial shipment could result in delays in market acceptance of these products. Lack of market acceptance for our new products for any reason would jeopardize our ability to recoup substantial research and development expenditures, hurt our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our future product development efforts will be successful or result in products that gain market acceptance. We have supported in the past and expect in the future to support new technologies and emerging markets. If these new technologies and emerging markets fail to gain acceptance or grow, this would have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. In particular, we have made and expect to continue to make in the future, significant investments in SSDs and other solid state storage products through research and development and other expenditures. While we believe that our investments in solid state storage will enable us to participate in several important growth markets, there is significant competition in these markets and there can be no assurance that the products we develop and introduce will be timely, will gain any market acceptance or will result in any significant increase in our net sales. If these investments fail to provide the expected returns this would have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Transitions to newer technologies can result in inventory write-offs, product shortages and can cause our manufacturing equipment to become obsolete in a shorter period of time than the initially estimated useful life causing us to incur impairment charges or accelerate depreciation rates, all of which can have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our industry is highly competitive and characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence, evolving standards and often short product lifecycles. If the lifecycle of a product is driven to a shorter end as a result of the introduction of a new technology, we may be forced to transition our manufacturing capabilities to a new configuration quicker than originally planned. This can result in increased capital and other expenditures. This can also cause decreases in demand for the older technology products and our manufacturing or assembly and test capacity becoming under-utilized. As a result we may be required to record an impairment on our long-lived assets, including facilities and equipment, as well as intangible assets, which would increase our expenses. For example, the accelerated switch from DDR2 to DDR3 in Brazil caused a shorter useful life for DDR2 equipment which resulted in additional depreciation expense of $1.2 million in fiscal 2010. In addition, if product demand decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write-off inventory or record under-utilization charges, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin and/or our profitability. When new technologies are introduced, the capacity to manufacture the new products often cannot meet the demand and product shortages can arise. If our suppliers over commit to us and to our competitors as to how much product demand they can support, we may not be able to fill customer orders or participate in new markets as they emerge. Each of these factors can have an adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. Our dependence on a small number of sole or limited source suppliers subjects us to certain risks and our results of operations would be materially adversely affected if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies in a timely manner. We are dependent upon a small number of sole or limited source suppliers for certain materials, including critical components, we use in manufacturing our products. We purchase almost all of our materials from our suppliers on a purchase order basis and generally do not have long-term commitments from suppliers. Our suppliers are not required to supply us with any minimum quantities and there is no assurance that our suppliers will supply the quantities of components we may need to meet our production goals. Our major suppliers include Hynix, Micron, Elpida and Samsung. The markets in which we operate have experienced, and may experience in the future, shortages in components. These shortages cause some suppliers to place their customers, including us, on component allocation. As a result, we may not be able to obtain the components that we need to fill customer orders. If any of our suppliers experience quality control or intellectual property infringement problems, we may not be able to fill customer orders. Furthermore, our products that utilize that supplier’s components may be disqualified by one or more of our customers and we may not be able to fill their orders. The inability to fill customer orders could cause delays, customer cancellations, disruptions or reductions in product shipments or require product redesigns and/or re-qualifications which could, in turn, damage relationships with current or prospective customers, increase costs or prices and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A disruption in or termination of our supply relationship with any of our significant suppliers or our inability to develop relationships with new suppliers, if required, would cause delays, disruptions or reductions in product manufacturing and shipments or require product redesigns which could damage relationships with our customers, increase our costs or the prices of our products and materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. An increasing number of our OEM customers may design standard modules into their products which could reduce demand for our higher-priced customized memory solutions. In an effort to reduce costs and assure supply of their memory module requirements, an increasing number of our OEM customers have been designing JEDEC standard modules into their products. Although we also manufacture JEDEC modules, this trend could further reduce the demand for our higher priced customized memory solutions which in turn would have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial 14 Table of Contents condition. In addition, when customers utilizing custom memory solutions choose to adopt a JEDEC standard instead of a custom module, that might allow new competitors to participate in a share of our customers’ memory module business that the customers currently purchase from us. The flash memory market is constantly evolving and increasingly competitive, and we may not have rights to manufacture and sell particular products utilizing certain flash formats, or we may be required to pay a royalty to sell products utilizing these formats. The flash-based storage market is constantly undergoing rapid technological change and evolving industry standards. Many consumer devices, such as digital cameras, PDAs and smartphones, have already transitioned to certain flash memory formats, such as the Memory Stick, Commercial Grade SD, Micro SD and xD Picture Card formats which we do not currently manufacture in the United States and do not have rights to manufacture in the United States. Although we do not currently support the consumer flash market, it is possible that certain OEM customers of ours may choose to adopt these formats. Additionally, we plan to support the consumer flash market in Brazil beginning in fiscal 2011. If we manufacture flash memory products utilizing these formats, we may be required to secure licenses to give us the right to manufacture such products and/or enter into arrangements to have licensed subcontract assembly facilities produce these products, which may not be available to us on reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to supply certain flash memory products at competitive prices or at all, our net sales and results of operations could be adversely impacted and our customers might cancel orders or seek other suppliers to replace us. While we do not believe that we need any licenses that we do not currently have, it is possible that third parties may claim that we do, which claims could result in additional expenses which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our growth initiatives require significant capital investments and we cannot be assured that we will realize a positive return on these investments. Our ongoing business initiatives require capital investment. For example, during fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, we made significant capital expenditures to expand production, test and packaging capacity in our Atibaia, Brazil facility and we plan to continue to invest in Brazil and elsewhere. If our expected returns on these investments are not achieved, it could have a negative effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. Industry consolidation and company failures could adversely affect our business by reducing the number of potential customers, increasing our reliance on our existing key customers and reducing the competitiveness of our supplier base. Some participants in the industries which we serve have merged and/or been acquired and this trend may continue. In addition, there have been company failures among both our customer and supplier base. Industry consolidation and company failures will likely decrease the number of potential significant customers for our products and services. The decrease in the number of significant customers will increase our reliance on key customers and, due to the increased size of these companies, may negatively impact our bargaining position and thus our profit margins. Consolidation and company failures in some of our customers’ industries may result in the loss of customers. The loss of, or a reduced role with, key customers due to industry consolidation and company failures could negatively impact our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. Additionally, consolidation and company failures in our supplier base could reduce our purchasing alternatives and reduce the competition for our business resulting in higher cost of goods and less availability of components which would have a negative impact on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. We may make acquisitions of companies and/or technologies which involve numerous risks. If we are not successful in integrating the technologies, operations and personnel of acquired businesses or fail to realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, our business, our results of operations and our financial condition may be adversely affected. As part of our business and growth strategy, we may acquire or make significant investments in businesses, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offering, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. For example, in March 2008 we 15 Table of Contents acquired Adtron Corporation, a designer and supplier of SSDs. Any acquisitions or investments would expose us to the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of businesses or technologies. Such risks include, among others: • problems integrating the purchased operations, technologies or products; • unanticipated costs or expenses associated with an acquisition or investment including write-offs of goodwill or other intangible assets; • negative effects on profitability resulting from an acquisition or investment; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have little or no prior experience and markets with complex government regulations; • loss of key employees of the acquired business; and • litigation arising from an acquired company’s operations. Problems encountered in connection with an acquisition could divert the attention of management, utilize scarce corporate resources, and otherwise harm our business. If we make any future acquisitions, we could issue stock that would dilute our shareholders’ percentage ownership, incur substantial debt, expend cash and reduce our cash reserves, or assume additional liabilities. Furthermore, acquisitions may require material charges and could result in adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation, deferred compensation charges, liabilities under earn-out provisions, the amortization of amounts related to deferred compensation and identifiable purchased intangible assets or impairment of goodwill, any of which could negatively impact our results of operations. We are unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisition candidate will become available or the likelihood that any acquisition will be completed. Even if we do find suitable acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to consummate the acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms or at all, or may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions we do undertake. We may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position because of the intense competition in the markets we serve. We conduct business in markets characterized by intense competition, rapid technological change, unpredictable supply and demand cycles, constant price pressures and evolving industry standards. Our competitors include many large domestic and international companies that have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, greater name recognition, broader product lines, lower cost structures, and longer-standing relationships with customers and suppliers than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond better to new or emerging technologies or standards and to changes in customer requirements. Further, some of our competitors are in a better financial and marketing position from which to influence industry acceptance of a particular product standard or competing technology than we are. Our competitors may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products, and may be able to deliver competitive products at a lower price than we can. We compete against semiconductor suppliers that maintain captive memory module and flash card production capabilities, including Hynix, Micron, Samsung, Elpida and Nanya. Other primary competitors in the memory module and flash card industry include NetList, STEC, Viking InterWorks (a Sanmina-SCI company), SanDisk, Western Digital, Unigen and Wintec. In Brazil, we face some of the same competitors as we do elsewhere through imports of DRAM modules. We also face competition from several local DRAM module manufacturers in Brazil. We are not aware of any current competitors for our packaging business in Brazil. Import duties and local content requirements in Brazil give us an advantage over companies that import DRAM modules, or import DRAM components to build modules. As the local market grows, competition is likely to increase and may have a negative impact on our results of operations in Brazil. The non-volatile memory, or flash market has attracted numerous competitors, both large and small, from around the world. Entrants generally target specific segments within the flash or solid state storage markets. Large manufacturers of solid state storage products such as Intel, Micron, Samsung and SanDisk have targeted the client/ 16 Table of Contents consumer laptop and PC markets, while smaller vendors such as Apacer, PQI, and Transcend have selected similar markets but on a smaller scale. As we enter the market for enterprise SSDs, we are and will be competing with Intel, Samsung, Hitachi, Seagate, STEC, Micron, Toshiba, Western Digital, Pliant and Fusion-io. As we enter the markets for flash cards, SD Cards and MicroSD Cards in Brazil, we will be facing competition from SanDisk, Viking InterWorks (a Sanmina-SCI company), Kingston and several other established manufacturers whose products are imported, however, we are not aware of any current competitors manufacturing these products in Brazil. We expect that import duties and local content requirements in Brazil give us an advantage over companies that import these card products. Our primary competitors in the defense, aerospace, industrial, medical, transportation, and industrial automation markets are BiTMICRO, SuperTalent and STEC. In the industrial and telecom markets, our primary competitors for embedded flash are STEC, Western Digital and Viking InterWorks (a Sanmina-SCI company). We face competition from existing competitors and expect to face new and emerging companies that may enter our existing or future markets with similar or alternative products, which may be less costly or provide additional features. We also face competition from current and prospective customers that evaluate our capabilities against the merits of manufacturing products internally. Competition may also arise due to the development of cooperative relationships among our current and potential competitors and/or suppliers or third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors and/or suppliers may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We expect that our competitors will continue to improve the performance of their current products, reduce their prices, and introduce new products that may offer greater performance and improved pricing, any of which could cause a decline in sales or market acceptance of our products. In addition, our competitors may develop enhancements to, or future generations of, competitive products that may render our technology or products obsolete or uncompetitive. To remain competitive, we must continue to provide technologically advanced products and manufacturing services, maintain high quality levels, offer flexible delivery schedules, deliver finished products on a reliable basis, reduce manufacturing and testing costs, and compete favorably on the basis of price. Our inability to meet any of these requirements could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, gross margins, results of operations and our financial condition. In addition, increased competitive pressure has led in the past and may continue to lead to intensified price competition resulting in lower net sales and gross margins which could negatively impact our financial performance. Our net sales are impacted by achieving design wins and qualifications of our products into commercially successful OEM systems and the failure to achieve design wins and qualifications or the failure of OEM customers to incorporate our products into their systems could adversely affect our operating results and prospects. Our products are often incorporated into our OEM customers’ systems at the design stage. As a result, we rely on OEMs to select our product designs, which we refer to as design wins, and then to qualify our products for production buys. We often incur significant expenditures in the development of a new product without any assurance that an OEM will select our product for design into its system. Additionally, in some instances, we are dependent on third parties to obtain or provide information that we need to achieve a design win. These third parties may not supply this information to us on a timely basis, if at all. Furthermore, even if an OEM designs one of our products into its system, we cannot be assured that they will qualify or use our product in production, that the OEM’s product will be commercially successful, or that we will receive significant orders as a result of that design win or qualification. Our OEM customers are typically not obligated to purchase our products even if we get a design win. If we are unable to achieve design wins or if our OEM customers’ systems incorporating our products are not commercially successful, this could have an adverse effect on our net sales, our results of operations and our financial condition. Our business is dependent upon our OEM customers continuing to outsource the design and manufacturing of value added subsystems. Historically, OEMs designed and manufactured subsystems in-house. Many OEMs now outsource the design and manufacturing of subsystems. Portions of our business are dependent upon our OEM customers continuing to outsource the design and manufacturing of these subsystems. Our OEM customers have the requisite capabilities 17 Table of Contents and capital resources to bring the design and manufacturing of these subsystems in-house and their doing so would adversely impact our net sales, our results of operations and our financial condition. Our future success is dependent on our ability to retain key personnel, including our executive officers, and to attract qualified personnel. If we lose the services of these individuals or are unable to attract new talent, our business may be adversely affected. Our future operating results depend in significant part upon the continued contributions of our key technical and senior management personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. We are particularly dependent on the continued service of Iain MacKenzie, our president and chief executive officer, and Barry Zwarenstein, our senior vice president and chief financial officer. Our future operating results also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract, train and retain qualified management, manufacturing and quality assurance, engineering, finance, marketing, sales and support personnel. We are continually recruiting such personnel in various parts of the world. However, competition for such personnel can be strong, and there is no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel now or in the future. In addition, particularly in the high-technology industry, the value of stock options, restricted stock unit grants or other stock-based compensation is an important element in the retention of employees. Declines in the value of our stock could adversely affect our ability to retain employees and we may have to take additional steps, as we did with our employee stock option exchange in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 and the granting of restricted stock units in fiscal 2009 and 2010, to make the equity component of our compensation packages more attractive in order to attract and retain employees. The loss of any key employee, the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, our inability to attract, train and retain skilled employees as needed or the inability of our key employees to expand, train and manage our employee base as needed, could adversely affect our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. We rely, in part, on third-party sales representatives to assist in selling our products, and the failure of these representatives to perform as expected could reduce our future sales. Sales of our products to some of our OEM customers are accomplished through the efforts of third-party sales representatives. We are unable to predict the extent to which these third-party sales representatives will be successful in marketing and selling our products. Moreover, many of these third-party sales representatives also market and sell competing products and may more aggressively pursue sales of our competitors’ products. Our third-party sales representatives may terminate their relationships with us at any time on short notice. Our future performance may also depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain additional third-party sales representatives that will be able to market and support our products effectively, especially in markets in which we have not previously sold our products. If we cannot retain our current third-party sales representatives or recruit additional or replacement third-party sales representatives, our net sales, our results of operations and our financial condition could be negatively impacted. Disruption of our operations at our manufacturing facilities would substantially harm our business. A disruption of our manufacturing operations, resulting from sustained process abnormalities, human error, government intervention, power failures, fires, or other such circumstances, could cause us to cease or limit our manufacturing operations and consequently adversely impact our business. Since a large percentage of our production is done in a small number of facilities, a disruption to operations could have a material adverse impact on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. A disruption of our manufacturing operations resulting from ramp-up related challenges such as obtaining sufficient raw materials, hiring of qualified factory personnel, installation and efficient operation of new equipment, and management and coordination of our logistics networks within our global operations could cause us to cease, delay, or limit our manufacturing operations and consequently adversely impact our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. As a result of our acquisition of Adtron, a small portion of our sales are dependent on defense-related companies and changes in military spending levels and patterns could negatively affect us. Our current orders from defense-related companies depend on factors that are outside of our control. Reductions or changes in military spending could have an adverse effect on our sales and profit. For instance, 18 Table of Contents government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress typically appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. As a result, at the beginning of a major program, a contract is typically only partially funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as Congress makes appropriations available for future fiscal years. As political representatives change, a difference in philosophy and a changing economic climate could reduce or change appropriations. We believe that because of the unexpected length and cost of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and as part of a broad overhaul of U.S. priorities, funds for weapons and equipment may be reallocated away from high technology programs to areas that we do not supply, such as personnel and infrastructure. In addition, the U.S. defense industry is moving toward the purchase of commercial off-the-shelf products rather than those designed and manufactured to higher military specifications. To the extent that our products are replaced or materially offset by commercial off-the-shelf products, our business would suffer. Even if military spending continues to increase, delays and/or shifts in military spending could negatively affect our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. The competitive bid process for, and the terms and conditions of, government contracts may have a negative effect on our business and our results of operations. We have in the past and will likely in the future attempt to obtain U.S. government contracts and subcontracts through the process of competitive bidding. The competitive bid process typically requires us to estimate costs and the timing for completion of projects. If we do not accurately estimate the costs associated with a given project our profitability may be negatively affected or we could potentially even lose money. If we do not accurately estimate the timing required to complete a project we may be penalized monetarily or our reputation may be impaired. In addition, the competitive bid process often requires substantial and focused allocation of resources, including management’s time, with no guarantee of success or award of the contract. Ultimately, our sales and profits connected to competitive bidding on U.S. government contracts and subcontracts are unpredictable and are subject to many factors that are beyond our control, as well as trends and events that are difficult to predict. U.S. government contracts and subcontracts also have significantly demanding provisions which can be difficult to comply with and include audit provisions which can result in unanticipated expenses, distractions and utilization of resources. All of these factors can have a negative impact on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls or discover material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or detect fraud, which could harm our business, our results of operations and our financial condition and the trading price of our ordinary shares. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to prepare financial statements that are presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and are important in our effort to detect and prevent financial fraud. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 we are required to periodically evaluate the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls. As our business evolves, these evaluations may result in the conclusion that enhancements, modifications or changes to our internal controls are necessary or desirable. While management evaluates the effectiveness of our internal controls on a regular basis, and our independent registered public accounting firm has opined that we have maintained in all material respects, effective internal controls over financial reporting for the filing period covered by this report including fiscal 2010, all internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation or the detection or prevention of fraud and we cannot assure you that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in our internal controls in the future. If it is determined that we have a material weakness in our internal controls or we fail to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, this could have a material negative impact on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition and could result in the loss of investor confidence and/or a decline in our share price. 19 Table of Contents Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other regulations and requirements, including corporate governance and public disclosure, is costly and may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, SEC regulations and NASDAQ rules, have required most public companies, including us, to devote additional internal and external resources to various governance, compliance and disclosure matters. As a result, we have in the past and will in the future, incur significant costs, which may be disproportionate to our size, on additional staff and outside professionals to assist us with these efforts. These costs have included increased auditing and accounting fees associated with preparing the attestation report on our internal controls over financial reporting as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, new and changing laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, as well as modifications by the various regulating bodies. The way in which they are applied and implemented may change over time, which could result in even higher costs to address and implement revisions to compliance, disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest the necessary resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards. If we were to identify any issues in complying with any requirements, such as the discovery by management or our independent public accounting firm of a material weakness in our internal controls, we could incur additional costs and expend significant management attention rectifying such issues. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice or otherwise, our reputation may be harmed and we may be required to incur additional expenses. If we are not able to maintain compliance with the requirements of Section 404 or other requirements in a timely manner, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or the NASDAQ. Any such action could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, our financial condition or the market price of our ordinary shares. Changes in, or interpretations of, tax regulations or rates, or changes in the geographic dispersion of our revenues, or changes in other tax benefits, may adversely affect our income, value-added and other taxes, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and financial condition. Our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities in the United States and abroad; adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in tax laws or regulations or tax rates; changes in the interpretation or application of tax laws; changes in generally accepted accounting principles; changes in tax regulations or rates; increases or decreases in the amount of revenue or earnings in countries with particularly high or low statutory tax rates; or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. While we enjoy and expect to continue to enjoy beneficial tax treatment in certain of our foreign locations, most notably Brazil, Malaysia and Puerto Rico, we are subject to meeting specific conditions in order to receive the beneficial treatment. Additionally, the beneficial treatments need to be renewed periodically and are subject to change. We are subject to tax examination in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from current examinations. We believe such estimates to be reasonable, however there can be no assurance that the final determination of any examinations will be in the amounts of our estimates. Any significant variance in the results of an examination as compared to our estimates, or any failure to renew or continue to receive any beneficial tax treatment in any of our foreign locations, or any increase in our future effective tax rates due to any of the factors set forth above or otherwise, could reduce net income and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, our cash flow and our financial condition. On October 3, 2008, our subsidiary in Brazil (“SMART Brazil”) received a notice from the Sao Paulo State Treasury Office providing an assessment for the collection of State Value-Added Tax (“ICMS”) as well as interest and penalties (collectively the “Assessment”) related to the transfer of ICMS credits during 2004 between two Brazilian entities. These transfers occurred prior to the acquisition in April 2004 of SMART from Solectron 20 Table of Contents Corporation (“Solectron”). Solectron was subsequently acquired by Flextronics International Ltd. (“Flextronics”). We believe that the Assessment is subject to indemnification by Solectron to SMART pursuant to the Transaction Agreement dated February 11, 2004 dealing with the acquisition of SMART from Solectron. We notified Solectron and Flextronics of the Assessment, and under the terms of the Transaction Agreement, Flextronics elected to assume responsibility to contest the Assessment on SMART Brazil’s behalf. We have been advised that the efforts to contest the Assessment in the administrative level have been unsuccessful and on June 16, 2010, we were notified that the last administrative appeal was not admitted, thereby exhausting all administrative appeals. We have also been advised by tax counsel that additional appeals can only be made in a judicial proceeding. As of August 27, 2010, our Consolidated Balance Sheet reflects both a liability for the Assessment and a corresponding indemnity receivable for approximately $4.1 million (or 7.2 million Brazilian Real or “BRL”). While we believe that the Assessment would be subject to the indemnity obligations of Solectron and/or Flextronics, there can be no absolute assurance that Solectron and/or Flextronics will comply with their contractual indemnity obligations in this regard. Since 2004, the Sao Paulo State tax authorities have granted SMART Brazil a tax benefit to defer and eventually eliminate the payment of ICMS levied on certain imports from independent suppliers. This benefit, known as an ICMS Special Ruling, is subject to renewal every two years and expired on March 31, 2010. SMART Brazil applied for a renewal of this benefit, but the renewal was not granted until August 4, 2010. On June 22, 2010, the Sao Paulo authorities published a regulation allowing companies that applied for a timely renewal of an ICMS Special Ruling, such as SMART Brazil, to continue utilizing the benefit until a final conclusion on the renewal request was rendered. As a result of this publication, SMART Brazil was temporarily allowed to utilize the benefit while it waited for its renewal. From April 1, 2010, when the ICMS benefit lapsed, through June 22, 2010 when the regulation referred to above was published, SMART Brazil was required to pay the ICMS taxes upon imports. The payment of ICMS generates tax credits that may be used to offset ICMS obligations generated from sales by SMART Brazil of its products, however, the vast majority of SMART Brazil’s sales in Sao Paulo are either subject to a lower ICMS rate or are made to customers that are entitled to other ICMS benefits that enable them to eliminate the ICMS levied on their purchases of products from SMART Brazil. As a result, from April 1, 2010 through June 22, 2010, SMART Brazil did not have sufficient ICMS collections against which to apply the credits accrued upon payment of the ICMS on SMART Brazil’s imports. Although the renewal has been granted, there is no refund of ICMS tax credits that accumulated during the period we were waiting for the renewal. As of August 27, 2010 the total amount of accumulated ICMS tax credits reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheet was $17.6 million (or 31.0 million BRL), with $11.3 million (or 19.8 million BRL) under other current assets and $6.3 million (or 11.2 million BRL) under other non-current assets. It is expected that $11.3 million of the excess ICMS credits will be recovered during fiscal 2011, with the remainder of $6.3 million being recovered in fiscal 2012. These expectations are based on various estimates including the mix of products and regions where our sales will occur. If these estimates or the mix of products or regions vary, it could take longer than expected to fully utilize the excess ICMS credits accumulated to date. The accumulation of the excess credits had an adverse impact on our cash flow and there can be no absolute assurance that we will be able to fully utilize all of our excess credits. Our plans to establish a corporate research and development center in Brazil may not achieve the results we anticipate which would have an adverse impact on our business, our cash flow, our net income and our financial condition. As part of our plan to increase research and development (“R&D”) activities, we expect to establish a corporate R&D center in Brazil to develop technology to enhance our semiconductor packaging and module manufacturing capabilities, to design and develop new DRAM ICs, memory modules and MicroSD products, and to design and develop our solid state storage products for different interfaces and in different form factors. We expect to leverage our infrastructure in Brazil to utilize certain government incentives to enhance the returns on our investments. Establishing this new corporate R&D center will involve substantial management resources and significant spending and capital investment with no assurance of a satisfactory return. In connection with these R&D activities, we intend to utilize two government investment incentive programs that we expect will increase our competitiveness and enhance our return on investment. The first program, known as “PADIS” (Programa de Apoio do Desenvolvimento Tecnológico da Industria de Semicondutores), is specifically 21 Table of Contents designed to promote the development of a local semiconductor industry. We have applied for and expect to be one of the first companies in Brazil to obtain a designation making us eligible for certain beneficial tax treatment under this new legislation, although there can be no assurance that we will obtain the expected benefits. In order to receive the intended benefits, we will be required to make significant investments in R&D activities which investment amounts are related to our sales volume. Since this is new legislation, its interpretation has not been established and there is a risk that it may be interpreted differently by the Brazilian tax authorities than we anticipate. If we do not make the required investments, or if the Brazilian tax authorities do not agree with our classification of certain expenses as constituting R&D, we may lose the anticipated benefit and be penalized for failing to collect the applicable taxes and as a result, our investment in R&D will not provide the anticipated return. The second program, known as “IT Law — PPB” (Lei da Informática — Processo Produtivo Básico, or Basic Production Process), is a widely utilized and more well established program. PPB is intended to promote local content by allowing qualified PPB companies to sell certain IT products with a reduced rate of the federal value added tax (namely, the IPI) as compared to the rate that is required to be collected by non-PPB suppliers. This treatment provides an incentive for certain customers to purchase from us because they will not be required to pay the regular level of IPI on their purchases. In order to receive the intended treatment, we are again required to make certain investments in R&D activities, which investment amounts are related to our sales volume. If we do not make the required investments, or if the Brazilian tax authorities do not agree with our classification of certain expenses as constituting R&D, we may lose the anticipated beneficial treatment and could be penalized for failing to collect the required IPI from our customers, and as a result, our investment in R&D will not provide the anticipated return. If we make the planed investments and do not receive the intended tax treatments, this could cause a material increase in our expected tax liability and expected effective tax rate, and could have a material adverse impact on our cash flow, our net income and our financial condition. We receive certain beneficial tax treatment as a result of being a Cayman Islands company. We are a Cayman Islands company and operate through subsidiaries in a number of countries throughout the world, including the United States. As a result, income generated in certain non-U.S. subsidiaries is not subject to taxation in the United States. We are subject to changes in tax laws, treaties and regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof in the United States, the Cayman Islands and jurisdictions in which we or any of our subsidiaries operate or are resident. Legislative proposals were introduced in the U.S. that, if enacted into law, could result in us being considered a U.S. company for tax purposes. This could have the effect of subjecting a larger portion of our worldwide income to U.S. taxation than is currently required. While no such laws have been enacted to date, there can be no assurance that they will not be enacted in the future. The impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition will depend upon the specifics of any such law, if it were to be enacted, but is likely not to be material. If our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., we review our long-lived intangible and tangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets may not be recoverable include declines in our stock price and market capitalization or future cash flow projections. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets is determined. For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 we recorded a charge of $3.2 million for goodwill impairment, and in the first two quarters of fiscal 2009, we recorded an aggregate charge of $10.4 million for goodwill impairment. Impairment charges have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. 22 Table of Contents Our indemnification obligations to our customers and suppliers for product defects and other matters could require us to pay substantial damages. A number of our product sales and product purchase agreements provide that we will defend, indemnify and hold harmless our customers and suppliers from damages and costs which may arise from various matters including, without limitation, from product warranty claims or claims for injury or damage resulting from defects in our products. Indemnification obligations could require us to expend significant amounts of money to defend claims and/or to pay damages or settlement amounts. We maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with the use of our products, but our insurance coverage does not cover all types of claims and may not be adequate to cover all or any part of a claim asserted against us. A claim brought against us that is in excess of, or excluded from, our insurance coverage could adversely impact our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. Our operations in foreign countries subject us to political and economic risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. Sales outside of the United States accounted for approximately 70%, 57% and 45% of net sales in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We anticipate that these international sales will continue to constitute a meaningful percentage of our total net sales in future periods. In addition, a significant portion of our product design and manufacturing is currently performed at our facilities in Brazil and Malaysia. As a result, our operations may be subject to certain risks relating to operations in foreign countries, including changes in and compliance with regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers; increased price pressure; timing and availability of export and import licenses; difficulties in accounts receivable collections; difficulties resulting from longer payment cycles; difficulties in protecting our intellectual property; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations; difficulties resulting from different employment regulations; necessity of obtaining government approvals; trade restrictions; work stoppages or other changes in labor conditions; difficulties in managing distributors and sales representatives; seasonal reductions in business activity in some parts of the world; difficulties in obtaining governmental approvals for products that may require certification; challenges in price competitiveness due to local content requirements; difficulties relating to political or economic instability; restrictions and/or taxes on transfers of funds and other assets of our subsidiaries between jurisdictions; difficulties with the repatriation of funds from foreign jurisdictions; foreign currency exchange fluctuations; the burden of complying with a wide variety of complex international laws and treaties; potentially adverse tax consequences and uncertainties relative to regional, political and economic circumstances. We are also subject to the risks associated with the imposition of, and compliance with, legislation and regulations relating to the import or export of military related and/or high technology products and components of such products. We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions upon the importation or exportation of our products or components of such products will be amended or enacted by the U.S. or other countries. Some of our customers’ purchase orders and agreements are governed by international laws which often differ significantly from U.S. laws. Therefore, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights under such agreements, or the rights we have under such agreements may be substantially different from the rights we are afforded under the laws of the United States. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. Our operations in foreign countries are more difficult to manage which may expose us to additional risks that may not exist in the United States, which in turn could have a negative impact on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. A significant portion of our operations are outside of the U.S. at our foreign facilities. Additionally, international sales account for a significant portion of our overall sales. In some of the countries in which we operate or sell our products, it is difficult to recruit, employ and retain qualified personnel to manage and oversee our local operations, sales and other activities. Further, given our executive officers’ lack of physical proximity to some of the local activities and the inherent limitations of cross-border information flow, our executive officers may 23 Table of Contents at times face extra challenges in their ability to effectively oversee the day-to-day management of our international operations. The challenges facing management to effectively recruit, employ and retain qualified personnel and to otherwise effectively manage our international operations could result in compliance, control or other issues that would have a negative impact on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. Worldwide political conditions and threats of terrorist attacks may adversely affect our operations and demand for our products. The occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks may in the future adversely affect demand for our products. In addition, such attacks may negatively affect our operations directly or indirectly and such attacks or other armed conflicts may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. Such attacks may make travel and the transportation of our products more difficult and more expensive, ultimately having a negative effect on our business. Also, any armed conflicts around the world could have an impact on our sales, our supply chain and our ability to deliver products to our customers. Political and economic instability in some regions of the world could also have a negative impact our business. More generally, various events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility to the U.S. and the worldwide economies. Any such occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could cause currency exchange losses, could result in our products becoming relatively more expensive to our overseas customers and could increase our manufacturing costs, each of which could adversely affect our business and our profitability. We are subject to inherent risks attributed to operating in a global economy. Our international sales and our operations in foreign countries expose us to certain risks associated with fluctuating currency values and exchange rates. Because some of our sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, increases in the value of the U.S. dollar could increase the price of our products so that they become relatively more expensive to customers in a particular country, possibly leading to a reduction in sales and profitability in that country. Some of the sales of our products are denominated in foreign currencies. Gains and losses on the conversion to U.S. dollars of accounts receivable arising from such sales, and of other associated monetary assets and liabilities, may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations. We also have costs and expenses that are denominated in foreign currencies, and decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar could result in increases in such costs that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, fluctuating values between the U.S. dollar and other currencies can result in currency gains which are used in the computation of foreign taxes and which can increase foreign taxable income. We do not presently purchase financial instruments to hedge foreign exchange risk, but we may do so in the future. Our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operation and our financial condition. Our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters, including earthquakes, monsoons and floods. For example, our corporate headquarters in Newark, California is located near major earthquake fault lines. Our manufacturing facility in Penang, Malaysia is also prone to natural disasters such as monsoons and floods. In addition, our manufacturing facility in Aguada, Puerto Rico, is located in a hurricane-prone area. In the event of a major earthquake or hurricane, or other natural or manmade disaster, we could experience business interruptions, destruction of facilities and/or loss of life, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. Since a large percentage of our production is done in a small number of facilitates, a disruption to operations could have a material adverse impact on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. 24 Table of Contents Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property, as well as our ability to operate without infringing upon the intellectual property of others. Activities in the area of intellectual property rights, including litigation and various patent processes can cause us to incur substantial expenses that can have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a variety of measures, including trade secret laws, non-disclosure agreements, confidentiality procedures, employee non-disclosure and invention assignment agreements, patents, trademarks and copyrights. It is possible that our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not: • prevent our competitors from independently developing similar products, duplicating our products or designing around the patents owned by us; • prevent third-party patents from having an adverse effect on our ability to do business; • provide adequate protection for our intellectual property rights; • prevent disputes with third parties regarding ownership of our intellectual property rights; • prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and know-how to third parties or into the public domain; • prevent the challenge, invalidation or circumvention of our existing patents; • result in patents that lead to commercially viable products or provide competitive advantages for our products; or • result in issued patents or registered trademarks from any of our pending applications. If any of our issued patents are found to be invalid or if any of our patent applications are rejected, our ability to exclude competitors from making, using or selling the same or similar products as us could be compromised. We have occasionally applied for and may in the future apply for patent protection in foreign countries. The laws of foreign countries, however, may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Many U.S. companies have encountered substantial infringement problems in foreign countries. Because we conduct a substantial portion of our operations and sell some of our products outside the United States, we have exposure to foreign intellectual property risks. The markets in which we compete are characterized by frequent claims alleging infringement of patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights of others. From time to time, third parties may assert against us or our customers alleged patent, copyright, trademark, or other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business. There can be no assurance that third parties will not in the future pursue claims against us or our customers with respect to the alleged infringement of intellectual property rights. In addition, litigation or other legal and technical processes may be necessary to protect our intellectual property rights, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against third party claims of infringement and/or invalidity. Litigation and other legal and technical processes could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention and could have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. For example, on December 7, 2007, Tessera, Inc. filed a complaint in the U.S. International Trade Commission and the Eastern District of Texas against us alleging that we have infringed certain of Tessera’s patents. Tessera has sought to enjoin such alleged infringements, to recover an unspecified amount of damages, and to bar our importation and sale of allegedly infringing products. On December 11, 2009, Ring Technology Enterprises of Texas, LLC (“Ring Technology”) filed a complaint in the Eastern District of Texas alleging that we infringed certain patents and seeks an unspecified amount of damages and injunctive relief. See Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” in Part I of this Annual Report. As we expand our product offerings in the SSD market in which larger companies with large patent portfolios compete, the possibility of other intellectual property claims against us grows. Litigation and other patent processes, whether as plaintiff, defendant or otherwise, could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation or other processes are ultimately determined in our favor. In the event of an adverse result in, or a settlement of, a litigation matter, we could be 25 Table of Contents required to pay substantial damages or settlement amounts; cease the manufacture, use, import, and sale of certain products or product components; expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing technology; discontinue the use of certain processes or obtain licenses and pay one-time fees and/or on-going royalties to use the infringing or allegedly infringing technology. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could result in unexpected expenses or require us to recognize an impairment of our assets, which would reduce the value of our assets and increase our expenses. In addition, if we re-design or discontinue our production of affected products, our revenue could be adversely affected. Alternate technology development or license negotiations would likely result in significant expenses and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in such development or negotiations or that such licenses would be available on reasonable terms, or at all. Our indemnification obligations for the infringement by our products of the intellectual property rights of others could require us to pay substantial damages. We currently have in effect a number of agreements in which we agree to defend, indemnify and hold harmless our customers and suppliers from damages and costs which may arise from the infringement or alleged infringement by our products of third-party patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights. We periodically have to respond to claims and litigate indemnification obligations. Indemnification obligations could require us to expend significant amounts of money to defend claims and/or to pay damages or settlement amounts which could have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. Our insurance does not cover intellectual property infringement in most instances. We could incur substantial costs or liabilities as a result of violations of environmental laws. Our operations and properties are subject to a variety of U.S., foreign government and international environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, management and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous materials and wastes, and remediation of releases of hazardous materials. Our failure to comply with present and future requirements, or the identification of contamination, could cause us to incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and penalties, investments to upgrade our facilities or change our processes, or curtailment of operations. The identification of presently unidentified environmental conditions, more vigorous enforcement by regulatory agencies, enactment of more stringent laws and regulations, or other unanticipated events may arise in the future and give rise to material environmental liabilities and related costs. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and international laws and regulatory regimes. Failure to comply with governmental laws and regulations could subject us to, among other things, mandatory product recalls, penalties and investigation and legal expenses which could have an adverse effect on our business. Our business is subject to regulation by various U.S. federal and state governmental agencies. Such regulation includes, without limitation, the radio frequency emission regulatory activities of the Federal Communications Commission, the anti-trust regulatory activities of the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) and the Department of Justice, the consumer protection laws of the FTC, the import/export regulatory activities of the Department of Commerce, the product safety regulatory activities of the Consumer Products Safety Commission, the regulatory activities of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the environmental regulatory activities of the Environmental Protection Agency, the labor regulatory activities of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the export control regulatory activities of the Department of State, the Department of Defense and the Bureau of Industry and Security, and tax and other regulations by a variety of regulatory authorities in each of the areas in which we conduct business. We are also subject to regulation in other countries where we conduct business, including import and export laws and foreign currency control. In certain jurisdictions, such regulatory requirements may be more stringent and complex than in the U.S. We are also subject to a variety of U.S. federal and state employment and labor laws and regulations, including, without limitation, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act, the Worker Adjustment and Restructuring Notification Act (“WARN Act”) 26 Table of Contents which requires employers to give affected employees at least 60 days notice of a plant closing or a mass layoff, and other regulations related to working conditions, wage-hour pay, overtime pay, employee benefits, antidiscrimination and termination of employment. Like other companies operating or selling internationally, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and other laws which generally prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. companies and their intermediaries for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. We make sales and operate in countries known to experience corruption. Our business activities in such countries create the risk of unauthorized conduct by one or more of our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors that could be in violation of various laws including the FCPA. In addition, we may be held liable for actions taken by such parties even though such parties are not subject to the FCPA or similar laws. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA or similar laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Noncompliance with applicable regulations or requirements could subject us to investigations, sanctions, mandatory product recalls, enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, disbarment from government projects, fines, damages, civil and criminal penalties, or injunctions which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, from time to time we have received, and may receive in the future, correspondence from former employees and parties with whom we have done business with, threatening to bring claims against us alleging that we have violated one or more regulations related to customs, labor and employment, or foreign currency control. An adverse outcome in any litigation related to such matters could require us to pay damages, attorneys’ fees and/or other costs. If any governmental sanctions were to be imposed, or if we were to not prevail in any civil action or criminal proceeding, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, responding to any litigation or action would likely result in a significant diversion of management’s attention and resources and an increase in professional fees. If we undertake additional restructuring measures in the future as we have done in the past, we may not be able to effectively implement such future restructuring measures, and such restructuring measures may not result in the expected benefits, any of which would negatively impact our future results of operations. During fiscal 2009 and 2008, we initiated restructuring plans to reduce our work force and cost structure to address challenging business conditions. As a result of current circumstances and conditions, and to take advantage of opportunities to reduce costs, we may implement additional restructuring measures in the future. These additional restructuring measures, if implemented, would be intended to decrease certain ongoing expenses and improve cash flow. However they could also result in significant charges which could negatively impact our cash flow and our financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete and realize the expected benefits of these restructuring measures. Past and future restructuring measures may involve higher costs, fewer benefits, longer timetables, and/or additional restructuring activity in other locations and affect more employees than we anticipate and could negatively impact our cash flow, our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. In addition, our past and future restructuring measures and other cost-saving measures, such as salary reductions in the U.S., shortened work weeks internationally, and a suspension of our 401(k) matching program, may have other consequences, such as attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce or a negative impact on employee morale, any of which could have a negative impact on our future performance, our results of operations and our financial condition. 27 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Debt Restrictive covenants contained in our senior secured revolving line of credit facility (the “WF Credit Facility”) and the indenture relating to our senior secured floating rate notes (the “Notes”) may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take some actions, and our failure to comply with such covenants, whether due to events beyond our control or otherwise, could result in an event of default which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. The indenture relating to the Notes contains various covenants that limit our ability to engage in certain transactions. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the indenture and an acceleration of the Notes. In addition, the WF Credit Facility contains other and more restrictive covenants and prohibits us from voluntarily prepaying certain of our other indebtedness. A breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under the WF Credit Facility and, in the event that there is an acceleration of more than $10 million under the WF Credit Facility, a breach of these covenants could result in an acceleration of our Notes. The WF Credit Facility also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. On April 30, 2010, the WF Credit Facility was amended to extend the term through April 30, 2012. We have not borrowed under the WF Credit Facility since November 2007 and we had no borrowings outstanding as of August 27, 2010. We may not meet the financial covenants required to borrow funds under the WF Credit Facility during all periods before it expires and therefore may not be able to borrow funds if and when we need the funds in the future. If there were an uncured event of default under any of our debt instruments, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to become due and payable immediately and the holder could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. We cannot be certain that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments, either upon maturity or acceleration upon an uncured event of default or, if we were required to repurchase the Notes upon a change of control, that we would be able to refinance or restructure the payments on such debt. Further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure any future outstanding indebtedness under the WF Credit Facility, the lender could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness, our Notes and certain other indebtedness. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt instrument could also result in an event of default under one or more of our other debt instruments. Disruption in the financial markets may adversely impact the availability and cost of credit and cause other disruptions and additional costs at a time when we may need capital to refinance our debt or to fund growth. Refinancing our existing debt or securing new debt or equity financing may be difficult, expensive, dilutive or impossible. As in the past, future instability in the financial markets may also have an adverse effect on the U.S. and/or world economy which could adversely impact our business. If we are not able to obtain the capital required to refinance our existing debt or to fund future growth or if we are required to incur significant expenses and/or dilution to do so, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition and may require us to undertake alternative plans, such as selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or downsizing our business. Our indebtedness could impair our financial condition and harm our ability to operate our business. We have certain debt service obligations. At August 27, 2010, our total outstanding debt was $55.1 million. We may incur additional debt in the future, subject to certain limitations contained in our debt instruments. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences including, but not limited to, the following: • it may limit our ability to service all of our debt obligations; • it may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes; 28 Table of Contents • a significant portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on our debt which would reduce the funds available to us for our operations; • some of our debt is and will continue to be at variable rates of interest, which would result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in those interest rates; • our debt agreements contain, and any agreements to refinance or amend the terms of our debt likely will contain, financial and restrictive covenants, and our failure to comply with them may result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business and our financial condition; • it may increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions; and • it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry. To service our debt and grow our business, we will require a significant amount of cash and we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy these obligations or to refinance these obligations on acceptable terms, or at all. Our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures and research and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our historical financial results have been, and we expect our future financial results will be, subject to substantial fluctuation based upon a wide variety of factors, many of which are not within our control, including among others, those described in this Risk Factors section. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. Certain of these actions would require the consent of our lender and/or note holders. The terms of our credit facility and indenture contain limitations on our ability to incur additional debt. We cannot be assured that any assets could be sold, or, if sold, the timing of the sales and the amount of proceeds realized from those sales, or that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all, or would be permitted under the terms of our debt instruments then in effect. Refinancing of our existing debt or securing new debt or equity financing under these conditions is likely to be difficult, expensive, dilutive or impossible. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we were not able to obtain required financing, it could also prevent us from achieving sales and profit growth that would otherwise be available which, in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition and may require us to undertake alternative plans, such as selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or downsizing our business. Our existing debt is subject to floating interest rates, which may cause our interest expense to increase and decrease cash available for operations and other purposes. We are subject to interest rate risk in connection with our long-term debt of $55.1 million as of August 27, 2010. In addition, our credit facility provides for borrowings of up to $35.0 million that would also bear interest at variable rates. Assuming we could satisfy financial covenants required to borrow, and the credit facility is fully drawn and holding other variables constant, each 1.0% increase in interest rates on our variable rate borrowings would result in an increase in interest expense and a decrease in our cash flows and income before taxes of $0.9 million per year. 29 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares The price of our ordinary shares may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. The market price of the securities of technology companies can be especially volatile. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares regardless of our actual operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts, or our failure to meet the estimates made by us or by securities analysts; • changes in the market valuations of other companies operating in our industry; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant technology changes, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, divestitures, or restructuring initiatives, or other events that affect us or companies in our industry; • loss of a major customer or of significant business at a major customer; • additions or departures of key personnel; • a general downturn or uptick in the stock market; and • developments in existing litigation or the filing of new litigation against us. Some companies experiencing past volatility in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we were to become the subject of securities class action litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. We may experience significant period-to-period, quarterly and annual fluctuations in our net sales and operating results, which may result in volatility in our share price. We may experience significant period-to-period fluctuations in our net sales and operating results. For example, in fiscal 2010 net sales increased 59% from fiscal 2009, and in fiscal 2009 net sales declined 34% from fiscal 2008. Significant fluctuations may occur again in the future due to a number of possible factors and any such fluctuations may cause our share price to fluctuate. Our share price could also drop significantly if we were to report future operating results, or provide guidance, below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. A number of factors, in addition to those cited in other risk factors applicable to our business, may contribute to fluctuations in our sales and operating results, including: • the timing and volume of orders from our customers; • the rate of acceptance of our products by our customers, including the rate of design wins; • the demand for and life cycles of customer products incorporating our products; • the rate of adoption of our products in the end markets we target; • cancellations or deferrals of customer orders or commitments in anticipation of lower pricing, new products or product enhancements from us or our competitors or other providers; • changes in product mix; • the rate at which new markets emerge for products we are currently developing or for which our design expertise can be utilized to develop products for new markets; • production levels of our suppliers or other factors impacting our ability to procure the components we need to manufacture our products; • changes in the cost or availability of components; 30 Table of Contents • significant volatility in prices of wafers, DRAMs, flash and other components; • the timing and acceptance of our new or enhanced products, or products introduced by our competitors and/or our suppliers; • changes in the average selling prices of our products; • fluctuations in demand for our products; • changes in supply and demand conditions; • order cancellations, product returns and inventory buildups by customers, and inventory write-downs; • manufacturing inefficiencies associated with the start-up of new products and low volume production; • expenses associated with strategic transactions, including acquisitions, joint ventures, joint development and capital investments; and • increases in research and development and sales and marketing expenses in connection with new product initiatives. Due to the above and other factors, revenues and results of operations are difficult to forecast, and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be predictive of future performance. In that event, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline. In addition, the trading price of our common stock may fluctuate or decline regardless of our operating performance. Our articles of association do not provide for shareholder proposals other than nominations to our board of directors and do not explicitly provide for periodic elections of our directors, each of which could negatively affect the ability of shareholders to exercise control over us. Other than nominations to our board of directors, our articles of association do not provide for a means by which shareholders can propose resolutions for consideration by the other shareholders, including for example, amendments to our articles of association. Further, our articles of association do not explicitly provide for periodic elections of our directors. Although shareholders may nominate directors in connection with our annual shareholders’ meeting, unless we receive such nominations, our articles of association provide that each of our directors may continue to serve until his death, disability, retirement, resignation or removal (with or without cause) by the other directors or by the vote of shareholders who hold a majority of our shares in favor of a resolution proposed by our board of directors. These provisions could negatively affect the ability of shareholders to exercise control over us. Notwithstanding the absence of specific provisions for periodic election of directors by shareholders, eight of our then current directors stood for re-election at our 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. However, there is no guarantee that any director elected will stand for re-election at any time in the future or that subsequent vacancies on the board will not be filled by appointment by other directors. In July 2010, one of the re-elected independent members of our board of directors resigned and the board elected not to replace that director. Future sales of shares or issuances of shares, options or warrants in connection with acquisitions or financings could depress our share price. If our existing shareholders were to sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline. If our principal investors sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline as these sales might be viewed by the public as an indication of an upcoming or recently occurring shortfall in the financial performance of our company. Moreover, the perception in the public market that these investors might sell shares could depress the market price of our ordinary shares. Additionally, we may sell or issue additional shares, options or warrants in public or private offerings to raise capital or in connection with acquisitions which would result in additional dilution and could adversely affect market prices for our ordinary shares. 31 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit shareholders’ opportunity to sell their shares at a premium. Our memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change of control transactions, including, among other things, provisions that restrict the ability of our shareholders to call meetings, make shareholder proposals and provisions that authorize our board of directors, without action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares and to issue additional ordinary shares. These provisions could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us in a tender offer or similar transactions, even if such transaction would benefit our shareholders. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because the rights of shareholders under Cayman Islands law differ from those under U.S. law, shareholders may have difficulty protecting their shareholder rights. We are a company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the ordinary law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the ordinary law of the Cayman Islands. The ordinary law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English ordinary law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and some states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; or • to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 