ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements use words such as “anticipate,” “budget,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of potential future events, circumstances or future operating or financial performance. These forward-looking statements are based on our management’s current expectations and observations. Included among the factors that, in our view, could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward looking statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K are the following: (i) declines in demand or rates in the drybulk shipping industry; (ii) prolonged weakness in drybulk shipping rates; (iii) changes in the supply of or demand for drybulk products, generally or in particular regions; (iv) changes in the supply of drybulk carriers including newbuilding of vessels or lower than anticipated scrapping of older vessels; (v) changes in rules and regulations applicable to the cargo industry, including, without limitation, legislation adopted by international organizations or by individual countries and actions taken by regulatory authorities; (vi) increases in costs and expenses including but not limited to: crew wages, insurance, provisions, lube oil, bunkers, repairs, maintenance and general, administrative and management fee expenses; (vii) whether our insurance arrangements are adequate; (viii) changes in general domestic and international political conditions; (ix) acts of war, terrorism, or piracy; (x) changes in the condition of our vessels or applicable maintenance or regulatory standards (which may affect, among other things, our anticipated drydocking or maintenance and repair costs) and unanticipated drydock expenditures; (xi) our acquisition or disposition of vessels (xii) the number of off-hire days needed to complete repairs on vessels and the timing and amount of any reimbursement by our insurance carriers for insurance claims including off-hire days; (xiii) the completion of definitive documentation with respect to time charters; (xiv) charterers’ compliance with the terms of their charters in the current market environment; (xv) those other risks and uncertainties discussed below under the heading “RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS & OPERATIONS”, and (xvi) other factors listed from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The following risk factors and other information included in this report should be carefully considered. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. 19 RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS Industry Specific Risk Factors The current global economic downturn may continue to negatively impact our business. In the current global economy, operating businesses have been facing tight credit, weak demand for goods and services, deteriorating international liquidity conditions, and depressed markets. Lower demand for drybulk cargoes as well as diminished trade credit available for the delivery of such cargoes have led to decreased demand for drybulk vessels, creating downward pressure on charter rates. General market volatility has endured as a result of uncertainty about sovereign debt and fears of countries such as Greece, Portugal and Spain defaulting on their governments’ financial obligations and speculation about the growth rate of the Chinese economy. If the current global economic environment persists or worsens, we may be negatively affected in the following ways: · We may not be able to employ our vessels at charter rates as favorable to us as historical rates or operate our vessels profitably. · Our earnings could decline, which may cause us to breach one or more of the covenants in our credit facilities, thereby potentially accelerating the repayment of outstanding facility borrowings and our outstanding convertible notes. · The market values of our vessels have decreased, which may cause us to recognize losses if any of our vessels are sold or if their values are impaired. A further decline in the market value of our vessels could prevent us from borrowing under our credit facilities or trigger defaults under their covenants. In particular, all of our credit facilities contain collateral maintenance covenants, although we obtained a waiver of this covenant in our 2007 Credit Facility in 2009. Please refer to “The market values of our vessels may decrease, which could adversely affect our operating results, cause us to breach one or more of the covenants in our credit facilities or limit the total amount that we may borrow under our revolving credit facilities” below for further details. · Our charterers with long-term time charters may request to renegotiate the terms of our charters with them. As a general matter, we do not agree to make changes to the terms of our charters in response to such requests. As a result, our charterers may fail to meet their obligations under our long-term time charters. · The value of our investment in Jinhui could further decline in future years, and we may recognize additional impairment losses if we were to sell our shares or if the value of our investment is impaired. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Charterhire rates for drybulk carriers are volatile and are currently at historically low levels and may further decrease in the future, which may adversely affect our earnings. The prolonged downturn in the drybulk charter market, from which we derive the large majority of our revenues, has severely affected the drybulk shipping industry. The Baltic Dry Index (“BDI”), an index published by The Baltic Exchange of shipping rates for 26 key drybulk routes, showed continued volatility in 2011 and recorded an average level of 1,525, compared to a ten-year average level of 3,523. The BDI decreased to a historic low in February 2012. While the BDI has since increased, there can be no assurance that the drybulk charter market will increase further, and the market could decline. Seasonal factors have been contributing to the most recent downturn in rates including order timing issues for iron ore cargoes related to the celebration of the Chinese New Year; increased deliveries of newbuilding vessels for the month of January as compared to the previous three months; and short-term weather-related issues in Brazil, temporarily reducing iron ore output by an estimated two million tons. In addition to these factors, the ongoing economic dislocation worldwide and associated disruption of the credit markets, have had a number of adverse consequences for drybulk shipping, including, among other things: · a significant reduction in available financing for vessels; · a less active second-hand market for the sale of vessels; · extremely low charter rates, particularly for vessels employed in the spot market; 20 · widespread loan covenant defaults in the drybulk shipping industry; and · declaration of bankruptcy by some operators and shipowners as well as charterers. Because we charter some of our vessels pursuant to time charters, we are exposed to changes in spot market rates for drybulk carriers at the time of entering into charterhire contracts and such changes may affect our earnings and the value of our drybulk carriers at any given time. In addition, 38 of our 53 vessels currently trade at spot market rates through spot market-related time charters or a vessel pool. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully charter our vessels in the future or renew existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to meet our obligations or to pay dividends to our shareholders. The supply of and demand for shipping capacity strongly influences freight rates. Because the factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable, the nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. Factors that influence demand for vessel capacity include: · demand for and production of drybulk products; · global and regional economic and political conditions, including developments in international trade, fluctuations in industrial and agricultural production and armed conflicts; · the distance drybulk cargo is to be moved by sea; · environmental and other regulatory developments; and · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. The factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: · the number of newbuilding deliveries; · port and canal congestion; · the scrapping rate of older vessels; · vessel casualties; and · the number of vessels that are out of service, i.e., laid-up, drydocked, awaiting repairs or otherwise not available for hire. In addition to the prevailing and anticipated freight rates, factors that affect the rate of newbuilding, scrapping and laying-up include newbuilding prices, secondhand vessel values in relation to scrap prices, costs of bunkers and other operating costs, costs associated with classification society surveys, normal maintenance and insurance coverage, the efficiency and age profile of the existing fleet in the market and government and industry regulation of maritime transportation practices, particularly environmental protection laws and regulations. These factors influencing the supply of and demand for shipping capacity are outside of our control, and we may not be able to correctly assess the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions. We anticipate that the future demand for our drybulk carriers will be dependent upon economic growth in the world’s economies, including China and India, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the global drybulk carrier fleet and the sources and supply of drybulk cargo to be transported by sea. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments, including a change in worldwide fleet capacity, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. An oversupply of drybulk carrier capacity may lead to reductions in charterhire rates and profitability. The market supply of drybulk carriers has been increasing as a result of the delivery of numerous newbuilding orders over the last few years. Currently, we believe there is an oversupply of vessels, as evidenced by some carriers letting their ships sit idle rather than operate them at current rates. 21 Newbuildings have been delivered in significant numbers since the beginning of 2006. The oversupply of drybulk carrier capacity has resulted in a reduction of charterhire rates, as evidenced by the low rates we are experiencing in early 2012. Currently, some of our spot market-related time charterers are at times unprofitable due the volatility associated with dry cargo freight rates. If market conditions persist, upon the expiration or termination of our vessels’ current non-spot charters, we may only be able to re-charter our vessels at reduced or unprofitable rates, or we may not be able to charter these vessels at all. The occurrence of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. The market values of our vessels may decrease, which could adversely affect our operating results, cause us to breach one or more of the covenants in our credit facilities or limit the total amount that we may borrow under our revolving credit facilities. If the book value of one of our vessels is impaired due to unfavorable market conditions or a vessel is sold at a price below its book value, we would incur a loss that could adversely affect our financial results. Also, if the market value of our fleet declines, we may not be in compliance with certain provisions of our credit facilities, and we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing under our credit facilities or otherwise. In January 2009, we obtained a waiver of the collateral maintenance requirement under our 2007 Credit Facility, subject to certain conditions as mentioned above. This requirement was waived pursuant to an amendment entered into on January 26, 2009 (the “2009 Amendment”) effective for the year ended December 31, 2008 and until we can represent that we are in compliance with all of our financial covenants and are otherwise able to pay a dividend and purchase or redeem shares of common stock under the terms of the 2007 Credit Facility in effect before the 2009 Amendment. With the exception of the collateral maintenance financial covenant and the net debt to EBITDA covenant, compliance with which was waived by the lenders through March 31, 2013 under the December 2011 Agreements (defined below), we believe that we are in compliance with our covenants under the 2007 Credit Facility. Without a waiver of the kind provided in the 2009 Amendment, a decrease in the fair market value of our vessels may cause us to breach one or more of the covenants in our 2007 Credit Facility, which could accelerate the repayment of outstanding borrowings under the facility, or may limit the total amount that we may borrow under the facility. We are also subject to collateral maintenance covenants in the $100 Million Term Loan Facility, $253 Million Term Loan Facility, and the 2010 Baltic Trading Credit Facility. A decrease in the fair market value of our vessels may cause us to breach one or more of the covenants in the $100 Million Term Loan Facility, the $253 Million Term Loan Facility, or the 2010 Baltic Trading Credit Facility, which could accelerate the repayment of outstanding borrowings under our facilities, or may limit the total amount that can be borrowed under the 2010 Baltic Trading Credit Facility. We cannot assure you that we will satisfy all our debt covenants in the future or that our lenders will waive any future failure to satisfy these covenants. The occurrence of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Prolonged declines in charter rates and other market deterioration could cause us to incur impairment charges. We evaluate the carrying amounts of our vessels to determine if events have occurred that would require us to evaluate our vessels for an impairment of their carrying amounts. The recoverable amount of vessels is reviewed based on events and changes in circumstances that would indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recovered. The review for potential impairment indicators and projection of future cash flows related to the vessels is complex and requires us to make various estimates including future freight rates and earnings from the vessels. All of these items have been historically volatile. We evaluate the recoverable amount as the higher of fair value and value in use on an undiscounted cash basis. If the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount of the vessel, the vessel is deemed impaired and such vessel would be written down to its fair value. The carrying values of our vessels may not represent their fair market value in the future because the new market prices of second-hand vessels tend to fluctuate with changes in charter rates and the cost of newbuildings. Any impairment charges incurred as a result of declines in charter rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A further economic slowdown or changes in the economic and political environment in the Asia Pacific region could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. A significant number of the port calls made by our vessels involve the loading or discharging of raw materials and semi-finished products in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, a negative change in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, and particularly in China or Japan, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. In particular, in recent years, China has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product. China’s gross domestic product grew by 9.2% in 2011 as compared to a 10.3% growth rate in 2010. We cannot assure you that the Chinese economy will not experience a significant contraction in the future. Although state-owned enterprises still account for a substantial portion of the Chinese industrial output, in general, the Chinese government is reducing the level of direct control that it exercises over the economy through state plans and other measures. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a “market economy” and enterprise reform. Limited price reforms were undertaken with the result that prices for certain commodities 22 are principally determined by market forces. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition based upon the outcome of such experiments. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue a policy of economic reform, the level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws, regulations or export and import restrictions. Notwithstanding economic reform, the Chinese government may adopt policies that favor domestic drybulk shipping companies and may hinder our ability to compete with them effectively. Moreover, a significant or protracted slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union or various Asian countries may adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends will likely be materially and adversely affected by an economic downturn in any of these countries. We are subject to regulation and liability under environmental and operational safety laws that could require significant expenditures and affect our cash flows and net income and could subject us to increased liability under applicable law or regulation. Our business and the operation of our vessels are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions and national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which the vessels operate, as well as in the countries of their registration. Because such conventions, laws, and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with them or their impact on the resale prices or useful lives of our vessels. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted that could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. See “Overview — Environmental and Other Regulation” in Item 1, “Business” of this report for a discussion of such conventions, laws, and regulations. We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, certificates and financial assurances with respect to our operations. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the United Nations’ International Maritime Organization’s International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or ISM Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive “Safety Management System” that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. The IMO adopted the International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage, or the Bunker Convention, to impose strict liability on ship owners for pollution damage in jurisdictional waters of ratifying states caused by discharges of bunker fuel. The Bunker Convention, which became effective on November 21, 2008, requires registered owners of ships over 1,000 gross tons to maintain insurance or other financial security for pollution damage in an amount equal to the limits of liability under the applicable national or international limitation regime (but not exceeding the amount calculated in accordance with the Convention on Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims of 1976, as amended). With respect to non-ratifying states, liability for spills or releases of oil carried as fuel in ship’s bunkers typically is determined by the national or other domestic laws in the jurisdiction where the events or damages occur. The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, established an extensive regulatory and liability regime for the protection and cleanup of the environment from oil spills. OPA affects all owners and operators whose vessels trade in the United States, its territories and possessions or whose vessels operate in U.S. waters. OPA allows for liability without regard to fault of vessel owners, operators and demise charterers for all containment and clean-up costs and other damages arising from discharges or threatened discharges of oil from their vessels, including bunkers, in U.S. waters. Such liability is potentially unlimited in cases of willful misconduct or gross negligence. OPA also expressly permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to hazardous materials and oil pollution materials occurring within their boundaries, provided they accept, at a minimum, the levels of liability established under OPA. The 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico may also result in additional regulatory initiatives or statutes, including the raising of liability caps under OPA. Compliance with any new requirements of OPA may substantially impact our cost of operations or require us to incur additional expenses to comply with any new regulatory initiatives or statutes. Additional legislation or regulations applicable to the operation of our vessels that may be implemented in the future could adversely affect our business. While we do not carry oil as cargo, we do carry bunkers in our drybulk carriers. We currently maintain, for each of our vessels, pollution liability coverage insurance of $1 billion per incident. Damages from a catastrophic spill exceeding our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. 23 Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin and destination. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of the contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Furthermore, changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. We operate our vessels worldwide and as a result, our vessels are exposed to international risks which could reduce revenue or increase expenses. The international shipping industry is an inherently risky business involving global operations. Our vessels will be at risk of damage or loss because of events such as mechanical failure, collision, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, cargo loss and bad weather. All these hazards can result in death or injury to persons, increased costs, loss of revenues, loss or damage to property (including cargo), environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, harm to our reputation as a safe and reliable operator and delay or rerouting. In addition, changing economic, regulatory and political conditions in some countries, including political and military conflicts, have from time to time resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways, piracy, terrorism, labor strikes and boycotts. These sorts of events could interfere with shipping routes and result in market disruptions which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Our vessels may suffer damage, and we may face unexpected dry docking costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to pay drydocking costs that our insurance does not cover in full. In addition, space at drydocking facilities is sometimes limited and not all drydocking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable drydocking facility or we may be forced to travel to a drydocking facility that is distant from the relevant vessel’s position. The loss of earnings while our vessels are being repaired and repositioned or from being forced to wait for space or to travel to more distant drydocking facilities, as well as the actual cost of repairs, could negatively impact our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. The operation of drybulk carriers has certain unique operational risks which could affect our earnings and cash flow. The operation of certain ship types, such as drybulk carriers, has certain unique risks. With a drybulk carrier, the cargo itself and its interaction with the vessel can be an operational risk. By their nature, drybulk cargoes are often heavy, dense, easily shifted, and react badly to water exposure. In addition, drybulk carriers are often subjected to battering treatment during unloading operations with grabs, jackhammers (to pry encrusted cargoes out of the hold) and small bulldozers. This treatment may cause damage to the vessel. Vessels damaged due to treatment during unloading procedures may be more susceptible to breach to the sea. Hull breaches in drybulk carriers may lead to the flooding of the vessels’ holds. If a drybulk carrier suffers flooding in its forward holds, the bulk cargo may become so dense and waterlogged that its pressure may buckle the vessel’s bulkheads, leading to the loss of a vessel. If we are unable to adequately maintain our vessels, we may be unable to prevent these events. Any of these circumstances or events may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. In addition, the loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have continued and could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea, the Indian Ocean and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Since 2008, the frequency of piracy incidents increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized by insurers as “war risk” zones, or Joint War Committee (JWC) “war and strikes” listed areas, premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including costs which may be incurred to the extent we employ onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. 24 In response to piracy incidents, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia, following consultation with regulatory authorities, we may station guards on some of our vessels in some instances. While our use of guards is intended to deter and prevent the hijacking of our vessels, it may also increase our risk of liability for death or injury to persons or damage to personal property. If we do not have adequate insurance in place to cover such liability, it could adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, and other acts of violence or war may affect the financial markets, our vessels, our operations, or our customers and may therefore have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks such as the attacks in the United States on September 11, 2001 and the United States’ continuing response to these attacks, the attacks in London on July 7, 2005, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks, continue to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets, including the energy markets. The continuing conflict in Iraq may lead to additional acts of terrorism, armed conflict and civil disturbance around the world, which may contribute to further instability including in the drybulk shipping markets. Terrorist attacks, such as the attack on the M.T. Limburg in Yemen in October 2002, may also negatively affect our trade patterns or other operations and directly impact our vessels or our customers. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility of the financial markets in the United States and globally and could result in an economic recession in the United States or the world. Any of these occurrences, or the perception that drybulk carriers are potential terrorist targets, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies may be costly and could reduce our net cash flows and net income. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be certified as being “in class” by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention. Our vessels are currently enrolled with the ABS, BV, DNV, or Lloyd’s, each of which is a member of the International Association of Classification Societies. Further, to trade internationally, a vessel must attain an International Ship Security Certificate, or ISSC, from a recognized security organization. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel’s machinery may be placed on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Our vessels are on special survey cycles for hull inspection and continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection. Every vessel is also required to be drydocked every two to three years for inspection of its underwater parts. If any vessel does not maintain its class or fails any annual, intermediate or special survey, the vessel will be unable to trade between ports and will be unemployable and we could be in violation of certain covenants in our credit facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, UK Bribery Act, and other applicable worldwide anti-corruption laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and other applicable worldwide anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. These laws include the recently enacted U.K. Bribery Act, which became effective on July 1, 2011 and which is broader in scope than the FCPA, as it contains no facilitating payments exception. We charter our vessels into some jurisdictions that international corruption monitoring groups have identified as having high levels of corruption. Our activities create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees or agents that could be in violation of the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption laws. Our policies mandate compliance with applicable anti-corruption laws. Although we have policies, procedures and internal controls in place to monitor internal and external compliance, we cannot assure that our policies and procedures will protect us from governmental investigations or inquiries surrounding actions of our employees or agents. If we are found to be liable for violations of the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption laws (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified, skilled employees or crew necessary to operate our business. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. In crewing our vessels, we require technically skilled employees with specialized training who can perform physically demanding work. Competition to attract and retain qualified crew members is intense. If we are not able to increase our rates to compensate for any crew cost increases, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Any inability we experience in the future to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could impair our ability to manage, maintain and grow our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Labor interruptions could disrupt our business. Our vessels are manned by masters, officers and crews that are employed by third parties. If not resolved in a timely and cost-effective manner, industrial action or other labor unrest could prevent or hinder our operations from being carried out normally and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. The smuggling of drugs or other contraband onto our vessels may lead to governmental claims against us. We expect that our vessels will call in ports in South America and other areas where smugglers attempt to hide drugs and other contraband on vessels, with or without the knowledge of crew members. To the extent our vessels are found with contraband, whether inside or attached to the hull of our vessel and whether with or without the knowledge of any of our crew, we may face governmental or other regulatory claims which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. 25 Arrests of our vessels by maritime claimants could cause a significant loss of earnings for the related off-hire period. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by “arresting” or “attaching” a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could result in a significant loss of earnings for the related off-hire period. In addition, in jurisdictions where the “sister ship” theory of liability applies, a claimant may arrest the vessel which is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. In countries with “sister ship” liability laws, claims might be asserted against us or any of our vessels for liabilities of other vessels that we own. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings. A government of a vessel’s registry could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner. A government could also requisition our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Increases in fuel prices could adversely affect our profits. From time to time, we may operate our vessels on spot charters either directly or by placing them in pools with similar vessels. Spot charter arrangements generally provide that the vessel owner or pool operator bear the cost of fuel in the form of bunkers, which is a significant vessel operating expense. We currently have five vessels operating in vessel pools, and we may arrange for more vessels to do so, depending on market conditions. Also, the cost of fuel may also be a factor in negotiating charter rates in the future. As a result, an increase in the price of fuel beyond our expectations may adversely affect our profitability, cash flows and ability to pay dividends. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates as a result of events outside our control, including geo-political developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns and regulations. Our results of operations are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may adversely affect our financial condition. We operate our vessels in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results, depending on when we enter into our time charters or if our vessels trade on the spot market. The drybulk sector is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and raw materials in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. As a result, our revenues could be weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and conversely, our revenue could be stronger during the quarters ended December 31 and March 31. This seasonality could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Company Specific Risk Factors Our earnings will be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our vessels. As of February 21, 2012, most of our vessels were in arrangements in which they were trading at spot market rates. 33 of our vessels, excluding Baltic Trading’s vessels, were engaged under spot market-related time charter contracts that expire (assuming the option periods in the time charters are not exercised) between February 2012 and May 2015, and five of our vessels were trading in the spot charter market through participation in pool arrangements. The remaining 15 of the vessels in our fleet were engaged under time charters at fixed rates. Although time charters provide relatively steady streams of revenues, our vessels committed to time charters may not be available for spot voyages during periods of increasing charterhire rates, when spot voyages might be more profitable. The drybulk market is volatile, and in the past charterhire rates for drybulk carriers have sometimes declined below operating costs of vessels. If our vessels become available for employment in the spot market or under new time charters during periods when market prices have fallen, we may have to employ our vessels at depressed market prices, which would lead to reduced or volatile earnings. To the extent our vessels trade in the spot charter market, we may experience fluctuations in revenue, cash flow and net income. The spot charter market is highly competitive, and spot market voyage charter rates may fluctuate dramatically based primarily on the worldwide supply of drybulk vessels available in the market and the worldwide demand for the transportation of drybulk cargoes. We can provide no assurance that future charterhire rates will enable us to operate our vessels profitably. In addition, our standard time charter contracts with our customers specify certain performance parameters, which if not met can result in 26 customer claims. Such claims may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. If we cannot find profitable employment for additional vessels that we acquire, our earnings will be adversely affected. We generally acquire vessels free of charter, although we have and may again acquire some vessels with continuing time charters. In addition, where a vessel has been under a voyage charter, it is rare in the shipping industry for the last charterer of the vessel in the seller’s hands to continue as the first charterer of the vessel in the buyer’s hands. To the extent we operate our vessels in vessel pools, the profitable employment of our vessels depends to some degree on the ability of the pool operators. We provide no assurance that we will be able to arrange immediate or profitable employment for vessels that we acquire. If we cannot do so, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. We depend upon a small number of charterers for a large part of our revenues. The loss of one or more of these charterers could adversely affect our financial performance. We have derived a significant part of our revenues from a small number of charterers. For the year ended December 31, 2011, 100% of our revenues were derived from 32 charterers, including charterers of Baltic Trading’s vessels. Additionally, approximately 42.2% of our revenues were derived from two charterers, Swissmarine and Cargill. If we were to lose any of these charterers, or if any of these charterers significantly reduced its use of our services or was unable to make charter payments to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. The aging of our fleet and our practice of purchasing and operating previously owned vessels may result in increased operating costs and vessels off-hire, which could adversely affect our earnings. The majority of our drybulk carriers were previously owned by third parties. Our current business strategy includes additional growth through the acquisition of previously owned vessels. While we typically inspect previously owned vessels before purchase, this does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Accordingly, we may not discover defects or other problems with such vessels before purchase. Any such hidden defects or problems, when detected, may be expensive to repair, and if not detected, may result in accidents or other incidents for which we may become liable to third parties. Also, when purchasing previously owned vessels, we do not receive the benefit of any builder warranties if the vessels we buy are older than one year. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. The average age of the vessels in our current fleet, excluding Baltic Trading vessels, is approximately 6.8 years. Older vessels are typically less fuel-efficient than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology and cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, safety and other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to some of our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which these vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. As a result, regulations and standards could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. An increase in operating costs could adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition. Our vessel operating expenses include the costs of crew, provisions, deck and engine stores, lube oil, bunkers, insurance and maintenance and repairs, which depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Some of these costs, primarily relating to insurance and enhanced security measures implemented after September 11, 2001, and as a result of the increase in the frequency of acts of piracy, have been increasing. We expect that the costs of crewing, lubes, and repairs may increase in 2012 compared to 2011. In addition, to the extent we enter the spot charter market, we need to include the cost of bunkers as part of our voyage expenses. The price of bunker fuel may increase in the future. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. Increases in any of these costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. We depend to a significant degree upon third-party managers to provide the technical management of our fleet. Any failure of these technical managers to perform their obligations to us could adversely affect our business. 27 We have contracted the technical management of our fleet, including crewing, maintenance and repair services, to third-party technical management companies. The failure of these technical managers to perform their obligations could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. In the highly competitive international drybulk shipping industry, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources. We employ our vessels in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of drybulk cargoes can be intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its managers to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions that may be able to offer better prices and fleets than we are able to offer. We are currently prohibited from paying dividends or repurchasing our stock, and it is unlikely this prohibition will be lifted until market conditions improve. We agreed to the 2009 Amendment to our 2007 Credit Facility that contained a waiver of the collateral maintenance requirement. As a condition of this waiver, among other things, we agreed to suspend our cash dividends and share repurchases until such time as we can satisfy the collateral maintenance requirement. Until market conditions which have resulted in a decline in the value of drybulk vessels improve, it is unlikely that we will be able to meet that condition to reinstate our cash dividends and share repurchases. In addition, on December 21, 2011, we entered into agreements (the “December 2011 Agreements”) to amend or waive portions of our 2007 Credit Facility, our $100 Million Term Loan Facility, and our $253 Million Term Facility. Among other things, these agreements effected a waiver of our existing maximum leverage ratio covenant and our minimum permitted consolidated interest ratio covenant for a period ending on (and including) March 31, 2013, or the waiver period. The agreements pertaining to our $100 Million Term Loan Facility and our $253 Million Term Facility prohibit us from paying dividends during the waiver period. Even if we were able to reinstate the payment of cash dividends under our credit facilities, we would make dividend payments to our shareholders only if our Board of Directors, acting in its sole discretion, determines that such payments would be in our best interest and in compliance with relevant legal and contractual requirements. The principal business factors that our Board of Directors would consider when determining the timing and amount of dividend payments would be our earnings, financial condition and cash requirements at the time. Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the declaration and payment of dividends other than from surplus. Marshall Islands law also prohibits the declaration and payment of dividends while a company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent by the payment of such a dividend. We may incur other expenses or liabilities that would reduce or eliminate the cash available for distribution as dividends. We may also enter into new agreements or the Marshall Islands or another jurisdiction may adopt laws or regulations that place additional restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. If we do not pay dividends, the return on your investment would be limited to the price at which you could sell your shares. We may not be able to grow or effectively manage our growth, which could cause us to incur additional indebtedness and other liabilities and adversely affect our business. A principal focus of our business strategy is to grow by expanding our business. Our future growth will depend on a number of factors, some of which we can control and some of which we cannot. These factors include our ability to: · identify vessels for acquisition; · consummate acquisitions or establish joint ventures; · integrate acquired vessels successfully with our existing operations; · expand our customer base; and · obtain required financing for our existing and new operations. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks, including undisclosed liabilities and obligations, difficulty obtaining additional qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and suppliers and integrating newly acquired 28 operations into existing infrastructures. Future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional indebtedness and liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. In addition, competition from other buyers for vessels could reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay a higher price than we might otherwise pay. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in executing our growth plans or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with these plans. Restrictive covenants in our 2007 Credit Facility, $253 Million Term Loan Facility, $100 Million Term Loan Facility and the 2010 Baltic Trading Credit Facility may impose financial and other restrictions on us which could negatively impact our growth and adversely affect our operations. Our ability to borrow amounts under our 2007 Credit Facility is subject to the satisfaction of certain customary conditions precedent and compliance with terms and conditions included in the related credit documents. It is a condition precedent to each drawdown under the facility that the aggregate fair market value of the mortgaged vessels must at all times be at least 130% of the aggregate outstanding principal amount under the credit facility plus all letters of credit outstanding (determined on a pro forma basis giving effect to the amount proposed to be drawn down), although this condition is currently subject to a waiver, as noted above. To the extent that we are not able to satisfy these requirements, we may not be able to draw down the full amount under our 2007 Credit Facility without obtaining a further waiver or consent from the lenders. In addition, the covenants in our 2007 Credit Facility include the following requirements: · The leverage covenant requires the maximum average net debt to EBITDA ratio to be no greater than 5.5:1.0, although our compliance with this covenant has been waived for a period ending on (and including) March 31, 2013, or the waiver period; · cash and cash equivalents must not be less than $0.5 million per mortgaged vessel; · the ratio of EBITDA to interest expense, on a rolling last four-quarter basis, must be no less than 2.0:1.0, although our compliance with this covenant has been waived for the waiver period; · during the waiver period, the ratio of our interest-bearing indebtedness to the sum of our interest-bearing indebtedness and our consolidated net worth in accordance with GAAP is limited to 62.5% on the last day of any fiscal quarter; and · after July 20, 2007, consolidated net worth must be no less than $263.3 million plus 80% of the value of any of our new equity issuances from June 30, 2007. Based on the equity offerings completed in October 2007, May 2008 and July 2010, consolidated net worth must be no less than $634.7 million. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with these covenants in the future. If we do not comply with the covenants in our credit facilities (absent effective waivers) and we fail to cure our non-compliance following notice and expiration of applicable cure periods, we may be in default of one or more of our credit facilities and the indenture for our 2010 Notes. As a result, some or all of our indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable, and we may not be able to borrow further under our credit facilities. As a result, we may experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, notwithstanding the waiver of certain covenants as described above, for purposes of our financial statements in each future fiscal quarter, we must test our compliance with the original covenants at all quarterly measurement dates within a year before June 30, 2013 in accordance with GAAP. Under our credit facilities, June 30, 2013 is the first date following expiration of our waivers on which our compliance with the original covenants will be measured. If we would not have been in compliance with the original covenants absent the waivers received and it is probable we would not be in compliance at measurement dates within such year, our indebtedness under this facility would be required to be reclassified as a current liability in such quarter. Any such reclassification would not affect our existing waivers, although there can be no assurance that we could obtain further waivers upon their expiration. As our $253 Million Term Loan Facility and our $100 Million Term Loan Facility contain corresponding covenants to which waivers apply as described below, our indebtedness under these facilities likewise would be reclassified as current liabilities. Our 2007 Credit Facility imposes operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability to: · incur additional indebtedness on satisfactory terms or at all; · incur liens on our assets; · sell our vessels or the capital stock of our subsidiaries; · make investments; · engage in mergers or acquisitions; · pay dividends (following an event of default or our breach of a covenant) in the event we are able to resume dividend payments under the waiver of our collateral maintenance covenant which is currently in effect); · make capital expenditures; · compete effectively to the extent our competitors are subject to less onerous financial restrictions; and 29 · change the management of our vessels or terminate or materially amend the management agreement relating to any of our vessels. Additionally, the $253 Million Term Loan Facility requires us to comply with a number of covenants, including financial covenants related to leverage, consolidated net worth, liquidity and interest coverage, dividends, collateral maintenance requirements, and other covenants, most of which are in principle and calculation similar to the covenants described above under the 2007 Credit Facility, except for the minimum cash requirement, which is $0.75 million per mortgaged vessel under this facility. The waivers described above for our 2007 Credit Facility of our leverage ratio and our ratio of EBITDA to interest expense also apply to this facility for the waiver period. In addition, we are prohibited from paying dividends during the waiver period. Similarly, the $100 Million Term Loan Facility requires us to comply with a number of covenants, including financial covenants related to leverage, consolidated net worth, interest coverage and dividends, minimum working capital requirements, collateral maintenance requirements and other covenants, most of which are in principle and calculation similar to the covenants described above under the 2007 Credit Facility, except for the minimum cash requirement, which is $0.75 million per mortgaged vessel under this facility. The waivers described above for our 2007 Credit Facility of our leverage ratio and our ratio of EBITDA to interest expense also apply to this facility for the waiver period. In addition, we are prohibited from paying dividends during the waiver period. The $100 Million Term Loan Facility includes usual and customary events of default and remedies for facilities of this nature. Availability of each tranche of the $100 Million Term Loan Facility is subject to our acquisition of each of the five vessels from Metrostar and other conditions and documentation relating to the collateral securing the $100 Million Term Loan Facility. The 2010 Baltic Trading Credit Facility requires Baltic Trading to comply with a number of covenants, including financial covenants related to liquidity, consolidated net worth, and collateral maintenance, restrictions on changes in the Manager of Baltic Trading’s initial vessels (or acceptable replacement vessels), limitations on changes to the Management Agreement between Baltic Trading and us, limitations on liens, limitations on additional indebtedness, restrictions on paying dividends, restrictions on transactions with affiliates and other customary covenants. Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate actions. Our lenders’ interests may be different from ours, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders’ permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest and from executing our business strategy of growth through acquisitions and may restrict or limit our ability to pay dividends and finance our future operations. The issuance of our outstanding convertible notes could affect our business in the future. The issuance of our 5.00% Convertible Senior Notes due August 15, 2015 (the “2010 Notes”) could affect us and our business in the following ways: · The indebtedness associated with the 2010 Notes, together with indebtedness incurred under our 2007 Credit Facility, $253 Million Term Loan Facility, $100 Million Term Loan Facility and the 2010 Baltic Trading Credit Facility, is substantial. Our ability to obtain additional financing or pursue new business opportunities may be negatively impacted. · We may need to refinance the 2010 Notes and our other debt on terms that may be unfavorable to us (if refinancing is available at all) if our cash flow is insufficient to service the 2010 Notes and such other debt. · We may make cash payments to satisfy our conversion obligations under the 2010 Notes, which could materially adversely affect our liquidity, cash flows, and results of operations. · In the event of certain mergers or acquisitions of us, the indenture for the 2010 Notes may require us to repurchase the 2010 Notes or the surviving entity to assume our obligations under the 2010 Notes. These requirements may deter or prevent a business combination that may be favorable to our securityholders. We currently maintain all of our cash and cash equivalents with five financial institutions, which subjects us to credit risk. We currently maintain all of our cash and cash equivalents with five financial institutions. None of our balances are covered by insurance in the event of default by the financial institutions. The occurrence of such a default of any of these institutions could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to fund our capital expenditures, we may not be able to continue to operate some of our vessels, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to pay dividends. 30 In order to fund our capital expenditures, we may be required to incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or equity securities. Our ability to borrow money and access the capital markets through future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such offering as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures would limit our ability to continue to operate some of our vessels or impair the value of our vessels and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and ability to pay dividends. Even if we are successful in obtaining such funds through financings, the terms of such financings could further limit our ability to pay dividends. We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations or to make dividend payments. We are a holding company, and our subsidiaries, which are all wholly owned by us, either directly or indirectly, conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our wholly owned subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to satisfy our financial obligations and to pay dividends to our shareholders depends on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us. In turn, the ability of our subsidiaries to make dividend payments to us will be dependent on them having profits available for distribution and, to the extent that we are unable to obtain dividends from our subsidiaries, this will limit the discretion of our Board of Directors to pay or recommend the payment of dividends. Our ability to obtain additional debt financing may depend on the performance of our then existing charters and the creditworthiness of our charterers, and market conditions. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, or market conditions affecting the time charter market and the credit markets, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional capital resources that may be required to purchase additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such capital. Our inability to obtain additional financing at all or at a higher than anticipated cost may have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. If management is unable to continue to provide reports as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to continue to provide us with unqualified attestation reports as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in this and each of our future annual reports on Form 10-K a report containing our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a related attestation of our independent registered public accounting firm. If, in such future annual reports on Form 10-K, our management cannot provide a report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified attestation report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. If we are unable to operate our financial and operations systems effectively or to recruit suitable employees as we expand our fleet, our performance may be adversely affected. Our current financial and operating systems may not be adequate as we implement our plan to expand the size of our fleet, and our attempts to improve those systems may be ineffective. In addition, as we expand our fleet, we will have to rely on our outside technical managers to recruit suitable additional seafarers and shore-based administrative and management personnel. We cannot assure you that our outside technical managers will be able to continue to hire suitable employees as we expand our fleet. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may negatively affect the effectiveness of our management and our results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team and our ability to hire and retain key members of our management team. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining personnel could have a material adverse effect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. We do not intend to maintain “key man” life insurance on any of our officers. 31 Arrangements relating to our Baltic Trading subsidiary and MEP could require significant time and attention from our personnel and may result in conflicts of interest. Our subsidiary, Baltic Trading, conducts a shipping business focused on the drybulk industry spot market. Some of our personnel provide services to Baltic Trading, including our Chief Financial Officer. This requires substantial time and attention from these individuals and reduces their availability to serve us. Our Chairman and two of our directors serve on the Baltic Trading board of directors. Our officers and directors who also serve Baltic Trading may encounter situations in which their fiduciary obligations to us and to Baltic Trading are in conflict. The Omnibus Agreement entered into between us and Baltic Trading is intended to reduce these conflicts by granting a right of first refusal to Baltic Trading for certain spot chartering opportunities and to us for other business opportunities. However, these arrangements and/or the resolutions of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our shareholders and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. We provide technical services for drybulk vessels purchased by MEP under an agency agreement between us and MEP. These services include oversight of crew management, insurance, drydocking, ship operations and financial statement preparation, but do not include chartering services. This requires substantial time and attention from these individuals and reduces their availability to serve us. Our Chairman is a minority investor in MEP, and affiliates of Oaktree Capital Management, L.P., of which Stephen A. Kaplan, one of our directors, is a principal, are majority investors in MEP. This arrangement was approved by an independent committee of our Board of Directors. Although we do not provide MEP with chartering services or assistance with the purchase and sale of vessels, the arrangement under the agency agreement may not always be in our best interest or that of our shareholders and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Our Chairman may pursue business opportunities in our industry that may conflict with our interests. Our Chairman, Peter C. Georgiopoulos, is not an employee of our company and is not contractually committed to remain as a director of our company or to refrain from other activities in our industry. Mr. Georgiopoulos actively reviews potential investment opportunities in the shipping industry, including the drybulk sector, from time to time. Mr. Georgiopoulos has informed us that so long as he is a director of our company, prior to making an investment in an entity owning or operating drybulk vessels, he intends to make a disclosure to our board and our independent directors and allow us to pursue the opportunity to the extent we choose to do so and are able. However, in the event we choose not to pursue any such opportunity or are not able to obtain such an opportunity, Mr. Georgiopoulos may proceed, either alone or with others, with such investments. In keeping with these principles, Mr. Georgiopoulos has become a minority investor in MEP, a company he controls which owns 12 drybulk vessels. As a result of such investments, Mr. Georgiopoulos may have independent interests in the ownership and operation of drybulk vessels that may conflict with our interests. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us if we lose our vessels or to compensate third parties. There are a number of risks associated with the operation of ocean-going vessels, including mechanical failure, collision, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, property loss, cargo loss or damage and business interruption due to political circumstances in foreign countries, hostilities and labor strikes. Any of these events may result in loss of revenues, increased costs and decreased cash flows. In addition, the operation of any vessel is subject to the inherent possibility of marine disaster, including oil spills and other environmental mishaps, and the liabilities arising from owning and operating vessels in international trade. We are insured against tort claims and some contractual claims (including claims related to environmental damage and pollution) through memberships in protection and indemnity associations or clubs, or P&I Associations. As a result of such membership, the P&I Associations provide us coverage for such tort and contractual claims. We also carry hull and machinery insurance and war risk insurance for our fleet. We insure our vessels for third-party liability claims subject to and in accordance with the rules of the P&I Associations in which the vessels are entered. We currently maintain insurance against loss of hire, which covers business interruptions that result in the loss of use of a vessel. We can give no assurance that we will be adequately insured against all risks. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our fleet in the future. The insurers may not pay particular claims. Our insurance policies contain deductibles for which we will be responsible and limitations and exclusions which may increase our costs or lower our revenue. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew our insurance policies on the same or commercially reasonable terms, or at all, in the future. For example, more stringent environmental regulations have led in the past to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, protection and indemnity insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. In addition, our insurance may be voidable by the insurers as a result of certain of our actions, such as our ships failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime self-regulatory organizations. Further, we cannot assure you that our insurance 32 policies will cover all losses that we incur, or that disputes over insurance claims will not arise with our insurance carriers. Any claims covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, and since it is possible that a large number of claims may be brought, the aggregate amount of these deductibles could be material. In addition, our insurance policies are subject to limitations and exclusions, which may increase our costs or lower our revenues, thereby possibly having a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. We are subject to funding calls by our protection and indemnity associations, and our associations may not have enough resources to cover claims made against them. We are indemnified for legal liabilities incurred while operating our vessels through membership in P&I Associations. P&I Associations are mutual insurance associations whose members must contribute to cover losses sustained by other association members. The objective of a P&I Association is to provide mutual insurance based on the aggregate tonnage of a member’s vessels entered into the association. Claims are paid through the aggregate premiums of all members of the association, although members remain subject to calls for additional funds if the aggregate premiums are insufficient to cover claims submitted to the association. Claims submitted to the association may include those incurred by members of the association, as well as claims submitted to the association from other P&I Associations with which our P&I Association has entered into interassociation agreements. We cannot assure you that the P&I Associations to which we belong will remain viable or that we will not become subject to additional funding calls which could adversely affect us. We may have to pay U.S. tax on U.S. source income, which would reduce our net income and cash flows. If we do not qualify for an exemption pursuant to Section 883 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, which we refer to as Section 883, then we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our shipping income that is derived from U.S. sources. If we are subject to such tax, our net income and cash flows would be reduced by the amount of such tax. We will qualify for exemption under Section 883 if, among other things, our stock is treated as primarily and regularly traded on an established securities market in the United States. Under applicable Treasury regulations, we may not satisfy this publicly traded requirement in any taxable year in which 50% or more of our stock is owned for more than half the days in such year by persons who actually or constructively own 5% or more of our stock, which we sometimes refer to as 5% shareholders. Based on the ownership of our stock, we believe that we satisfied the publicly traded requirement for an exemption from U.S. federal income tax on our shipping income pursuant to Section 883 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for 2010 and 2011. However, if 5% shareholders were to own 50% or more of our stock for more than half the days of any taxable year, we may not be eligible to claim exemption from tax under Section 883 for such taxable year. As of December 31, 2011, based on the holdings of our Chairman, Peter C. Georgiopoulos and the holdings of other investors reported on Schedule 13G, our 5% shareholders owned approximately 35.62% of our common stock. We can provide no assurance that changes and shifts in the ownership of our stock by 5% shareholders will not preclude us from qualifying for exemption from tax under Section 883 in future years. If we do not qualify for the Section 883 exemption, our shipping income derived from U.S. sources, or 50% of our gross shipping income attributable to transportation beginning or ending in the United States, would be subject to a 4% tax without allowance for deductions. Baltic Trading is also incorporated in the Marshall Islands. However, Baltic Trading did not qualify for an exemption under Section 883 upon consummation of its IPO because it did not satisfy the publicly traded requirement as described above. Since Baltic Trading’s IPO was completed on March 15, 2010, we have indirectly owned shares of Baltic Trading’s Class B Stock which has provided us with over 50% of the combined voting power of all classes of Baltic Trading’s voting stock. As such, Baltic Trading is subject to income tax on its United States source income. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, Baltic Trading had United States operations which resulted in United States source income of approximately $3.1 million and $2.5 million, respectively. In addition, our revenues derived from our technical and commercial management provided to Baltic Trading and MEP resulted in U.S. source income for which we are subject to U.S. income tax on a net basis. These revenues totaled approximately $6.3 million and $6.7 million during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. 33 A foreign corporation generally will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” which we sometimes refer to as a PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of “passive income” or (2) at least 50% of its assets (averaged over the year and generally determined based upon value) produce or are held for the production of “passive income.” U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to distributions they receive from the PFIC and gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their stock in the PFIC. For purposes of these tests, “passive income” generally includes dividends, interest, gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business, as defined in applicable Treasury regulations. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” By contrast, rental income would generally constitute passive income unless we were treated under specific rules as deriving our rental income in the active conduct of a trade or business. We do not believe that our existing operations would cause us to be deemed a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time and spot chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that (1) our income from our time and spot chartering activities does not constitute passive income and (2) the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. While there is no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our method of operation, there is legal authority supporting this position consisting of case law and pronouncements by the United States Internal Revenue Service, which we sometimes refer to as the IRS, concerning the characterization of income derived from time charters and voyage charters as services income for other tax purposes. However, it should be noted that there is also authority which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, because there are uncertainties in the application of the PFIC rules, because the PFIC test is an annual test, and because, although we intend to manage our business so as to avoid PFIC status to the extent consistent with our other business goals, there could be changes in the nature and extent of our operations in future years, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC in any taxable year. If we were to be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year (and regardless of whether we remain a PFIC for subsequent taxable years), our U.S. shareholders would face adverse U.S. tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless a shareholder makes certain elections available under the Code (which elections could themselves have adverse consequences for such shareholder), such shareholder would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at the highest applicable income tax rates on ordinary income upon the receipt of excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common stock, plus interest on such amounts, as if such excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder’s holding period of our common stock. Because we generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but incur a portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could hurt our results of operations. We generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars, but we may incur drydocking costs, special survey fees and other expenses in other currencies. If our expenditures on such costs and fees were significant, and the U.S. dollar were weak against such currencies, our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends could be adversely affected. Legislative action relating to taxation could materially and adversely affect us. Our tax position could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by any tax authority. For example, legislative proposals have been introduced in the U.S. Congress which, if enacted, could change the circumstances under which we would be treated as a U.S. person for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate and cash tax position and require us to take action, at potentially significant expense, to seek to preserve our effective tax rate and cash tax position. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Certain shareholders own large portions of our outstanding common stock, which may limit your ability to influence our actions. As of December 31, 2011, Peter C. Georgiopoulos, our Chairman, owned approximately 12.66% of our common stock directly or through Fleet Acquisition LLC. Also as of December 31, 2011, Nevada Capital Corporation Limited, a company unaffiliated with Mr. Georgiopoulos, owned approximately 16.53% of our common stock. As a result of this share ownership and for so long as either such shareholder owns a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock, either such shareholder will be able to influence the outcome of any shareholder vote, including the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in 34 our articles of incorporation or by-laws and possible mergers, corporate control contests and other significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us. This concentration of ownership could also discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which could in turn have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Because we are a foreign corporation, you may not have the same rights or protections that a shareholder in a United States corporation may have. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law and may make it more difficult for our shareholders to protect their interests. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws and the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain U.S. jurisdictions and there have been few judicial cases in the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. Therefore, you may have more difficulty in protecting your interests as a shareholder in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. Future sales of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The market price of our common stock could decline due to sales of a large number of shares in the market, including sales of shares by our large shareholders, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales could also make it more difficult or impossible for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. We have entered into a registration rights agreement with Fleet Acquisition LLC that entitles it to have all the shares of our common stock that it owns registered for sale in the public market under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and, pursuant to the registration rights agreement, registered Fleet Acquisition LLC’s shares on a registration statement on Form S-3 in February 2007. We also registered on Form S-8 for an aggregate of 2,000,000 shares issued or issuable under our equity compensation plan. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all or which may dilute our common stock or adversely affect its market price. We may require additional capital to expand our business and increase revenues, add liquidity in response to negative economic conditions, meet unexpected liquidity needs caused by industry volatility or uncertainty and reduce our outstanding indebtedness under our existing facilities. To the extent that our existing capital and borrowing capabilities are insufficient to meet these requirements and cover any losses, we will need to raise additional funds through debt or equity financings, including offerings of our common stock, securities convertible into our common stock, or rights to acquire our common stock or curtail our growth and reduce our assets or restructure arrangements with existing security holders. Any equity or debt financing, or additional borrowings, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. Equity financings could result in dilution to our stockholders, as described further below, and the securities issued in future financings may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common stock. If our need for capital arises because of significant losses, the occurrence of these losses may make it more difficult for us to raise the necessary capital. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms if and when needed, we may not be able to take advantage of future opportunities, grow our business or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. Conversion of the 2010 Notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. The conversion of some or all of the 2010 Notes may dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of any of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the anticipated conversion of the 2010 Notes into shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. Future issuances of our common stock could dilute our shareholders’ interests in our company. We may, from time to time, issue additional shares of common stock to support our growth strategy, reduce debt or provide us with capital for other purposes that our Board of Directors believes to be in our best interest. To the extent that an existing shareholder does not purchase additional shares that we may issue, that shareholder’s interest in our company will be diluted, which means that its percentage of ownership in our company will be reduced. Following such a reduction, that shareholder’s common stock 35 would represent a smaller percentage of the vote in our Board of Directors’ elections and other shareholder decisions. Volatility in the market price and trading volume of our common stock could adversely impact the trading price of our common stock. The stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies like us. These broad market factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. The market price of our common stock, which has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent months, could continue to fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including in response to the risks described herein or for reasons unrelated to our operations, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions or negative announcements by our competitors or suppliers regarding their own performance, as well as industry conditions and general financial, economic and political instability. A decrease in the market price of our common stock would adversely impact the value of your shares of common stock. Provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and by-laws may have anti-takeover effects which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Several provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and by-laws, which are summarized below, may have anti-takeover effects. These provisions are intended to avoid costly takeover battles, lessen our vulnerability to a hostile change of control and enhance the ability of our Board of Directors to maximize shareholder value in connection with any unsolicited offer to acquire our company. However, these anti-takeover provisions could also discourage, delay or prevent (1) the merger or acquisition of our company by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise that a shareholder may consider in its best interest and (2) the removal of incumbent officers and directors. Blank Check Preferred Stock. Under the terms of our amended and restated articles of incorporation, our Board of Directors has the authority, without any further vote or action by our shareholders, to authorize our issuance of up to 25,000,000 shares of blank check preferred stock. Our Board of Directors may issue shares of preferred stock on terms calculated to discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or the removal of our management. Classified Board of Directors. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation provide for the division of our Board of Directors into three classes of directors, with each class as nearly equal in number as possible, serving staggered, three-year terms beginning upon the expiration of the initial term for each class. Approximately one-third of our Board of Directors is elected each year. This classified board provision could discourage a third party from making a tender offer for our shares or attempting to obtain control of us. It could also delay shareholders who do not agree with the policies of our Board of Directors from removing a majority of our Board of Directors for up to two years. Election and Removal of Directors. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors. Our by-laws require parties other than the board of directors to give advance written notice of nominations for the election of directors. Our articles of incorporation also provide that our directors may be removed only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of 662/3% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote for those directors or by a majority of the members of the board of directors then in office. These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent the removal of incumbent officers and directors. Limited Actions by Shareholders. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and our by-laws provide that any action required or permitted to be taken by our shareholders must be effected at an annual or special meeting of shareholders or by the unanimous written consent of our shareholders. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and our by-laws provide that, subject to certain exceptions, our Chairman, President, or Secretary at the direction of the Board of Directors may call special meetings of our shareholders and the business transacted at the special meeting is limited to the purposes stated in the notice. Advance Notice Requirements for Shareholder Proposals and Director Nominations. Our by-laws provide that shareholders seeking to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of their proposal in writing to the corporate secretary. Generally, to be timely, a shareholder’s notice must be received at our principal executive offices not less than 150 days nor more than 180 days before 36 the date on which we first mailed our proxy materials for the preceding year’s annual meeting. Our by-laws also specify requirements as to the form and content of a shareholder’s notice. These provisions may impede a shareholder’s ability to bring matters before an annual meeting of shareholders or make nominations for directors at an annual meeting of shareholders. It may not be possible for our investors to enforce U.S. judgments against us. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands and most of our subsidiaries are also organized in the Marshall Islands. Substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for United States shareholders to serve process within the United States upon us or to enforce judgment upon us for civil liabilities in United States courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we are incorporated or where our assets are located (1) would enforce judgments of United States courts obtained in actions against us based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable United States federal and state securities laws or (2) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us based upon these laws. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 