risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in us. Risks Related to Our Business We may be unable to achieve our investment objective if we are unable to manage our investments effectively. Our ability to achieve our investment objective depends on our ability to manage our business, which depends, in turn, on the ability of the Advisor to identify, invest in and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result is largely a function of the Advisor’s investment process and, in conjunction with the Administrator, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us. Some of our executive officers and members of the Advisor’s investment committee have substantial responsibilities to other clients in addition to their activities and responsibilities on our behalf. The investment professionals dedicated to us may also be required to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. These demands on their time may distract them or slow our rate of investment. Any failure to manage our business effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we make. We compete with other BDCs, public and private funds, commercial and investment banks, CLO funds, commercial financing companies, insurance companies, high yield investors, hedge funds and, to the extent they provide an alternative form of financing, private equity funds. Moreover, alternative investment vehicles, such as hedge funds, have begun to invest in areas in which they have not traditionally invested, including making investments in middle market private U.S. companies. As a result of these new entrants, competition for investment opportunities in middle market private U.S. companies may intensify. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC and that the Code imposes on us as a RIC. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to pursue attractive investment opportunities from time to time. We do not seek to compete primarily based on the interest rates we offer and we believe that some of our competitors may make loans with interest rates that are comparable to or lower than the rates we offer. Rather, we compete with our competitors based on our existing investment platform, seasoned investment professionals, experience and focus on middle-market companies, disciplined investment philosophy, extensive industry focus and flexible transaction structuring. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure. If we match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure, we may experience decreased net interest income and increased risk of credit loss. As a result of operating in such a competitive environment, we may make investments that are on less favorable terms than what we may have originally anticipated, which may impact our return on these investments. We are dependent upon senior management personnel of our Advisor for our future success, and if our Advisor is unable to hire and retain qualified personnel or if our Advisor loses any member of its senior management team, our ability to achieve our investment objective could be significantly harmed. We depend on the members of senior management of the Advisor, particularly Steven F. Sterling and James Keenan, Managing Directors of the Advisor, and other key personnel for the identification, final selection, structuring, closing and monitoring of our investments. These employees of the Advisor have critical industry experience and relationships that we rely on to implement our business plan. Our future success depends on the continued service of our Advisor’s senior management team. The departure of any of the members of our Advisor’s senior management or a significant number of the members of its investment team could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective as well as our business, financial condition or results of operation. As a result, we may not be able to operate our business as we expect, and our ability to compete could be harmed, which could cause our operating results to suffer. There also could be no assurance the Advisor would replicate its historical success. In addition, we can offer no assurance that BlackRock Advisors, LLC will remain our investment adviser or that BlackRock Financial Management, Inc. will remain our administrator. Our Board of Directors may change our investment objective, operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval, the effect of which may be adverse. Our Board of Directors has the authority to modify or waive certain of our operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval (except as required by the 1940 Act). However, absent stockholder approval, we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or withdraw our election as, a BDC. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results or value of our common stock. Nevertheless, the effects could adversely affect our business and impact our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 19 Table of Contents Our Advisor has the right to resign on 60 days’ notice, and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Advisor has the right, under our Management Agreement, to resign at any time upon not less than 60 days’ written notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. If our Advisor resigns, we may not be able to find a new investment adviser or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 60 days, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as our ability to pay distributions are likely to be adversely affected and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and investment activities is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by our Advisor and its affiliates. Even if we are able to retain comparable management, whether internal or external, the integration of such management and their lack of familiarity with our investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Capital markets may experience periods of disruption and instability. Such market conditions may materially and adversely affect debt and equity capital markets in the United States and abroad, which may have a negative impact on our business and operations. From time to time, capital markets may experience periods of disruption and instability, which may be evidenced by a lack of liquidity in debt capital markets, write-offs in the financial services sector, re-pricing of credit risk and failure of certain major financial institutions. An example of such disruption and instability occurred between 2008 and 2009. During that period, despite actions of the U.S. federal government and foreign governments, such disruption and instability contributed to worsening general economic conditions that materially and adversely impacted the broader financial and credit markets and reduced the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole and financial services firms in particular. While capital markets have improved in recent years, these conditions could deteriorate again and global financial markets could experience significant volatility. During such market disruptions, we may have difficulty raising debt or equity capital especially as a result of regulatory constraints. There can be no assurance that adverse market conditions will not repeat themselves or worsen in the future. Equity capital may be difficult to raise during periods of adverse or volatile market conditions because, subject to some limited exceptions, as a BDC, we are generally not able to issue additional shares of our common stock at a price less than net asset value without first obtaining approval for such issuance from our stockholders and our independent directors. We generally seek approval from our stockholders so that we have the flexibility to issue up to 25% of our then outstanding shares of our common stock immediately prior to any such sale at a price below net asset value. Pursuant to approval granted at a special meeting of stockholders held on May 8, 2015, we currently are permitted to sell or otherwise issue shares of our common stock at a price below net asset value, subject to certain limitations and determinations that must be made by our board of directors. Such stockholder approval expires on May 8, 2016. Market conditions may in the future make it difficult to extend the maturity of or refinance our existing indebtedness and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. The re-appearance of market conditions similar to those experienced from 2008 through 2009 for any substantial length of time could make it difficult to extend the maturity of or refinance our existing indebtedness or obtain new indebtedness with similar terms and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. The debt capital that will be available to us in the future, if at all, may be at a higher cost and on less favorable terms and conditions than what we currently experience. Further, if we are unable to raise or refinance debt, then our equity investors may not benefit from the potential for increased returns on equity resulting from leverage and we may be limited in our ability to make new commitments or to fund existing commitments to our portfolio companies. 20 Table of Contents The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if required. As a result, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have recorded our investments. In addition, significant changes in the capital markets, including the disruption and volatility, have had, and may in the future have, a negative effect on the valuations of our investments and on the potential for liquidity events involving our investments. While most of our investments are not publicly traded, applicable accounting standards require us to assume as part of our valuation process that our investments are sold in a principal market to market participants (even if we plan on holding an investment through its maturity). An inability to raise capital, and any required sale of our investments for liquidity purposes, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Price declines and illiquidity in the corporate debt markets have adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, the fair value of our portfolio investments, reducing our net asset value through increased net unrealized depreciation. As a BDC, we are required to carry our investments at market value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at fair value as determined in good faith by or under the direction of our Board of Directors. Decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments are recorded as unrealized depreciation, which reduces our net asset value. Depending on market conditions, we could incur substantial realized losses and may suffer additional unrealized losses in future periods, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The downgrade of the U.S. credit rating, economic crisis in Europe, turbulence in the Chinese stock market and global commodity markets or otherwise could negatively impact our business, financial condition and earnings. Although U.S. lawmakers passed legislation to raise the federal debt ceiling and Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services affirmed its ‘AA+’ long-term sovereign credit rating on the United States and revised the outlook on the long-term rating from negative to stable in June of 2013, U.S. debt ceiling and budget deficit concerns together with signs of deteriorating sovereign debt conditions in Europe continue to present the possibility of a credit-rating downgrade, economic slowdowns, or a recession for the United States. The impact of any further downgrades to the U.S. government’s sovereign credit rating or downgraded sovereign credit ratings of European countries or the Russian Federation, or their perceived creditworthiness could adversely affect the U.S. and global financial markets and economic conditions. These developments, along with any further European sovereign debt issues, could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. Continued adverse economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2010, a financial crisis emerged in Europe, triggered by high budget deficits and rising direct and contingent sovereign debt in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, which created concerns about the ability of these nations to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. While the financial stability of many of such countries has improved significantly, risks resulting from any future debt crisis in Europe or any similar crisis could have a detrimental impact on the global economic recovery, sovereign and non-sovereign debt in these countries and the financial condition of European financial institutions. In July and August 2015, Greece reached agreements with its international creditors for bailouts that provide aid in exchange for austerity terms that had previously been rejected by Greek voters. Market and economic disruptions have affected, and may in the future affect, consumer confidence levels and spending, personal bankruptcy rates, levels of incurrence and default on consumer debt and home prices, among other factors. We cannot assure you that market disruptions in Europe, including the increased cost of funding for certain governments and financial institutions, will not impact the global economy, and we cannot assure you that assistance packages will be available, or if available, be sufficient to stabilize countries and markets in Europe or elsewhere affected by a financial crisis. To the extent uncertainty regarding any economic recovery in Europe negatively impacts consumer confidence and consumer credit factors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents In addition, stock prices in China have experienced a significant drop in the second quarter of 2015, resulting primarily from continued sell-off of shares trading in Chinese markets. In August 2015, Chinese authorities sharply devalued China’s currency. The volatility has been followed by volatility in stock markets around the world, including in the United States, as well as increased turbulence in commodity markets, such as reductions in prices of crude oil. Continued sell-off and price drops in the Chinese stock markets may have a contagion effect across the financial markets. These market and economic disruptions affected, and may in the future affect, the U.S. capital markets, which could adversely affect our business. Additionally, Russian intervention in Ukraine during 2014 significantly increased regional geopolitical tensions. The situation remains fluid with potential for further escalation of geopolitical tensions, increased severity of sanctions against Russian interests, and possible Russian counter-measures. Further economic sanctions could destabilize the economic environment and result in increased volatility. Should the economic recovery in the United States be adversely impacted by increased volatility in the global financial markets caused by developments in respect of the Russian sanctions, further turbulence in Chinese stock markets and global commodity markets or for any other reason, loan and asset growth and liquidity conditions at U.S. financial institutions, including us, may deteriorate. In October 2014, the Federal Reserve announced that it was concluding its bond-buying program, or quantitative easing, which was designed to stimulate the economy and expand the Federal Reserve’s holdings of long-term securities, suggesting that key economic indicators, such as the unemployment rate, had showed signs of improvement since the inception of the program. It is unclear what effect, if any, the conclusion of the Federal Reserve’s bond-buying program will have on credit markets and the value of our investments. However, it is possible that, without quantitative easing by the Federal Reserve, these developments, along with the United States government’s credit and deficit concerns and the European sovereign debt crisis, could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. Additionally, in July 2015, the Federal Reserve reaffirmed its view that the current target range for the federal funds rate was appropriate based on current economic conditions and that it would be appropriate to raise the rate when economic conditions improve further. However, if key economic indicators, such as the unemployment rate or inflation, do not progress at a rate consistent with the Federal Reserve’s objectives, the target range for the federal funds rate may increase and cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. Rising interest rates may adversely affect the value of our portfolio investments which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our debt investments may be based on floating rates, such as London Interbank Offer Rate (“LIBOR”), EURIBOR, the Federal Funds Rate or the Prime Rate. General interest rate fluctuations may have a substantial negative impact on our investments, the value of our common stock and our rate of return on invested capital. A reduction in the interest rates on new investments relative to interest rates on current investments could also have an adverse impact on our net interest income. An increase in interest rates could decrease the value of any investments we hold which earn fixed interest rates, including subordinated loans, senior and junior secured and unsecured debt securities and loans and high yield bonds, and also could increase our interest expense, thereby decreasing our net income. Also, an increase in interest rates available to investors could make investment in our common stock less attractive if we are not able to increase our dividend rate, which could reduce the value of our common stock. Because we have borrowed money, and may issue preferred stock to finance investments, our net investment income depends, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds or pay distributions on preferred stock and the rate that our investments yield. As a result, we can offer no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds would increase except to the extent we have issued fixed rate debt or preferred stock, which could reduce our net investment income. 22 Table of Contents You should also be aware that a change in the general level of interest rates can be expected to lead to a change in the interest rate we receive on many of our debt investments. Accordingly, a change in the interest rate could make it easier for us to meet or exceed the performance threshold and may result in a substantial increase in the amount of Incentive Fees payable to our Advisor with respect to the portion of the Incentive Fee based on income. Changes relating to the LIBOR calculation process may adversely affect the value of the LIBOR-indexed, floating-rate debt securities in our portfolio. In the recent past, concerns have been publicized that some of the member banks surveyed by the British Bankers’ Association (“BBA”) in connection with the calculation of LIBOR across a range of maturities and currencies may have been under-reporting or otherwise manipulating the inter-bank lending rate applicable to them in order to profit on their derivatives positions or to avoid an appearance of capital insufficiency or adverse reputational or other consequences that may have resulted from reporting inter-bank lending rates higher than those they actually submitted. A number of BBA member banks entered into settlements with their regulators and law enforcement agencies with respect to alleged manipulation of LIBOR, and investigations by regulators and governmental authorities in various jurisdictions are ongoing. Actions by the BBA, regulators or law enforcement agencies as a result of these or future events, may result in changes to the manner in which LIBOR is determined. Potential changes, or uncertainty related to such potential changes may adversely affect the market for LIBOR-based securities, including our portfolio of LIBOR-indexed, floating-rate debt securities. In addition, any further changes or reforms to the determination or supervision of LIBOR may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in reported LIBOR, which could have an adverse impact on the market for LIBOR-based securities or the value of our portfolio of LIBOR-indexed, floating-rate debt securities. In addition to regulatory restrictions that restrict our ability to raise capital, our debt arrangements contain various covenants which, if not complied with, could accelerate repayment of our debt, thereby materially and adversely affecting our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. The agreements governing our Credit Facility and Senior Secured Notes require us to comply with certain financial and operational covenants. These covenants include: • restrictions on the level of indebtedness that we are permitted to incur in relation to the value of our assets; • restrictions on our ability to incur liens; and • maintenance of a minimum level of stockholders’ equity. As of December 31, 2015, we were in compliance with all applicable covenants for our outstanding borrowings. However, our continued compliance with these covenants depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, there are no assurances that we will continue to comply with the covenants in our debt arrangements. Failure to comply with these covenants would result in a default under these arrangements which, if we were unable to obtain a waiver from the lenders thereunder, could result in an acceleration of repayments on our debt and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The disposition of our investments may result in contingent liabilities. Most of our investments will involve private securities. In connection with the disposition of an investment in private securities, we may be required to make representations about the business and financial affairs of the portfolio company typical of those made in connection with the sale of a business. We may also be required to indemnify the purchasers of such investment to the extent that any such representations turn out to be inaccurate or with respect to certain potential liabilities. These arrangements may result in contingent liabilities that ultimately yield funding obligations that must be satisfied through our return of certain distributions previously made to us. We do not believe contingent liabilities were material at December 31, 2015. 23 Table of Contents Substantially all of our assets are subject to security interests under our borrowings and if we default on our obligations, we may suffer adverse consequences, including the lenders foreclosing on our assets. As of December 31, 2015, substantially all of our assets were pledged as collateral under our Credit Facility. If we default on our obligations under the Credit Facility, the lenders may have the right to foreclose upon and sell, or otherwise transfer, the collateral subject to their security interests. In such event, we may be forced to sell our investments to raise funds to repay our outstanding borrowings in order to avoid foreclosure and these forced sales may be at times and at prices we would not consider advantageous. Moreover, such deleveraging of our company could significantly impair our ability to effectively operate our business in the manner in which we have historically operated. As a result, we could be forced to curtail or cease new investment activities and lower or eliminate the distributions that we pay to our stockholders. In addition, if the lenders exercise their right to sell the assets pledged under our borrowings, such sales may be completed at distressed sale prices, thereby diminishing or potentially eliminating the amount of cash available to us after repayment of the amounts outstanding. Our Credit Facility matures in March 2019, and any inability to renew, extend or replace our Credit Facility could adversely impact our liquidity and ability to find new investments or maintain distributions to our stockholders. We maintain a multi-currency $405 million senior secured credit facility with a group of lenders, under which we had approximately $60.0 million of indebtedness outstanding at December 31, 2015. Availability under our Credit Facility was $345.0 million at December 31, 2015. The Credit Facility’s commitment may increase in size, under certain circumstances, up to a total of $750 million. The Credit Facility has a stated maturity date of March 27, 2019. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew, extend or replace the Credit Facility upon its maturity on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Our ability to renew, extend or replace the Credit Facility will be constrained by then-current economic conditions affecting the credit markets. In the event that we are not able to renew, extend or replace the Credit Facility at the time of its maturity, this could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and ability to fund new investments, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and our ability to qualify as a RIC. Our five-year Senior Secured Notes mature in January 2016 and our seven-year Senior Secured Notes mature in January 2018, and any inability to replace or repay our Senior Secured Notes could adversely impact our liquidity and ability to fund new investments or maintain distributions to our stockholders. In January 2011, we closed a private placement issuance of $158 million in aggregate principal amount of five-year, senior secured notes with a fixed interest rate of 6.50% and a maturity date of January 18, 2016 and $17 million in aggregate principal amount of seven-year senior secured notes with a fixed interest rate of 6.60% and a maturity date of January 18, 2018. There can be no assurance that we will be able to replace the Senior Secured Notes upon their maturity on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Our ability to replace the Senior Secured Notes will be constrained by then-current economic conditions affecting the credit markets. In the event that we are not able to replace or repay the Senior Secured Notes at the time of their maturity, this could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and ability to fund new investments, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and our ability to qualify as a RIC. Our five-year Convertible Notes are due in February 2018. Any inability to replace or repay our Convertible Notes could adversely impact our liquidity and ability to fund new investments or maintain distributions to our stockholders. Conversion of the Convertible Notes to shares of the Company’s common stock could result in dilution per share for existing shareholders. On February 19, 2013 we closed a private offering of $100 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.50% unsecured convertible senior notes due 2018 (the “Convertible Notes”). The initial purchasers of the Convertible Notes fully exercised their overallotment option and purchased an additional $15 million in aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Notes. The closing of the overallotment option took place on March 4, 2013. With the exercise of the overallotment option, a total of $115 million in aggregate principal amount of the Convertible 24 Table of Contents Notes have been sold. Net proceeds to the Company from the offering, including the exercise of the overallotment option, are approximately $111.3 million. The Convertible Notes were only offered to qualified institutional buyers as defined in the Securities Act pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act. The Convertible Notes are unsecured and bear interest at a rate of 5.50% per year, payable semi-annually in arrears. In certain circumstances and during certain periods, the Convertible Notes are convertible into cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, at our election, at an initial conversion rate of 86.0585 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the Convertible Notes, which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $11.62 per share of our common stock, subject to defined anti-dilution adjustments. We do not have the right to redeem the Convertible Notes prior to maturity. The Convertible Notes mature on February 15, 2018, unless repurchased or converted in accordance with their terms prior to such date. There can be no assurance that we will be able to replace the Convertible Notes upon their maturity on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Our ability to replace the Convertible Notes will be constrained by then-current economic conditions affecting the credit markets. In the event that we are not able to replace or repay the Convertible Notes at the time of their maturity, this could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and ability to fund new investments, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and our ability to qualify as a RIC. If we incur additional debt, it could increase the risk of investing in our common stock. We have indebtedness outstanding pursuant to our Credit Facility and may enter into new facilities and/or may increase the size of our existing credit facilities. We currently have outstanding $175 million of Senior Secured Notes, $115 million of Convertible Notes and $15 million of a term loan. Lenders under our Credit Facility, Senior Secured Notes and Convertible Senior Notes have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our common stockholders or any preferred stockholders. We have granted a security interest in our assets in connection with our Credit Facility and Senior Secured Notes. In the case of a liquidation event, those lenders would receive proceeds before our stockholders. In addition, borrowings, also known as leverage, magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and, therefore, increase the risks associated with investing in our common stock. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique. If the value of our assets increases, then leveraging would cause the net asset value attributable to our common stock to increase more than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Conversely, if the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause the net asset value attributable to our common stock to decline more than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any increase in our revenue in excess of interest expense on our borrowed funds would cause our net income to increase more than it would without the leverage. Any decrease in our revenue would cause our net income to decline more than it would have had we not borrowed funds and could negatively affect our ability to make distributions on our common stock. Our ability to service any debt that we incur depends largely on our financial performance and is subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. As a BDC, we generally are required to meet an asset coverage ratio of total assets to total borrowings and other senior securities, which include all of our borrowings and any preferred stock we may issue in the future, of at least 200%. This means that for every $100 of net assets, we may raise $100 from senior securities, such as borrowings or issuing secured stock. If this ratio declines below 200%, we may not be able to incur additional debt and may need to sell a portion of our investments to repay some debt when it is disadvantageous to do so, and we may not be able to make distributions. Illustration. The following table illustrates the effect of leverage on returns from an investment in our common stock assuming various annual returns, net of expenses. The calculations in the table below are hypothetical and actual returns may be higher or lower than those appearing below. The calculation is based on our level of borrowing at December 31, 2015, which represented borrowings equal to 32% of our total assets. On such date, we also had $1,150.3 million in total assets; an average cost of funds of 5.7%; $364.5 million in debt 25 Table of Contents outstanding; and $753.8 million of total net assets. In order to compute the “Corresponding Return to Common Stockholders,” the “Assumed Return on Portfolio (Net of Expenses Other than Interest)” is multiplied by the total value of our assets at December 31, 2015 to obtain an assumed return to us. From this amount, the interest expense calculated by multiplying the interest rate of 5.7% by the $364.5 million debt is subtracted to determine the return available to stockholders. The return available to stockholders is then divided by the total value of our net assets at December 31, 2015 to determine the “Corresponding Return to Common Stockholders.” Actual interest payments may be different. Assumed Return on Portfolio (Net of Expenses Other than Interest)(1) -10% -5% 0% 5% 10% Corresponding Return to Common Stockholders -18.0% -10.4% -2.7% 4.9% 12.5% (1) The assumed portfolio return in the table is based on SEC regulations and is not a prediction of, and does not represent, our projected or actual performance. The table also assumes that we will maintain a constant level of leverage. The amount of leverage that we use will vary from time to time. Our use of borrowed funds to make investments exposes us to risks typically associated with leverage. We borrow money and may issue additional debt securities or preferred stock to leverage our capital structure. As a result: • shares of our common stock are exposed to incremental risk of loss; therefore, a decrease in the value of our investments would have a greater negative impact on the value of our common shares than if we did not use leverage; • adverse changes in interest rates could reduce or eliminate the incremental income we make with the proceeds of any leverage; • our ability to make distributions on our common stock will be restricted if our asset coverage ratio is not at least 200% and any amounts used to service indebtedness or preferred stock may not be available for such distributions; • such securities are governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility; • we, and indirectly our stockholders, bear the cost of issuing and paying interest or making distributions on such securities; and • any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock. We may not make distributions and consequently will be subject to corporate-level income tax. We intend to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We may not be able to achieve operating results that will allow us to make distributions at a specific level or to increase the amount of these distributions from time to time. In addition, due to the asset coverage test applicable to us as a BDC, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. Also, restrictions and provisions in our existing and any future debt arrangements may limit our ability to make distributions. If we do not distribute a certain percentage of our income annually, we could fail to qualify for tax treatment as a RIC, and we would be subject to corporate-level federal income tax. We cannot assure you that you will receive distributions at a particular level or at all. A portion of our distributions to stockholders may include a return of stockholder capital. We intend to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. A portion of such distributions may include a return of stockholder capital. Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits are considered non-taxable distributions and serve to reduce the basis of our shares in the hands of the common stockholders rather than being currently taxable as a result of the reduction of the basis of our shares, common shareholders may incur additional capital gains taxes or may have lower capital losses. 26 Table of Contents We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and tax regulations, we include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as payment-in-kind, or PIK, interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. The increases in loan balances as a result of contracted PIK arrangements are included in income for the period in which such PIK interest was received, which is often in advance of receiving cash payment. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we will not receive in cash. Any warrants that we receive in connection with our debt investments are generally valued as part of the negotiation process with the particular portfolio company. As a result, a portion of the aggregate purchase price for the debt investments and warrants are allocated to the warrants that we receive. This will generally result in “original issue discount,” or OID, for tax purposes, which we must recognize as ordinary income, increasing the amounts we are required to distribute to qualify for the federal income tax benefits applicable to RICs. Because such original issue discount income would not be accompanied by cash, we would need to obtain cash from other sources to satisfy such distribution requirements. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources to satisfy such distribution requirements, we may fail to qualify for favorable tax treatment as a RIC and, thus, could become subject to a corporate-level income tax on all of our income. Other features of the debt instruments that we hold may also cause such instruments to generate original issue discount, resulting in a distribution requirement in excess of current cash received. Since in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the requirement to distribute at least 90% of our net ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any. If we are unable to meet these distribution requirements, we will not qualify for favorable tax treatment as a RIC or, even if such distribution requirements are satisfied, we may be subject to tax on the amount that is undistributed. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our assets, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investment originations to meet these distribution requirements and avoid tax. See “Material U.S. Federal Tax Matters.” To the extent OID and PIK interest constitute a portion of our income, we will be exposed to typical risks associated with such income being required to be included in taxable and accounting income prior to receipt of cash representing such income. Our investments may include OID instruments and PIK interest arrangements, which represents contractual interest added to a loan balance and due at the end of such loan’s term. To the extent OID or PIK interest constitute a portion of our income, we are exposed to typical risks associated with such income being required to be included in taxable and accounting income prior to receipt of cash, including the following: • The higher interest rates of OID and PIK instruments reflect the payment deferral and increased credit risk associated with these instruments, and OID and PIK instruments generally represent a significantly higher credit risk than coupon loans. • Even if the accounting conditions for income accrual are met, the borrower could still default when our actual collection is supposed to occur at the maturity of the obligation. • OID and PIK instruments may have unreliable valuations because their continuing accruals require continuing judgments about the collectability of the deferred payments and the value of any associated collateral. OID and PIK income may also create uncertainty about the source of our cash distributions. • For accounting purposes, any cash distributions to shareholders representing OID and PIK income are not treated as coming from paid-in capital, even if the cash to pay them comes from offering proceeds. As a result, despite the fact that a distribution representing OID and PIK income could be paid out of amounts invested by our stockholders, the 1940 Act does not require that stockholders be given notice of this fact by reporting it as a return of capital. • PIK interest has the effect of generating investment income at a compounding rate, thereby further increasing the Incentive Fees payable to the Advisor. Similarly, all things being equal, the deferral associated with PIK interest also decreases the loan-to-value ratio at a compounding rate. 27 Table of Contents Because we are required to distribute substantially all of our net investment income and net realized capital gains to our stockholders, we will continue to need additional capital to finance our growth. We have elected to be treated for federal income tax purposes as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code. If we can meet certain requirements, including source of income, asset diversification and distribution requirements, and if we continue to qualify as a BDC, we will continue to qualify to be a RIC under the Code and will not have to pay corporate-level taxes on income we distribute to our stockholders, allowing us to substantially reduce or eliminate our corporate-level tax liability. As a BDC, we are generally required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets to total senior securities, which includes all of our borrowings and any preferred stock we may issue in the future, of at least 200%. This requirement limits the amount that we may borrow. Because we will continue to need capital to grow our investment portfolio, this limitation may prevent us from incurring debt and require us to raise additional equity at a time when it may be disadvantageous to do so. We cannot assure you that debt and equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, and debt financings may be restricted by the terms of any of our outstanding borrowings. In addition, as a BDC, we are generally not permitted to issue equity securities priced below net asset value without stockholder approval. If additional funds are not available to us, we could be forced to curtail or cease new lending and investment activities, and our net asset value and profitability could decline. Any unrealized losses we experience on our investment portfolio may be an indication of future realized losses, which could reduce our income available for distribution. Decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments will be recorded as unrealized depreciation. Any unrealized losses in our investment portfolio could be an indication of a portfolio company’s inability to meet its repayment obligations to us with respect to the affected investments. This could result in realized losses in the future and ultimately in reductions of our income available for distribution in future periods. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, stockholders could lose confidence in our financial and other public reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure controls and procedures, are designed to prevent fraud. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, any testing by us conducted in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm (when undertaken, as noted below), may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses or that may require prospective or retroactive changes to our consolidated financial statements or identify other areas for further attention or improvement. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors and lenders to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Our Advisor and its affiliates and employees may have certain conflicts of interest. The Advisor, its employees and members of its investment committee serve or may serve as investment advisers, officers, directors or principals of entities or investment funds that operate in the same or a related line of business as us and/or of investment funds managed by our affiliates. Accordingly, these individuals may have obligations to investors in those entities or funds, the fulfillment of which might not be in our best interests or the best interests of our stockholders. In addition, we note that any affiliated investment vehicle currently formed or formed in the future and managed by the Advisor or its affiliates may have overlapping investment objectives with our own and, accordingly, may invest in asset classes similar to those targeted by us. As a result, the Advisor and/or its affiliates may face conflicts in allocating investment opportunities between us and such other entities. Although the Advisor and its affiliates will endeavor to allocate investment opportunities in a fair and equitable manner and consistent with applicable allocation procedures, it is possible that, in the future, we may 28 Table of Contents not be given the opportunity to participate in investments made by investment funds managed by the Advisor or its affiliates. In any such case, if the Advisor forms other affiliates in the future, we may co-invest on a concurrent basis with such other affiliates, subject to compliance with applicable regulations and regulatory guidance, as well as applicable allocation procedures. In certain circumstances, negotiated co-investments may be made only if we receive an order from the SEC permitting us to do so. There can be no assurance when any such order would be obtained or that one will be obtained at all. BlackRock, the ultimate parent company of the Advisor, and its affiliates, which include the Advisor and PNC, are involved worldwide with a broad spectrum of financial services and asset management activities and may engage in the ordinary course of business in activities in which their interests or the interests of their clients may conflict with our interests. BlackRock and its affiliates may provide investment management services to other funds and discretionary managed accounts that follow an investment program similar to ours. BlackRock and its affiliates intend to engage in such activities and may receive compensation from third parties for their services. Neither BlackRock nor its affiliates are under any obligation to share any investment opportunity, idea or strategy with us. As a result, BlackRock and its affiliates may compete with us for appropriate investment opportunities. The results of our investment activities, therefore, may differ from those of an affiliate or another account managed by an affiliate of BlackRock and it is possible that we could sustain losses during periods in which one or more affiliates of BlackRock and other accounts achieve profits on their trading for proprietary or other accounts. The 1940 Act imposes limitations on certain transactions between a business development company, a registered investment company and affiliated persons of the business development company or registered investment company, as well as affiliated persons of such affiliated persons. Among others, affiliated persons of a business development company or registered investment company include its investment adviser; officers; directors/trustees; any person who directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such business development company or registered investment company; any person directly or indirectly owning, controlling or holding with power to vote, five percent or more of the outstanding voting securities of such business development or registered investment company; and any person five percent or more of whose outstanding voting securities are directly or indirectly owned, controlled or held with power to vote by such business development company or registered investment company. BlackRock has adopted policies and procedures designed to address potential conflicts of interest. Our base management fee may induce our Advisor to cause us to incur additional leverage. Our base management fee for the initial two years of our investment management agreement is calculated on the basis of our total assets and is calculated on the basis of total assets (excluding cash) thereafter, in each case including assets acquired with the proceeds of leverage. This may encourage the Advisor to use leverage to increase the aggregate amount of and the return on our investments, even when it may not be appropriate to do so, and to refrain from delevering when it would otherwise be appropriate to do so. Under certain circumstances, the use of increased leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would impair the value of our common stock. Given the subjective nature of the investment decisions made by our Adviser on our behalf, we will not be able to monitor this conflict of interest. Our Incentive Fee structure and the formula for calculating the Incentive Fee may incentivize our Advisor to pursue speculative investments. The Incentive Fee payable by us to the Advisor may create an incentive for the Advisor to pursue investments on our behalf that are riskier or more speculative than would otherwise be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. The Incentive Fee payable to the Advisor is calculated based on a percentage of distributions on our common stock. The Incentive Fee payable by us to the Advisor also may induce the Advisor to invest on our behalf in instruments that have a deferred interest feature, even if such deferred payments would not provide cash necessary to enable us to pay current distributions to our stockholders. Under these investments, we would accrue interest over the life of the investment but would not receive the cash income from the investment until the end of the term, if at all. Our net investment income used to calculate the income portion of our Incentive Fee, however, will include accrued interest. Thus, a portion of this Incentive Fee would be based on 29 Table of Contents income that we have not yet received in cash and may never receive in cash if the portfolio company is unable to satisfy such interest payment obligation to us. The foregoing risks could be increased because the Advisor is not obligated to reimburse us for any Incentive Fee received even if we subsequently incur losses or never receive in cash income that was previously accrued. We may not replicate the success of BlackRock Advisors, LLC. As of March 6, 2015, we are no longer managed by Blackrock Kelso Capital Advisors LLC. We can provide no assurance that we will replicate our historical performance when we were managed by BlackRock Kelso Capital Advisors LLC and our investment returns may be substantially lower than our returns when we were managed by BlackRock Kelso Capital Advisors LLC. Accordingly, we can offer no assurance that the Advisor will be able to implement our investment objective with the same degree of success as BlackRock Kelso Capital Advisors LLC had in the past or that shares of our common stock will trade at or above the current level. We are not managed by BlackRock, but rather one of its subsidiaries and may not replicate the success of that entity. Our performance may be lower or higher than the performance of other entities managed by BlackRock or its affiliates and their past performance is no guarantee of our future results. We may not replicate the success of BlackRock. Our investment strategies differ from those of BlackRock or its affiliates. As a BDC, we are subject to certain investment restrictions that do not apply to BlackRock. Our performance may be lower or higher than the performance of other entities managed by BlackRock or its affiliates and their past performance is no guarantee of our future results. Our business model depends upon the development and maintenance of strong referral relationships with other asset managers and investment banking firms. We are substantially dependent on our informal relationships, which we use to help identify and gain access to investment opportunities. If we fail to maintain our relationships with key firms, or if we fail to establish strong referral relationships with other firms or other sources of investment opportunities, we will not be able to grow our portfolio of investments and achieve our investment objective. In addition, persons with whom we have informal relationships are not obligated to inform us of investment opportunities, and therefore such relationships may not lead to the origination of equity or other investments. Any loss or diminishment of such relationships could effectively reduce our ability to identify attractive portfolio companies that meet our investment criteria, either for direct investments or for investments through private secondary market transactions or other secondary transactions. Our Advisor’s liability is limited under the investment management agreement, and we are required to indemnify our Advisor against certain liabilities, which may lead our Advisor to act in a riskier manner on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account. Our Advisor has not assumed any responsibility to us other than to render the services described in the investment management agreement, and it will not be responsible for any action of our Board of Directors in declining to follow our Advisor’s advice or recommendations. Pursuant to the investment management agreement, our Advisor and its members and their respective officers, managers, partners, agents, employees, controlling persons and members and any other person or entity affiliated with it will not be liable to us for their acts under the investment management agreement, absent willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard in the performance of their duties. We have agreed to indemnify, defend and protect our Advisor and its members and their respective officers, managers, partners, agents, employees, controlling persons and members and any other person or entity affiliated with it with respect to all damages, liabilities, costs and 30 Table of Contents expenses resulting from acts of our Advisor not arising out of willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard in the performance of their duties under the investment and management agreement. These protections may lead our Advisor to act in a riskier manner when acting on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account. We may not replicate the historical performance of other investment companies and funds with which our investment professionals have been affiliated. The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the investment activities of BDCs. For example, BDCs are required to invest at least 70% of their total assets primarily in securities of U.S. private companies or thinly traded public companies (public companies with a market capitalization of less than $250 million), cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and high-quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. These constraints may hinder our Advisor’s ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and to achieve our investment objectives. In addition, the investment philosophy and techniques used by our Advisor may differ from those used by other investment companies and funds advised by our Advisor. Accordingly, we can offer no assurance that we will replicate the historical performance of other investment companies and funds with which our investment professionals have been affiliated, and we caution that our investment returns could be substantially lower than the returns achieved by such other companies. Substantially all of our portfolio investments are recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by or under the direction of our Board of Directors and, as a result, there is uncertainty regarding the value of our portfolio investments. There is not a readily available market value for substantially all of the investments in our portfolio. We value these investments quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith under the direction of our Board of Directors using a consistently applied valuation process in accordance with a documented valuation policy that has been reviewed and approved by our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors utilizes the services of one or more independent valuation firms to aid in determining the fair value of these investments. Due to the inherent uncertainty and subjectivity of determining the fair value of investments that do not have a readily available market value, the fair value of our investments may differ significantly from the values that would have been used had a readily available market value existed for such investments and may differ materially from the amounts we realize on any dispositions of such investments. In addition, the impact of changes in the market environment and other events on the fair values of our investments that have no readily available market values may differ from the impact of such changes on the readily available market values for our other investments. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such investments. We may in the future determine to fund a portion of our investments by issuing preferred stock, which would magnify the potential gains or losses and the risks of investing in us in the same manner as our borrowings. Preferred stock, which is another form of leverage, has the same risks to our common stockholders as borrowings because the dividends on any preferred stock we issue must be cumulative. Payment of such dividends and repayment of the liquidation preference of such preferred stock must take preference over any dividends or other payments to our common stockholders and preferred stockholders are not subject to any of our expenses or losses, and are not entitled to participate in any income or appreciation in excess of their stated preference. The issuance of shares of preferred stock with dividend or conversion rights, liquidation preferences or other economic terms favorable to the holders of preferred stock could adversely affect the market price for our common stock by making an investment in the common stock less attractive. In addition, the dividends on any preferred stock we issue must be cumulative. Payment of dividends and repayment of the liquidation preference of preferred stock must take preference over any dividends or other payments to our common stockholders, and 31 Table of Contents holders of preferred stock are not subject to any of our expenses or losses and are not entitled to participate in any income or appreciation in excess of their stated preference (other than convertible preferred stock that converts into common stock). In addition, under the 1940 Act, preferred stock constitutes a “senior security” for purposes of the 200% asset coverage test. We may experience fluctuations in our periodic results. We could experience fluctuations in our periodic results due to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including our ability to make investments in companies that meet our investment criteria, the interest rates payable on the debt investments we make, the default rate on such investments, the level of our expenses (including the interest rates payable on our borrowings and the dividend rates on any preferred stock we may issue), variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Changes in interest rates may affect our cost of capital and net investment income. General interest rate fluctuations may have a substantial negative impact on our investments, the value of our common stock and our rate of return on invested capital. A reduction in the interest rates on new investments relative to interest rates on current investments could also have an adverse impact on our net investment income. An increase in interest rates could decrease the value of any investments we hold which earn fixed interest rates, including subordinated loans, senior and junior secured and unsecured debt securities and loans and high-yield bonds, and also could increase our interest expense, thereby decreasing our net investment income. Also, an increase in interest rates available to investors could make investment in our common stock less attractive if we are not able to increase our distributions rate, which could reduce the value of our common stock. Terrorist attacks, acts of war, or national disasters may affect any market for our common stock, impact the businesses in which we invest, and harm our business, operating results, and financial conditions. Terrorist acts, acts of war, or national disasters have created, and continue to create, economic and political uncertainties and have contributed to global economic instability. Future terrorist activities, military or security operations, or national disasters could further weaken the domestic/global economies and create additional uncertainties, which may negatively impact the businesses in which we invest directly or indirectly and, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Losses from terrorist attacks and national disasters are generally uninsurable. We may experience cyber-security incidents and are subject to cyber-security risks. Our business operations rely upon secure information technology systems for data processing, storage and reporting. Despite careful security and controls design, implementation and updating, our information technology systems could become subject to cyber-attacks. Cyber-attacks include, but are not limited to, gaining unauthorized access to digital systems (e.g., through “hacking” or malicious software coding) for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. Cyber-attacks may also be carried out in a manner that does not require gaining unauthorized access, such as causing denial-of-service attacks on websites (i.e., efforts to make network services unavailable to intended users). Network, system, application and data breaches could result in operational disruptions or information misappropriation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Cyber-security failures or breaches by our Advisor, any sub-adviser(s) and other service providers (including, but not limited to, accountants, custodians, transfer agents and administrators), and the issuers of securities in which we invest, have the ability to cause disruptions and impact business operations, potentially resulting in financial losses, interference with our ability to calculate its net asset value, impediments to trading, 32 Table of Contents the inability of our stockholders to transact business, violations of applicable privacy and other laws, regulatory fines, penalties, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, or additional compliance costs. In addition, substantial costs may be incurred in order to prevent any cyber incidents in the future. While we have established a business continuity plan in the event of, and risk management systems to prevent, such cyberattacks, there are inherent limitations in such plans and systems including the possibility that certain risks have not been identified. Furthermore, we cannot control the cyber security plans and systems put in place by our service providers and issuers in which we invest. We and our stockholders could be negatively impacted as a result. The failure in cyber-security systems, as well as the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning could impair our ability to conduct business effectively. The occurrence of a disaster such as a cyber-attack, a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a terrorist attack or war, events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems, or a support failure from external providers, could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those events affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage, and retrieval systems or destroy data. If a significant number of our managers were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct our business could be severely compromised. We depend heavily upon computer systems to perform necessary business functions. Despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our computer systems could be subject to cyber-attacks and unauthorized access, such as physical and electronic break-ins or unauthorized tampering. Like other companies, we may experience threats to our data and systems, including malware and computer virus attacks, unauthorized access, system failures and disruptions. If one or more of these events occurs, it could potentially jeopardize the confidential, proprietary and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations, which could result in damage to our reputation, financial losses, litigation, increased costs, regulatory penalties and/or customer dissatisfaction or loss. We are dependent on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends. Our business is dependent on our and third parties’ communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of those systems, including as a result of the termination of an agreement with any third-party service providers, could cause delays or other problems in our activities. Our financial, accounting, data processing, backup or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control and adversely affect our business. There could be: • sudden electrical or telecommunications outages; • natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes; • disease pandemics; • events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and • cyber-attacks. These events, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. 33 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Investments Our investments are risky and highly speculative, and we could lose all or part of our investment. Investing in private middle-market companies involves a high degree of risk and our financial results may be affected adversely if one or more of our significant portfolio investments defaults on its loans or fails to perform as we expect. We invest primarily in middle-market companies in the form of senior and junior secured and unsecured debt securities and loans, each of which may include an equity component, and by making direct preferred, common and other equity investments in such companies. Investing in private middle-market companies involves a number of significant risks, including these companies: • may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment; • typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; • are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; • generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position; • may have difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capital needs, which may limit their ability to grow or to repay their outstanding indebtedness upon maturity; • may name our executive officers, directors and the Advisor, in the ordinary course of business, as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in the portfolio companies; • generally have little public information; these companies and their financial information are not subject to the Exchange Act and other regulations that govern public companies, and we may be unable to uncover all material information about these companies, which may prevent us from making a fully informed investment decision and cause us to lose money on our investments; • may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations, as well as their interpretations, which may adversely affect the business, financial structure or prospects of these companies; and • may have difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capital needs. In addition, in the course of providing significant managerial assistance to certain of our portfolio companies, certain of our officers and directors may serve as directors on the boards of such companies. To the extent that litigation arises out of our investments in these companies, our officers and directors may be named as defendants in such litigation, which could result in an expenditure of funds (through our indemnification of such officers and directors) and the diversion of management time and resources. Because our investments are generally not in publicly traded securities, there will be uncertainty regarding the value of our investments, which could adversely affect the determination of our net asset value. Our portfolio investments will generally not be in publicly traded securities. As a result, although we expect that some of our equity investments may trade on private secondary marketplaces, the fair value of our direct investments in portfolio companies will often not be readily determinable. Under the 1940 Act, for our 34 Table of Contents investments for which there are no readily available market quotations, including securities that while listed on a private securities exchange, have not actively traded, we will value such securities at fair value quarterly as determined in good faith by or under the direction of our Board of Directors. In connection with that determination, members of our Advisor’s portfolio management team will prepare portfolio company valuations using, where available, the most recent portfolio company financial statements and forecasts. The Board of Directors utilizes the services of an independent valuation firm, which prepares valuations for each of our portfolio investments that are not publicly traded or for which we do not have readily available market quotations, including securities that while listed on a private securities exchange, have not actively traded. However, the Board of Directors retains ultimate authority as to the appropriate valuation of each such investment. The types of factors that the Board of Directors takes into account in determining fair value with respect to such non-traded investments includes, as relevant and, to the extent available, the portfolio company’s earnings, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to valuations of publicly traded companies, comparisons to recent sales of comparable companies, the discounted value of the cash flows of the portfolio company and other relevant factors. This information may not be available because it is difficult to obtain financial and other information with respect to private companies, and even where we are able to obtain such information, there can be no assurance that it is complete or accurate. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would be assessed if a readily available market for these securities existed. Due to this uncertainty, our fair value determinations with respect to any non-traded investments we hold may cause our net asset value on a given date to materially understate or overstate the value that we may ultimately realize on one or more of our investments. As a result, investors purchasing our securities based on an overstated net asset value would pay a higher price than the value of our investments might warrant. Conversely, investors selling securities during a period in which the net asset value understates the value of our investments will receive a lower price for their securities than the value of our investments might warrant. We and the Advisor may be a party to legal proceedings in connection with our investments in our portfolio companies. From time to time, we and the Advisor may be a party to certain legal proceedings incidental to the normal course of our business, including the enforcement of our rights under contracts with our portfolio companies. While we cannot predict the outcome of these legal proceedings with certainty, we do not expect that these proceedings will have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. We have been named as a defendant, together with 52nd Street Capital Advisors LLC, our former investment adviser, and certain other defendants, in two wrongful death and personal injury actions filed in West Virginia involving a fatal accident that occurred on December 9, 2010, at the facilities of one of our portfolio companies. The cases, which have been consolidated, involve three deaths and personal injuries to other employees. We and 52nd Street Capital Advisors LLC filed motions to dismiss in both cases. On June 18, 2015, the court entered an order denying those motions, and the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia subsequently denied our writ seeking review of that ruling. On August 19, 2015, the Court entered a separate order releasing certain insurance proceeds to the estates of the deceased workers. On October 16, 2015, the trial court granted Defendant AL Solutions, Inc.’s motion for partial summary judgment seeking to void certain contracts to the extent we, 52nd Street Capital Advisors, and another defendant sought contractual indemnification with respect to the subject lawsuits. We have appealed that ruling to the West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals, which is pending. Summary judgment motions are presently due on or before August 30, 2016, and trial is scheduled to commence on September 8, 2016. At this time it is not possible to predict with a reasonable degree of certainty the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome or the range of a potential loss, if any. An investment strategy focused primarily on privately held companies presents certain challenges, including the lack of available information about these companies. We invest primarily in privately held companies. Generally, little public information exists about these companies. We must therefore rely on the ability of our investment adviser to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential risks of investing in these companies. These companies and their financial information 35 Table of Contents generally are not subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other rules that govern public companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments. These factors could affect our investment returns. Our investments in lower credit quality obligations are risky and highly speculative, and we could lose all or part of our investment. Most of our debt investments are likely to be in lower grade obligations. The lower grade investments in which we invest may be rated below investment grade by one or more nationally-recognized statistical rating agencies at the time of investment or may be unrated but determined by the Advisor to be of comparable quality. Debt securities rated below investment grade are commonly referred to as “junk bonds” and are considered speculative with respect to the issuer’s capacity to pay interest and repay principal. The debt that we invest in typically is not initially rated by any rating agency, but we believe that if such investments were rated, they would be below investment grade (rated lower than “Baa3” by Moody’s Investors Service, lower than “BBB-” by Fitch Ratings or lower than “BBB-” by Standard & Poor’s). We may invest without limit in debt of any rating, as well as debt that has not been rated by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization. Investment in lower grade investments involves a substantial risk of loss. Lower grade securities or comparable unrated securities are considered predominantly speculative with respect to the issuer’s ability to pay interest and principal and are susceptible to default or decline in market value due to adverse economic and business developments. The market values for lower grade debt tend to be very volatile and are less liquid than investment grade securities. For these reasons, your investment in our company is subject to the following specific risks: increased price sensitivity to a deteriorating economic environment; greater risk of loss due to default or declining credit quality; adverse company specific events are more likely to render the issuer unable to make interest and/or principal payments; and if a negative perception of the lower grade debt market develops, the price and liquidity of lower grade securities may be depressed. This negative perception could last for a significant period of time. Any investments in distressed debt obligations may not produce income and may require us to bear large expenses in order to protect and recover our investment. At times, distressed debt obligations may not produce income and may require us to bear certain extraordinary expenses (including legal, accounting, valuation and transaction expenses) in order to protect and recover our investment. Therefore, to the extent we invest in distressed debt, our ability to achieve current income for our stockholders may be diminished. We also will be subject to significant uncertainty as to when and in what manner and for what value the distressed debt we invest in will eventually be satisfied (e.g., through liquidation of the obligor’s assets, an exchange offer or plan of reorganization involving the distressed debt securities or a payment of some amount in satisfaction of the obligation). In addition, even if an exchange offer is made or plan of reorganization is adopted with respect to distressed debt we hold, there can be no assurance that the securities or other assets received by us in connection with such exchange offer or plan of reorganization will not have a lower value or income potential than may have been anticipated when the investment was made. Moreover, any securities received by us upon completion of an exchange offer or plan of reorganization may be restricted as to resale. As a result of our participation in negotiations with respect to any exchange offer or plan of reorganization with respect to an issuer of distressed debt, we may be restricted from disposing of such securities. If we invest in preferred stock, we may incur additional risks. To the extent we invest in preferred securities, we may incur particular risks, including: • Preferred securities may include provisions that permit the issuer, at its discretion, to defer distributions for a stated period without any adverse consequences to the issuer. If we own a preferred security that is deferring its distributions, we may be required to report income for tax purposes before we receive 36 Table of Contents such distributions. Preferred securities are subordinated to bonds and other debt instruments in a company’s capital structure in terms of priority to corporate income and liquidation payments, and therefore will be subject to greater credit risk than more senior debt instruments; and • generally, preferred security holders have no voting rights with respect to the issuing company unless preferred dividends have been in arrears for a specified number of periods, at which time the preferred security holders may elect a number of directors to the issuer’s board. Generally, once all of the arrearages have been paid, the preferred security holders no longer have voting rights. Our equity investments may decline in value. The equity securities in which we invest may not appreciate or may decline in value. We may thus not be able to realize gains from our equity securities, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity securities may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. As a result, the equity securities in which we invest may decline in value, which may negatively impact our ability to pay distributions and cause you to lose all or part of your investment. We may expose ourselves to risks if we engage in hedging transactions. We may enter into hedging transactions, which could expose us to risks associated with such transactions. We may utilize instruments such as forward contracts and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions and amounts due under our debt arrangements from changes in market interest rates. Use of these hedging instruments may include counterparty credit risk. Utilizing such hedging instruments does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions and amounts due under our debt arrangements or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the underlying portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. The success of our hedging transactions will depend on our ability to correctly predict movements and interest rates. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings or debt arrangements being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. See also “—Changes in interest rates may affect our cost of capital and net investment income.” Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results. Many of our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay our loans during these periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets may increase and the value of our portfolio may decrease during these periods as we are required to record the values of our investments. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and harm our operating results. 37 Table of Contents The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. We make investments in private companies. A portion of these investments may be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale, transfer, pledge or other disposition or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. In addition, we face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a business entity to the extent that we or the Advisor has or could be deemed to have material non-public information regarding such business entity. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. Our portfolio companies usually will have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, debt securities in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying such senior creditors, the portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligations to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt securities in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. The rights we may have with respect to the collateral securing any junior priority loans we make to our portfolio companies may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements (including agreements governing “first out” and “last out” structures) that we enter into with the holders of senior debt. Under such an intercreditor agreement, at any time that senior obligations are outstanding, we may forfeit certain rights with respect to the collateral to the holders of the senior obligations. These rights may include the right to commence enforcement proceedings against the collateral, the right to control the conduct of such enforcement proceedings, the right to approve amendments to collateral documents, the right to release liens on the collateral and the right to waive past defaults under collateral documents. We may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if as a result our rights as junior lenders are adversely affected. When we are a debt or minority equity investor in a portfolio company, we are often not in a position to exert influence on the entity, and other equity holders and management of the company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings. When we make debt or minority equity investments, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree and the other equity holders and management of such company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests. As a result, a portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our investment. In addition, we may not be in a position to control any portfolio company by investing in its debt securities. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the management of such company, as representatives of the holders of its common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as debt investors. There may be circumstances in which our debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or we could be subject to lender liability claims. If one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, even though we may have structured our interest as senior debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt holding as an equity investment and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. In addition, lenders 38 Table of Contents can be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by them where they become too involved in the borrower’s business or exercise control over the borrower. For example, we could become subject to a lender’s liability claim, if, among other things, we actually render significant managerial assistance. Our portfolio companies may be highly leveraged. Some of our portfolio companies may be highly leveraged, which may have adverse consequences to these companies and to us as an investor. These companies may be subject to restrictive financial and operating covenants and the leverage may impair these companies’ ability to finance their future operations and capital needs. As a result, these companies’ flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to take advantage of business opportunities may be limited. Further, a leveraged company’s income and net assets will tend to increase or decrease at a greater rate than if borrowed money were not used. Because we generally do not hold controlling equity interests in our portfolio companies, we may not be in a position to exercise control over our portfolio companies or to prevent decisions by management of our portfolio companies that could decrease the value of our investments. We generally do not hold controlling equity positions in our portfolio companies. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and that the management and/or stockholders of a portfolio company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that are adverse to our interests. In addition, other stockholders, such as private or public funds, that have substantial investments in our portfolio companies may have interests that differ from that of the portfolio company or its minority stockholders, which may lead them to take actions that could materially and adversely affect the value of our investment in the portfolio company. Due to the lack of liquidity of the debt and equity investments that we typically hold in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to dispose of our investments in the event we disagree with the actions of a portfolio company and may therefore suffer a decrease in the value of our investments. Concentration of our assets in an issuer, industry or sector may present more risks than if we were more broadly diversified over numerous issuers, industries and sectors of the economy. We are classified as a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, which means that we are not limited by the 1940 Act with respect to the proportion of our assets that we may invest in securities of a single issuer. To the extent that we assume large positions in the securities of a small number of issuers, our net asset value may fluctuate to a greater extent than that of a diversified investment company as a result of changes in the financial condition or the market’s assessment of the issuer. We may also be more susceptible to any single economic or regulatory occurrence than a diversified investment company. In addition, we may, from time to time, invest a substantial portion of our assets in the securities of issuers in any single industry or sector of the economy or in only a few issuers. We cannot predict the industries or sectors in which our investment strategy may cause us to concentrate and cannot predict the level of our diversification among issuers to ensure that we satisfy diversification requirements for qualification as a RIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A downturn in an industry or sector in which we are concentrated would have a larger impact on us than on a company that does not concentrate in that particular industry or sector. Furthermore, the Advisor has not made and does not intend to make any determination as to the allocation of assets among different classes of securities. At any point in time we may be highly concentrated in a single type of asset, such as junior unsecured loans or distressed debt. Consequently, events which affect a particular asset class disproportionately could have an equally disproportionate effect on us. 39 Table of Contents Our failure to make follow-on investments in our portfolio companies could impair the value of our portfolio. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, we may make additional investments in that portfolio company as “follow-on” investments in order to: (i) increase or maintain in whole or in part our equity ownership percentage; (ii) exercise warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or any subsequent financing; or (iii) attempt to preserve or enhance the value of our investments. We may elect not to make follow-on investments or otherwise lack sufficient funds to make those investments. We will have the discretion to make any follow-on investments, subject to the availability of capital resources. The failure to make follow-on investments may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and our initial investment, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to maintain or increase our participation in a successful operation. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make a follow-on investment because we may not want to increase our concentration of risk, either because we prefer other opportunities or because we are subject to BDC requirements that would prevent such follow-on investments or the desire to maintain our RIC status. Our investments in foreign securities may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in U.S. investments. While we invest primarily in U.S. companies, our investment strategy contemplates that a portion of our investments may be in securities of foreign companies. Accordingly, we may invest on an opportunistic basis in certain non-U.S. companies, including those located in emerging markets, that otherwise meet our investment criteria. In regards to the regulatory requirements for business development companies, some of these investments may not qualify as investments in “eligible portfolio companies,” and thus may not be considered “qualifying assets.” “Eligible portfolio companies” generally include U.S. companies that are not investment companies and that do not have securities listed on a national exchange. If at any time less than 70% of our gross assets are comprised of qualifying assets, including as a result of an increase in the value of any non-qualifying assets or decrease in the value of any qualifying assets, we would generally not be permitted to acquire any additional non-qualifying assets until such time as 70% of our then current gross assets were comprised of qualifying assets. We would not be required, however, to dispose of any non-qualifying assets in such circumstances. In addition, investing in foreign companies, and particularly those in emerging markets, may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes (potentially at confiscatory levels), less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the U.S., higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. Further, we may have difficulty enforcing our rights as equity holders in foreign jurisdictions. In addition, to the extent we invest in non-U.S. companies, we may face greater exposure to foreign economic developments. Although most of our investments are denominated in U.S. dollars, our investments that are denominated in a foreign currency are subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency may change in relation to one or more other currencies. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation, and political developments. We may employ hedging techniques to minimize these risks, but we can offer no assurance that we will, in fact, hedge currency risk or, that if we do, such strategies will be effective. Our investments in the healthcare sector face considerable uncertainties including substantial regulatory challenges. Our investments in the healthcare sector are subject to substantial risks. The laws and rules governing the business of healthcare companies and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change. Broad latitude is given to the agencies administering those regulations. Existing or future laws and rules could 40 Table of Contents force our portfolio companies engaged in healthcare to change how they do business, restrict revenue, increase costs, change reserve levels, change business practices and increase liability in federal and state courts. Healthcare companies often must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of their products, change prices for certain regulated products and to consummate some of their acquisitions and divestitures. Delays in obtaining or failure to obtain or maintain these approvals could reduce revenue or increase costs. Policy changes on the local, state and federal level, such as the expansion of the government’s role in the health care arena and alternative assessments and tax increases specific to the healthcare industry or healthcare products as part of federal health care reform initiatives, could fundamentally change the dynamics of the healthcare industry. Our investments in the financial services sector are subject to various risks including volatility and extensive government regulation. These risks include the effects of changes in interest rates on the profitability of financial services companies, the rate of corporate and consumer debt defaults, price competition, governmental limitations on a company’s loans, other financial commitments, product lines and other operations and recent ongoing changes in the financial services industry (including consolidations, development of new products and changes to the industry’s regulatory framework). The deterioration of the credit markets starting in late 2007 generally has caused an adverse impact in a broad range of markets, including U.S. and international credit and interbank money markets generally, thereby affecting a wide range of financial institutions and markets. In particular, events in the financial sector in late 2008 resulted, and may continue to result, in an unusually high degree of volatility in the financial markets, both domestic and foreign. This situation has created instability in the financial markets and caused certain financial services companies to incur large losses. Insurance companies have additional risks, such as heavy price competition, claims activity and marketing competition, and can be particularly sensitive to specific events such as man-made and natural disasters (including weather catastrophes), terrorism, mortality risks and morbidity rates. Our investments in the consumer products sector are subject to various risks including cyclical risks associated with the overall economy. General risks of companies in the consumer products sector include cyclicality of revenues and earnings, economic recession, currency fluctuations, changing consumer tastes, extensive competition, product liability litigation and increased government regulation. Generally, spending on consumer products is affected by the health of consumers. Companies in the consumer products sectors are subject to government regulation affecting the permissibility of using various food additives and production methods, which regulations could affect company profitability. A weak economy and its effect on consumer spending would adversely affect companies in the consumer products sector. Our investments in the chemicals sector are subject to various risks including risks related to the costs of raw materials and energy. General risks of companies in the chemicals industry include safety or product liability issues, costs of raw materials and energy, including crude oil, and competition in global markets. The chemicals industry is highly competitive, both within the industry and with other industries, which puts pressure on prices. Prices are subject to international supply and demand as well as to the purchase costs of raw materials and energy. Markets for chemical products, as well as prices for raw materials and energy used by the chemicals industry, are cyclical and volatile and the costs of raw materials and energy represent a substantial portion of the industry’s production costs and operating expenses. In addition, manufacturing facilities in the chemicals industry are subject to planned and unplanned production shutdowns, turnarounds and outages, which could have an adverse effect on long-term production. Chemical companies are also subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign regulation, which could inhibit or interrupt operations or require modifications to manufacturing facilities. 41 Table of Contents Cyclicality within the energy sector may adversely affect some of our portfolio companies. Industries within the energy sector are cyclical with fluctuations in commodity prices and demand for, and production of commodities driven by a variety of factors. The highly cyclical nature of the industries within the energy sector may lead to volatile changes in commodity prices, which may adversely affect the earnings of energy companies in which we may invest and the performance and valuation of our portfolio. New market structure requirements applicable to derivatives could significantly increase the costs of utilizing over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives. The Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) enacted, and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) and the Securities and Exchange Commission have issued or proposed rules to implement, both broad new regulatory requirements and broad new structural requirements applicable to OTC derivative markets and, to a lesser extent, listed commodity futures (and futures options) markets. Similar changes are in the process of being adopted in the European Union, Japan, and other major financial markets. These changes include, but are not limited to: requirements that many categories of the most liquid OTC derivatives (currently limited to specified interest rate swaps and index credit default swaps) be executed on qualifying, regulated exchanges and be submitted for clearing; real-time public and regulatory reporting of specified information regarding OTC derivative transactions; and enhanced documentation requirements and recordkeeping requirements. Margin requirements for uncleared OTC derivatives and position limits are also expected to be adopted by the CFTC and other regulators in the future. While these changes are intended to mitigate systemic risk and to enhance transparency and execution quality in the OTC derivative markets, the impact of these changes is not known at this time. For instance, cleared OTC derivatives are subject to margin requirements established by regulated clearinghouses, including daily exchanges of cash variation (or mark-to-market) margin and an upfront posting of cash or securities initial margin to cover the clearinghouse’s potential future exposure to the default of a party to a particular OTC derivative transaction. Furthermore, “financial end users,” such as us, that enter into OTC derivatives that are not cleared will, pending finalization of the applicable regulations, generally be required to provide margin to collateralize their obligations under such derivatives. Under current proposed rules, the level of margin that would be required to be collected in connection with uncleared OTC derivatives is in many cases substantially greater than the level currently required by market participants or clearinghouses. These changes could significantly increase the costs to us of utilizing OTC derivatives, reduce the level of exposure that we are able to obtain (whether for risk management or investment purposes) through OTC derivatives, and reduce the amounts available to us to make non-derivative investments. These changes could also impair liquidity in certain OTC derivatives and adversely affect the quality of execution pricing that we are able to obtain, all of which could adversely impact our investment returns. Furthermore, the margin requirements for cleared and uncleared OTC derivatives may require that the Adviser, in order to maintain its exemption from commodity pool operator (“CPO”) registration under a no-action letter issued by the staff of the CFTC limit our ability to enter into hedging transactions or to obtain synthetic investment exposures, in either case adversely affecting our ability to mitigate risk. Proposed position aggregation requirements may restrict the swap positions that the Adviser may enter into. The Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) significantly expanded the scope of the CFTC’s authority and obligation to require reporting of, and adopt limits on, the size of positions that market participants may own or control in commodity futures and futures options contracts and swaps. The Dodd-Frank Act also narrowed existing exemptions from such position limits for a broad range of risk management transactions. 42 Table of Contents In accordance with the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC is required to establish speculative position limits on additional listed futures and options on physical commodities and economically equivalent over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives; position limits applicable to swaps that are economically equivalent to United States listed futures and futures options contracts, including contracts on non-physical commodities, such as rates, currencies, equities and credit default swaps; and aggregate position limits for a broad range of derivatives contracts based on the same underlying commodity, including swaps and futures and futures options contracts. The CFTC has proposed potentially significant narrowing of existing precedents and guidance that permit market participants to disaggregate for position limit purposes, positions that are independently controlled. While certain persons, contracts or transactions or classes thereof are exempt from the speculative position limit requirements, such broadened position aggregation requirements may further restrict the swap positions that the Adviser may enter into on our behalf. The full impact of these recent changes is not known at this time. Individually and collectively, these changes could increase our costs of maintaining positions in commodity futures and futures option contracts and swaps and reduce the level of exposure we are able to obtain (whether for risk management or investment purposes) through commodity futures and futures option contracts and swaps. These changes could also impair liquidity in certain swaps and adversely affect the quality of execution pricing that we are able to obtain, all of which could adversely impact our investment returns. The effect of global climate change may impact the operations of our portfolio companies. There may be evidence of global climate change. Climate change creates physical and financial risk and some of our portfolio companies may be adversely affected by climate change. For example, the needs of customers of energy companies vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity. To the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change, energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of any changes. Increases in the cost of energy could adversely affect the cost of operations of our portfolio companies if the use of energy products or services is material to their business. A decrease in energy use due to weather changes may affect some of our portfolio companies’ financial condition, through decreased revenues. Extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions. Risks Related to Our Operations as a BDC Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates is restricted. We are prohibited under the 1940 Act from knowingly participating in certain transactions with certain of our affiliates without the prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, of the SEC. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding voting securities will be our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act and we are generally prohibited from buying or selling any security (other than our securities) from or to such affiliate, absent the prior approval of our independent directors. The 1940 Act also prohibits certain “joint” transactions with certain of our affiliates, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times), without prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, of the SEC. We are prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to any person who owns more than 25% of our voting securities or certain of that person’s affiliates, or entering into prohibited joint transactions with such persons, absent the prior approval of the SEC through an exemptive order (other than in certain limited situations pursuant to current regulatory guidance). The analysis of whether a particular transaction constitutes a joint transaction requires a review of the relevant facts and circumstances then existing. Similar restrictions limit our ability to transact business with our officers or directors or their affiliates. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC affect our ability to, and the way in which we, raise additional capital. Our business requires a substantial amount of capital. We may acquire additional capital from the issuance of senior securities or other indebtedness, the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or from securitization transactions. However, we may not be able to raise additional capital in the future on favorable 43 Table of Contents terms or at all. We may issue debt securities or preferred securities, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities,” and we may borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act permits us to issue senior securities or incur indebtedness only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after such issuance or incurrence. Our ability to make distributions or issue additional senior securities would be restricted if our asset coverage ratio were not at least 200%. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we may be required to liquidate a portion of our investments and repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. • Senior Securities. As a result of issuing senior securities, we would also be exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including an increased risk of loss. If we issue preferred securities they would rank “senior” to common stock in our capital structure, preferred stockholders would have separate voting rights and may have rights, preferences or privileges more favorable than those of our common stockholders. Furthermore, the issuance of preferred securities could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stockholders or otherwise be in the best interests of our common stockholders. • Additional Common Stock. Our Board of Directors may decide to issue common stock to finance our operations rather than issuing debt or other senior securities. As a BDC, we are generally not able to issue our common stock at a price below net asset value, or issue securities convertible into common stock, without first obtaining the required approvals from our stockholders and our independent directors. We may also make rights offerings to our stockholders. If we raise additional capital by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our common stockholders at that time would decrease, and our common stockholders may experience dilution. • Securitization. In addition to issuing securities to raise capital as described above, we anticipate that in the future we may securitize our loans to generate cash for funding new investments. To securitize loans, we may create a wholly-owned subsidiary, contribute a pool of loans to the subsidiary and have the subsidiary issue primarily investment grade debt securities to purchasers who we would expect would be willing to accept a substantially lower interest rate than the loans earn. We would retain all or a portion of the equity in the securitized pool of loans. Our retained equity would be exposed to any losses on the portfolio of loans before any of the debt securities would be exposed to such losses. An inability to successfully securitize our loan portfolio could limit our ability to grow our business and fully execute our business strategy and adversely affect our earnings, if any. Moreover, the successful securitization of our loan portfolio might expose us to losses as the residual loans in which we do not sell interests will tend to be those that are riskier and more apt to generate losses. Stockholders will likely incur dilution if we sell or otherwise issue shares of our common stock or securities to subscribe for or convertible into shares of our common stock at prices below the then current net asset value per share of our common stock. We obtained approval at our 2015 Special Meeting of Stockholders to allow us the flexibility, with the approval of our Board of Directors, to sell or otherwise issue shares of our common stock at a price below its then current net asset value per share during the twelve month period following stockholders approval at the 2015 Special Meeting, subject to the policy of our Board of Directors that the Company shall not sell or otherwise issue more than 25% of the Company’s then outstanding shares of common stock (immediately prior to such sale or issuance) at a price below its then current net asset value per share. Since we obtained this approval from stockholders, we may issue shares of our common stock at a price below its then current net asset value per share, subject to the foregoing conditions and the determination by our Board of Directors that such issuance and sale is in our and our stockholders’ best interests. In addition, we may also issue shares of common stock in certain limited circumstances under our dividend reinvestment plan and under interpretive advice issued by the Internal Revenue Service. Any sale or other 44 Table of Contents issuance of shares of our common stock at a price below net asset value per share would result in an immediate dilution to the net asset value per share. This dilution would occur as a result of a proportionately greater decrease in a stockholder’s interest in our earnings and assets and voting interest in us than the increase in our assets resulting from such issuance. Because the number of shares of common stock that could be so issued and the timing of any issuance is not currently known, the actual dilutive effect cannot be predicted. Such effects may be material, and we undertake to describe material risks and dilutive effects of any offering that we make at a price below our then current net asset value in the future in a prospectus supplement issued in connection with any such offering. We cannot predict whether shares of our common stock will trade above, at or below our net asset value. Changes in the laws or regulations governing our business or the businesses of our portfolio companies and any failure by us or our portfolio companies to comply with these laws or regulations could negatively affect the profitability of our operations or of our portfolio companies. We are subject to changing rules and regulations of federal and state governments, as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and The NASDAQ Global Select Market, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations. In particular, changes in the laws or regulations or the interpretations of the laws and regulations that govern BDCs, RICs or non-depository commercial lenders could significantly affect our operations and our cost of doing business. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations and are subject to judicial and administrative decisions that affect our operations, including our loan originations, maximum interest rates, fees and other charges, disclosures to portfolio companies, the terms of secured transactions, collection and foreclosure procedures and other trade practices. If these laws, regulations or decisions change, or if we expand our business into jurisdictions that have adopted more stringent requirements than those in which we currently conduct business, we may have to incur significant expenses in order to comply, or we might have to restrict our operations. In addition, if we do not comply with applicable laws, regulations and decisions, we may lose licenses needed for the conduct of our business and be subject to civil fines and criminal penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any failure on our part to maintain our status as a BDC would reduce our operating flexibility. The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of BDCs. Any failure to comply with the requirements imposed on BDCs by the 1940 Act could cause the SEC to bring an enforcement action against us and/or expose us to claims of private litigants. In addition, upon approval of a majority of our stockholders, we may elect to withdraw our status as a BDC. If we decide to withdraw our election, or if we otherwise fail to qualify, or maintain our qualification, as a BDC, we may be subject to the substantially greater regulation under the 1940 Act as a closed-end investment company. Compliance with such regulations would significantly decrease our operating flexibility, and could significantly increase our costs of doing business. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could fail to qualify as a BDC or be precluded from investing according to our current business strategy. As a BDC, we may not acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. We believe that most of the investments that we may acquire in the future will constitute qualifying assets. However, we may be precluded from investing in what we believe are attractive investments if such investments are not qualifying assets for purposes of the 1940 Act. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could be found to be in violation of the 1940 Act provisions applicable to BDCs, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, these rules could prevent us from making follow-on investments in existing portfolio companies (which could result in the dilution of our position) 45 Table of Contents or could require us to dispose of investments at inappropriate times in order to come into compliance with the 1940 Act. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, and therefore will be relatively illiquid, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and could result in substantial losses. Loss of status as a RIC would reduce our net asset value and distributable income. We currently qualify as a RIC under the Code and intend to continue to qualify each year as a RIC. As a RIC we do not have to pay federal income taxes on our income (including realized gains) that is distributed to our stockholders, provided that we satisfy certain distribution requirements. Accordingly, we are not permitted under accounting rules to establish reserves for taxes on our unrealized capital gains. If we fail to qualify for RIC status in any year, to the extent that we had unrealized gains, we would have to establish reserves for taxes, which would reduce our net asset value. In addition, if we, as a RIC, were to decide to make a deemed distribution of net realized capital gains and retain the net realized capital gains, we would have to establish appropriate reserves for taxes that we would have to pay on behalf of stockholders. It is possible that establishing reserves for taxes could have a material adverse effect on the value of our common stock. See “Material U.S. Federal Tax Matters.” We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to maintain our qualification as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code or do not satisfy the annual distribution requirement. To maintain RIC status and be relieved of federal taxes on income and gains distributed to our stockholders, we must meet the following annual distribution, income source and asset diversification requirements. • The annual distribution requirement for a RIC will be satisfied if we distribute to our stockholders on an annual basis at least 90% of our net ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any. Because we may use debt financing, we are subject to an asset coverage ratio requirement under the 1940 Act and we may be subject to certain financial covenants under our debt arrangements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to satisfy the distribution requirement. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we could fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. • The income source requirement will be satisfied if we obtain at least 90% of our income for each year from dividends, interest, gains from the sale of stock or securities or similar sources. • The asset diversification requirement will be satisfied if we meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of our taxable year. To satisfy this requirement, at least 50% of the value of our assets must consist of cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities, securities of other RICs, and other acceptable securities; and no more than 25% of the value of our assets can be invested in the securities, other than U.S. government securities or securities of other RICs, of one issuer, of two or more issuers that are controlled, as determined under applicable Code rules, by us and that are engaged in the same or similar or related trades or businesses or of certain “qualified publicly traded partnerships.” Failure to meet these requirements may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, and therefore will be relatively illiquid, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and could result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify for or maintain RIC status for any reason and are subject to corporate-level income tax, the resulting corporate-level taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us and our stockholders. The recently enacted “Regulated Investment Company Modernization Act of 2010,” which is effective for 2011 and later tax years, provides some relief from RIC disqualification due to failures of the income source and asset diversification requirements, although there may be additional taxes due in such cases. We cannot assure you that we would qualify for any such relief should we fail the income source or asset diversification requirements. 46 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our shares of common stock have traded at a discount from net asset value and may do so again in the future, which could limit our ability to raise additional equity capital. Shares of closed-end investment companies, including business development companies, may trade at a market discount from net asset value. This characteristic of closed-end investment companies and business development companies is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share may decline. In the past, the stocks of BDCs as an industry, including shares of our common stock, have traded below net asset value and at historic lows as a result of concerns over liquidity, leverage restrictions and distribution requirements. When our common stock is trading below its net asset value per share, we will generally not be able to issue additional shares of our common stock at its market price without first obtaining approval for such issuance from our stockholders and our independent directors. At our 2015 Special Meeting of Stockholders, subject to certain conditions and Board of Directors determinations, our stockholders approved our ability to sell or otherwise issue shares of our common stock at a price below its then current net asset value per share for a twelve month period expiring on the anniversary of the date of stockholder approval. Investing in our common stock may involve an above average degree of risk. The investments we make in accordance with our investment objective may result in a higher amount of risk than alternative investment options and a higher risk of volatility or loss of principal. Our investments in portfolio companies involve higher levels of risk, and therefore, an investment in our shares may not be suitable for someone with lower risk tolerance. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. As with any company, the price of our common stock will fluctuate with market conditions and other factors. The market price and liquidity of the market for our common stock may from time to time be affected by a number of factors, which include, but are not limited to, the following: • volatility in the market price and trading volume of common stocks of BDCs or other financial services companies, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; • investors’ general perception of our company, the economy and general market conditions; • our quarterly results of operations; • our origination activity, including the pace of, and competition for, new investment opportunities; • the financial performance of the specific industries in which we invest on a recurring basis, including without limitation, our investments in the business services and healthcare industries; • announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; • changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs or BDCs; • loss of RIC status; • changes in earnings or variations in operating results; • changes in the value of our portfolio investments; • any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; • departure of key personnel from the Advisor; • operating performance of companies comparable to us; • short-selling pressure with respect to shares of our common stock or BDCs generally; • general economic trends and other external factors, including price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market; and • loss of a major funding source. 47 Table of Contents Our shares may trade at discounts from net asset value or at premiums that are unsustainable over the long term. Shares of BDCs may trade at a market price that is less than the net asset value that is attributable to those shares. Our shares have traded above and below our net asset value. The possibility that our shares of common stock will trade at a discount from net asset value or at a premium that is unsustainable over the long term is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value will decrease. It is not possible to predict whether our shares will trade at, above or below net asset value in the future. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The shares of our common stock beneficially owned by our principal stockholders are generally available for resale, subject to the provisions of Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the availability of such common stock for sale, could adversely affect the prevailing market prices for our common stock. If this occurs and continues, it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of securities should we desire to do so. Our capital-raising activities may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. When we issue securities or incur debt, we generally obtain cash or cash equivalents. Any increase in our holdings of cash or cash equivalents could adversely affect the prevailing market prices for our common stock, especially if we are unable to timely deploy the capital in suitable investments. The adverse impact on the prevailing market prices for our common stock could be greater if we issue debt securities or other securities requiring the payment of interest and are unable to timely deploy the capital in suitable investments. There is a risk that investors in our equity securities may not receive distributions or that our distributions may not grow over time. We intend to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. There can be no assurance that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. If we declare a distribution and if more stockholders opt to receive cash distributions rather than participate in our dividend reinvestment plan, we may be forced to sell some of our investments in order to make cash distributions. In addition, due to the asset coverage test applicable to us as a BDC, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. Further, if we invest a greater amount of assets in equity securities that do not pay current dividends, it could reduce the amount available for distribution. If we issue preferred stock, the net asset value and market value of our common stock may become more volatile. We cannot assure you that the issuance of preferred stock would result in a higher yield or return to the holders of our common stock. The issuance of preferred stock would likely cause the net asset value and market value of our common stock to become more volatile. If the dividend rate on the preferred stock were to approach the net rate of return on our investment portfolio, the benefit of leverage to the holders of our common stock would be reduced. If the dividend rate on the preferred stock were to exceed the net rate of return on our portfolio, the leverage would result in a lower rate of return to the holders of our common stock than if we had not issued preferred stock. Any decline in the net asset value of our investment would be borne entirely by the holders of our common stock. Therefore, if the market value of our portfolio were to decline, the leverage would result in a greater decrease in net asset value to the holders of our common stock than if we were not leveraged through the issuance of preferred stock. This greater net asset value decrease would also tend to cause a greater decline in the market price of our common stock. We might be in danger of failing to maintain the required asset coverage of the preferred stock or of losing our ratings on the preferred stock or, in an extreme case, our current investment income might not be sufficient to meet the dividend requirements on the preferred stock. In order to 48 Table of Contents counteract such an event, we might need to liquidate investments in order to fund a redemption of some or all of the preferred stock. In addition, we would pay (and the holders of our common stock would bear) all costs and expenses relating to the issuance and ongoing maintenance of the preferred stock, including higher Incentive Fees if our total return exceeds the dividend rate on the preferred stock. Holders of preferred stock may have different interests than holders of common stock and may at times have disproportionate influence over our affairs. We may in the future determine to issue preferred stock, which could adversely affect the market value of our common stock. The issuance of shares of preferred stock with dividend or conversion rights, liquidation preferences or other economic terms favorable to the holders of preferred stock could adversely affect the market price for our common stock by making an investment in the common stock less attractive. In addition, the dividends on any preferred stock we issue must be cumulative. Payment of dividends and repayment of the liquidation preference of preferred stock must take preference over any dividends or other payments to our common stockholders, and holders of preferred stock are not subject to any of our expenses or losses and are not entitled to participate in any income or appreciation in excess of their stated preference (other than convertible preferred stock that converts into common stock). In addition, under the 1940 Act, preferred stock constitutes a “senior security” for purposes of the 200% asset coverage test. Holders of any preferred stock we might issue would have the right to elect members of our Board of Directors and class voting rights on certain matters. Holders of any preferred stock we might issue, voting separately as a single class, would have the right to elect two members of our Board of Directors at all times and in the event dividends become two full years in arrears would have the right to elect a majority of the directors until such arrearage is completely eliminated. In addition, preferred stockholders have class voting rights on certain matters, including changes in fundamental investment restrictions and conversion to open-end status, and accordingly can veto any changes. Restrictions imposed on the declarations and payment of dividends or other distributions to the holders of our common stock and preferred stock, both by the 1940 Act and by requirements imposed by rating agencies, might impair our ability to maintain our qualification as a RIC for federal income tax purposes. While we would intend to redeem our preferred stock to the extent necessary to enable us to distribute our income as required to maintain our qualification as a RIC, there can be no assurance that such actions could be effected in time to meet the tax requirements. Certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. The Delaware General Corporation Law, our amended certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us. These anti-takeover provisions may inhibit a change in control in circumstances that could give the holders of our common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price of our common stock. We have also adopted measures that may make it difficult for a third party to obtain control of us, including provisions of our amended certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws dividing our Board of Directors in three classes serving staggered three-year terms, requiring the affirmative vote of the holders of 75% of the then outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote to remove a director for cause, and, subject to the rights of any holders of preferred stock, filling any vacancy on our Board of Directors only by a vote of a majority of the directors then in office. The classification of our Board of Directors and the limitations on removal of directors and filling of vacancies could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws also provide that special meetings of the stockholders may only be called by our Board of Directors, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Secretary. These provisions, as well as other provisions of our amended certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws, may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. 49 Table of Contents Your interest in us may be diluted if you do not fully exercise your subscription rights in any rights offering we may conduct. In addition, if the subscription price is less than our net asset value per share, then you will experience an immediate dilution of the aggregate net asset value of your shares. In the event we issue subscription rights, stockholders who do not fully exercise their subscription rights should expect that they will, at the completion of a rights offering pursuant to this prospectus, own a smaller proportional interest in us than would otherwise be the case if they fully exercised their rights. We cannot state precisely the amount of any such dilution in share ownership because we do not know at this time what proportion of the shares will be purchased as a result of such rights offering. In addition, if the subscription price is less than the net asset value per share of our common stock, then our stockholders would experience an immediate dilution of the aggregate net asset value of their shares as a result of the offering. The amount of any decrease in net asset value is not predictable because it is not known at this time what the subscription price and net asset value per share will be on the expiration date of a rights offering or what proportion of the shares will be purchased as a result of such rights offering. Such dilution could be substantial. A trading market or market value of our debt securities may fluctuate. In the event we issue debt securities, they may or may not have an established trading market. We cannot assure you that a trading market for debt securities will ever develop or be maintained if developed. In addition to our creditworthiness, many factors may materially adversely affect the trading market for, and market value of, debt securities we may issue. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • the time remaining to the maturity of these debt securities; • the outstanding principal amount of debt securities with terms identical to these debt securities; • the ratings assigned by national statistical ratings agencies; • the general economic environment; • the supply of debt securities trading in the secondary market, if any; • the redemption or repayment features, if any, of these debt securities; • the level, direction and volatility of market interest rates generally; and • market rates of interest higher or lower than rates borne by the debt securities. • You should also be aware that there may be a limited number of buyers if and when you decide to sell your debt securities. This too may materially adversely affect the market value of the debt securities or the trading market for the debt securities. Terms relating to redemption may materially adversely affect your return on any debt securities that we may issue. If your debt securities are redeemable at our option, we may choose to redeem your debt securities at times when prevailing interest rates are lower than the interest rate paid on your debt securities. In addition, if your debt securities are subject to mandatory redemption, we may be required to redeem your debt securities also at times when prevailing interest rates are lower than the interest rate paid on your debt securities. In this circumstance, you may not be able to reinvest the redemption proceeds in a comparable security at an effective interest rate as high as your debt securities being redeemed. Our credit ratings may not reflect all risks of an investment in our debt securities. Our credit ratings are an assessment by third parties of our ability to pay our obligations. Consequently, real or anticipated changes in our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of our debt securities. Our credit ratings, however, may not reflect the potential impact of risks related to market conditions generally or other factors discussed above on the market value of or trading market for the publicly issued debt securities. 50 Table of Contents We may initially invest a portion of the net proceeds of offerings pursuant to this prospectus primarily in high-quality short-term investments, which will generate lower rates of return than those expected from the interest generated on first and second lien senior secured loans and mezzanine debt. We may initially invest a portion of the net proceeds of offerings pursuant to this prospectus primarily in cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high-quality short-term investments. These securities generally earn yields substantially lower than the income that we anticipate receiving once we are fully invested in accordance with our investment objective. As a result, we may not, for a time, be able to achieve our investment objective and/or we may need to, for a time, decrease the amount of any dividend that we may pay to our stockholders to a level that is substantially lower than the level that we expect to pay when the net proceeds of offerings are fully invested in accordance with our investment objective. If we do not realize yields in excess of our expenses, we may incur operating losses and the market price of our shares may decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 