Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business has many risks. Factors that could materially adversely affect our business, financial position, operating results or liquidity and the trading price of our units are described below. This information should be considered carefully, together with other information in this report and other reports and materials we file with the SEC. We may not have sufficient cash flow from operations to pay the quarterly distribution at the current distribution level and future distributions to our unitholders may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. We may not have sufficient cash flow from operations each quarter to pay the quarterly distribution at the current distribution level. Under the terms of our limited liability company agreement, the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution will be reduced by our operating expenses and any cash reserve amounts that our Board of Directors establishes to provide for future operations, future capital expenditures, future debt service requirements and future cash distributions to our unitholders. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: · produced volumes of oil, gas and NGL; · prices at which oil, gas and NGL production is sold; · level of our operating costs; · payment of interest, which depends on the amount of our indebtedness and the interest payable thereon; and · level of our capital expenditures. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: · availability of borrowings under our credit facility to pay distributions; · the costs of acquisitions, if any; · fluctuations in our working capital needs; · timing and collectibility of receivables; · restrictions on distributions contained in our credit facility; · prevailing economic conditions; and · the amount of cash reserves established by our Board of Directors for the proper conduct of our business. As a result of these factors, the amount of cash we distribute to our unitholders in any quarter may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and may be significantly less than the current distribution level. We actively seek to acquire oil and gas properties. Acquisitions involve potential risks that could adversely impact our future growth and our ability to increase or pay distributions. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: · the risk that reserves expected to support the acquired assets may not be of the anticipated magnitude or may not be developed as anticipated; · the risk of title defects discovered after closing; · inaccurate assumptions about revenues and costs, including synergies; · significant increases in our indebtedness and working capital requirements; · an inability to transition and integrate successfully or timely the businesses we acquire; · the cost of transition and integration of data systems and processes; · the potential environmental problems and costs; · the assumption of unknown liabilities; · limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; · the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; · increased demands on existing personnel and on our corporate structure; 16 Table of Contents · customer or key employee losses of the acquired businesses; and · the failure to realize expected growth or profitability. The scope and cost of these risks may ultimately be materially greater than estimated at the time of the acquisition. Further, our future acquisition costs may be higher than those we have achieved historically. Any of these factors could adversely impact our future growth and our ability to increase or pay distributions. If we do not make future acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, then our growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited. Our ability to grow and to increase distributions to our unitholders is partially dependent on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in available cash flow per unit. We may be unable to make such acquisitions because we are: · unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them; · unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms; or · outbid by competitors. In any such case, our future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited. Furthermore, even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will increase available cash flow per unit, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in available cash flow per unit. We have significant indebtedness under our credit facility and senior notes. Our credit facility has substantial restrictions and financial covenants and we may have difficulty obtaining additional credit, which could adversely affect our operations and our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. We have significant indebtedness under our credit facility and senior notes. As of January 30, 2009, we had an aggregate of approximately $1.43 billion outstanding under our credit facility and senior notes (with additional borrowing capacity of approximately $415.4 million). As a result of our indebtedness, we will use a portion of our cash flow to pay interest and principal when due, which will reduce the cash available to finance our operations and other business activities and could limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. The credit facility restricts our ability to obtain additional financing, make investments, lease equipment, sell assets and engage in business combinations. We also are required to comply with certain financial covenants and ratios. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants in the future is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and events or circumstances beyond our control. Our failure to comply with any of the restrictions and covenants could result in an event of default, which, if it continues beyond any applicable cure periods, could cause all of our existing indebtedness to be immediately due and payable. We depend on our credit facility for future capital needs. We have drawn on our credit facility to fund or partially fund quarterly cash distribution payments, since we use operating cash flows for drilling and development of oil and gas properties and acquisitions and borrow as cash is needed. Absent such borrowing, we would have at times experienced a shortfall in cash available to pay our declared quarterly cash distribution amount. If there is an event of default by us under our credit facility that continues beyond any applicable cure period, we would be unable to make borrowings to fund distributions. Availability under our credit facility is determined semi-annually at the discretion of the lenders and is based in part on oil, gas and NGL prices. Significant declines in oil, gas or NGL prices may result in a decrease in our borrowing base. The lenders can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under the credit facility. Any increase in the borrowing base requires the consent of all the lenders. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base must be repaid immediately, or we must pledge other properties as additional collateral. We do not currently have any substantial unpledged properties, and we may not have the financial resources in the future to make any mandatory principal prepayments required under the credit facility. Significant declines in our production or significant declines in realized oil, gas or NGL prices for prolonged periods and resulting decreases in our borrowing base may force us to reduce or suspend distributions to our unitholders. 17 Table of Contents Our ability to access the capital and credit markets to raise capital on favorable terms will be affected by our debt level and by disruptions in the capital and credit markets, which could adversely affect our operations and our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. The cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished significantly. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as some major financial institutions have consolidated and others may consolidate in the future, some lenders may increase interest rates, enact tighter lending standards, refuse to refinance existing debt at maturity on favorable terms or at all and may reduce or cease to provide funding to borrowers. If we are unable to refinance our credit facility on terms that are as favorable as those in our existing credit facility, or at all, our ability to fund our operations and our ability to pay distributions could be affected. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Borrowings under our credit facility bear interest at variable rates and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash available for servicing our indebtedness would decrease. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect the demand for our units. An increase in interest rates may cause a corresponding decline in demand for equity investments, in particular for yield-based equity investments such as our units. Any such reduction in demand for our units resulting from other more attractive investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our units to decline. Our commodity derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our income, which may adversely affect our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. To achieve more predictable cash flow and to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil, gas and NGL, we enter into commodity derivative contracts for a significant portion of our production. If we experience a sustained material interruption in our production or if we are unable to perform our drilling activity as planned, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative obligations without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a substantial reduction of our liquidity. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of the global financial crisis may adversely affect our derivative positions. We cannot be assured that our counterparties will be able to perform under our derivative contracts. If a counterparty fails to perform and the derivative arrangement is terminated, our cash flow, and ability to pay distributions could be impacted. Commodity prices are volatile, and a significant decline in commodity prices for a prolonged period would reduce our revenues, cash flow from operations and profitability, and we may have to lower our distribution or may not be able to pay distributions at all. Our revenue, profitability and cash flow depend upon the prices of and demand for oil, gas and NGL. The oil, gas and NGL market is very volatile and a drop in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Changes in oil, gas and NGL prices have a significant impact on the value of our reserves and on our cash flow. Prices for these commodities may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for them, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: · the domestic and foreign supply of and demand for oil, gas and NGL; · the price and level of foreign imports; · the level of consumer product demand; · weather conditions; 18 Table of Contents · overall domestic and global economic conditions; · political and economic conditions in oil and gas producing countries, including those in the Middle East and South America; · the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain price and production controls; · the impact of the U.S. dollar exchange rates on oil, gas and NGL prices; · technological advances affecting energy consumption; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; · the impact of energy conservation efforts; · the proximity and capacity of pipelines and other transportation facilities; and · the price and availability of alternative fuels. In the past, the prices of oil, gas and NGL have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. If commodity prices decline significantly for a prolonged period, our cash flow from operations will decline, and we may have to lower our distribution or may not be able to pay distributions at all. Future price declines or downward reserve revisions may result in a write-down of our asset carrying values. Declines in oil, gas and NGL prices may result in our having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. If this occurs, or if our estimates of development costs increase, production data factors change or drilling results deteriorate, accounting rules may require us to write-down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our properties for impairments. We are required to perform impairment tests on our assets periodically and whenever events or changes in circumstances warrant a review of our assets. To the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of our assets, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore would require a write-down. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period incurred and on our ability to borrow funds under our credit facility, which in turn may adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Unless we replace our reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash flow from operations and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Producing oil, gas and NGL reservoirs are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. The overall rate of decline for our production will change if production from our existing wells declines in a different manner than we have estimated and can change when we drill additional wells, make acquisitions and under other circumstances. Thus, our future oil, gas and NGL reserves and production and, therefore, our cash flow and income, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs, which would adversely affect our cash flow from operations and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. No one can measure underground accumulations of oil, gas and NGL in an exact way. Reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil, gas and NGL and assumptions concerning future oil, gas and NGL prices, production levels, and operating and development costs. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may prove to be inaccurate. Independent petroleum engineering firms prepare estimates of our proved reserves. Some of our reserve estimates are made without the benefit of a lengthy production history, which are less reliable than estimates based on a lengthy production history. Also, we make certain assumptions regarding future oil, gas and NGL prices, production levels, and operating and development costs that may prove incorrect. Any significant variance from these assumptions by actual figures could greatly affect our estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of oil, gas and NGL attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based 19 Table of Contents on risk of recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows. Numerous changes over time to the assumptions on which our reserve estimates are based, as described above, often result in the actual quantities of oil, gas and NGL we ultimately recover being different from our reserve estimates. The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated oil, gas and NGL reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices and costs in effect on the day of estimate. However, actual future net cash flows from our oil and gas properties also will be affected by factors such as: · actual prices we receive for oil, gas and NGL; · the amount and timing of actual production; · the timing and success of development activities; · supply of and demand for oil, gas and NGL; and · changes in governmental regulations or taxation. In addition, the 10% discount factor, required to be used pursuant to SFAS 69 when calculating discounted future net cash flows, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and gas industry in general. Our development operations require substantial capital expenditures, which will reduce our cash available for distribution. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our reserves. The oil and gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business for the development, production and acquisition of oil, gas and NGL reserves. These expenditures will reduce our cash available for distribution. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures with cash flow from operations and our financing arrangements. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: · our proved reserves; · the level of oil, gas and NGL we are able to produce from existing wells; · the prices at which we are able to sell our oil, gas and NGL; and · our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. If our revenues or the borrowing base under our credit facility decrease as a result of lower oil, gas and NGL prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. Our credit facility restricts our ability to obtain new financing. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If cash generated by operations or available under our credit facility is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our development operations, which in turn could lead to a possible decline in our reserves. We may decide not to drill some of the prospects we have identified, and locations that we decide to drill may not yield oil, gas and NGL in commercially viable quantities. Our prospective drilling locations are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a prospect that is ready to drill to a prospect that will require additional geological and engineering analysis. Based on a variety of factors, including future oil, gas and NGL prices, the generation of additional seismic or geological information, the availability of drilling rigs and other factors, we may decide not to drill one or more of these prospects. As a result, we may not be able to increase or maintain our reserves or production, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a well. Our efforts will be uneconomic if we drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough oil, gas and NGL to be commercially viable after drilling, operating and other costs. If we drill 20 Table of Contents future wells that we identify as dry holes, our drilling success rate would decline, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. Our business depends on gathering and transportation facilities. Any limitation in the availability of those facilities would interfere with our ability to market the oil, gas and NGL we produce, and could reduce our cash available for distribution and adversely impact expected increases in oil, gas and NGL production from our drilling program. The marketability of our oil, gas and NGL production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of gathering and pipeline systems. The amount of oil, gas and NGL that can be produced and sold is subject to limitation in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering or transportation system, or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months. In many cases, we are provided only with limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. In addition, some of our wells are drilled in locations that are not serviced by gathering and transportation pipelines, or the gathering and transportation pipelines in the area may not have sufficient capacity to transport additional production. As a result, we may not be able to sell the oil, gas and NGL production from these wells until the necessary gathering and transportation systems are constructed. Any significant curtailment in gathering system or pipeline capacity, or significant delay in the construction of necessary gathering and transportation facilities, would interfere with our ability to market the oil, gas and NGL we produce, and could reduce our cash available for distribution and adversely impact expected increases in oil and gas production from our drilling program. We depend on certain key customers for sales of our oil, gas and NGL. To the extent these and other customers reduce the volumes they purchase from us or delay payment, our revenues and cash available for distribution could decline. Further, a general increase in non-payment could have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2008, DCP Midstream Partners, LP, ConocoPhillips and Enbridge Energy accounted for approximately 23%, 12% and 11%, respectively, of our total volumes from continuing operations, or 46% in the aggregate. For the year ended December 31, 2007, DCP Midstream Partners, LP and ConocoPhillips accounted for approximately 28% and 17%, respectively, of our total volumes from continuing operations, or 45% in the aggregate. To the extent these and other customers reduce the volumes of oil, gas or NGL that they purchase from us, our revenues and cash available for distribution could decline. Many of our leases are in areas that have been partially depleted or drained by offset wells. Our key project areas are located in some of the most active drilling areas of the producing basins in the United States. As a result, many of our leases are in areas that have already been partially depleted or drained by earlier offset drilling. This may inhibit our ability to find economically recoverable quantities of reserves in these areas. Our identified drilling location inventories are scheduled out over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling, resulting in temporarily lower cash from operations, which may impact our ability to pay distributions. Our management has specifically identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. As of December 31, 2008, we had identified 4,069 drilling locations, of which 1,259 were proved undeveloped locations and 2,810 were other locations. These identified drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, oil, gas and NGL prices, costs and drilling results. In addition, DeGolyer and MacNaughton has not estimated proved reserves for the 2,810 other drilling locations we have identified and scheduled for drilling, and therefore there may be greater uncertainty with respect to the success of drilling wells at these drilling locations. Our final determination on whether to drill any of these drilling locations will be dependent upon the factors described above as well as, to some degree, the results of our drilling activities with respect to our proved drilling locations. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous drilling locations we have identified will be drilled within our expected timeframe or will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil, gas and NGL from these or any other 21 Table of Contents potential drilling locations. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could adversely affect our business. Drilling for and producing oil, gas and NGL are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations and, as a result, our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Our drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. Drilling for oil, gas and NGL can be uneconomic, not only from dry holes, but also from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to be commercially viable. In addition, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: · the high cost, shortages or delivery delays of equipment and services; · unexpected operational events; · adverse weather conditions; · facility or equipment malfunctions; · title problems; · pipeline ruptures or spills; · compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; · unusual or unexpected geological formations; · loss of drilling fluid circulation; · formations with abnormal pressures; · fires; · blowouts, craterings and explosions; and · uncontrollable flows of oil, gas and NGL or well fluids. Any of these events can cause increased costs or restrict our ability to drill the wells and conduct the operations which we currently have planned. Any delay in the drilling program or significant increase in costs could impact our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to pay quarterly distributions to our unitholders at the current distribution level. Increased costs could include losses from personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution, environmental contamination, loss of wells and regulatory penalties. We ordinarily maintain insurance against certain losses and liabilities arising from our operations. However, it is impossible to insure against all operational risks in the course of our business. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could therefore occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial position and results of operations. Because we handle oil, gas and NGL and other hydrocarbons, we may incur significant costs and liabilities in the future resulting from a failure to comply with new or existing environmental regulations or an accidental release of hazardous substances into the environment. The operations of our wells, gathering systems, turbines, pipelines and other facilities are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These include, for example: · the federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to air emissions; · the federal Clean Water Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to discharges of pollutants into regulated bodies of water; · the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”), and comparable state laws that impose requirements for the handling and disposal of waste from our facilities; and · the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (“CERCLA”), also known as “Superfund,” and comparable state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or at locations to which we have sent waste for disposal. 22 Table of Contents Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes, including the RCRA, CERCLA and analogous state laws and regulations, impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances have been disposed of or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other waste products into the environment. There is an inherent risk that we may incur environmental costs and liabilities due to the nature of our business and the substances we handle. For example, an accidental release from one of our wells or gathering pipelines could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage, and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We may not be able to recover these costs from insurance. For a more detailed discussion of environmental and regulatory matters impacting our business, see Part I. Item 1. “Business - Environmental Matters and Regulation.” We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels. Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations have increased the costs to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon oil and gas wells. Under these laws and regulations, we could also be liable for personal injuries, property damage and other damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, public interest in environmental protection has increased in recent years, and environmental organizations have opposed, with some success, certain drilling projects. Part of the regulatory environment in which we operate includes, in some cases, legal requirements for obtaining environmental assessments, environmental impact studies and/or plans of development before commencing drilling and production activities. In addition, our activities are subject to the regulations regarding conservation practices and protection of correlative rights. These regulations affect our operations and limit the quantity of oil, gas and NGL we may produce and sell. A major risk inherent in our drilling plans is the need to obtain drilling permits from state and local authorities. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or drilling permits, the failure to obtain a drilling permit for a well or the receipt of a permit with unreasonable conditions or costs could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop our properties. Additionally, the regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase the financial and managerial costs of compliance with these laws and regulations and, consequently, adversely affect our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. For a description of the laws and regulations that affect us, see Part I. Item 1. “Business - Environmental Matters and Regulation.” Our management may have conflicts of interest with the unitholders. Our limited liability company agreement limits the remedies available to our unitholders in the event unitholders have a claim relating to conflicts of interest. Conflicts of interest may arise between our management on one hand, and the Company and our unitholders on the other hand, related to the divergent interests of our management. Situations in which the interests of our management may differ from interests of our non-affiliated unitholders include, among others, the following situations: · our limited liability company agreement gives our Board of Directors broad discretion in establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, which will affect the amount of cash available for distribution. For example, our management will use its reasonable discretion to establish and maintain cash reserves sufficient to fund our drilling program; · our management team, subject to oversight from our Board of Directors, determines the timing and extent of our drilling program and related capital expenditures, asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuances of 23 Table of Contents additional membership interests and reserve adjustments, all of which will affect the amount of cash that we distribute to our unitholders; and · affiliates of our directors are not prohibited from investing or engaging in other businesses or activities that compete with the Company. We do not have the same flexibility as other types of organizations to accumulate cash and equity to protect against illiquidity in the future. Unlike a corporation, our limited liability company agreement requires us to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders of all available cash reduced by any amounts of reserves for commitments and contingencies, including capital and operating costs and debt service requirements. The value of our units may decrease in direct correlation with decreases in the amount we distribute per unit. Accordingly, if we experience a liquidity problem in the future, we may have difficulty issuing more equity to recapitalize. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or we were to become subject to entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, taxes paid, if any, would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter that affects us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rates, currently at a maximum rate of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gain, loss, deduction or credit would flow through to unitholders. Because a tax may be imposed on us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our units. Current law or our business may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships and limited liability companies to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. For example, we are required to pay Texas franchise tax at a maximum effective rate of 0.7% of our total revenue apportioned to Texas in the prior year. Imposition of a tax on us by any other state would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Unitholders may be subject to taxable gains upon dispositions of properties. We may dispose of properties in transactions that result in gains that will be allocated to you, and such gains may be either ordinary gains or capital gains to you. Even where we dispose of properties that are capital assets, what otherwise would be capital gains to you may be recharacterized as ordinary gains in order to “recapture” ordinary deductions that were previously allocated to you related to the same properties. In addition, such an allocation of ordinary or capital gains may increase your taxable income, and you may be required to pay federal income taxes and state and local income taxes, even if we have not made a cash distribution to you subsequent to our disposal of the properties. Your allocable share of the taxable gains also may be greater than your interest in our profits. If you contributed property in exchange for our units, your capital account would have been credited with the fair market value of the property at the time (your “book” basis), which may have exceeded your “tax” basis of property. This could also be the case if you held our units at a time when we issued additional units to other unitholders (resulting in a revaluation of our assets). Gains are required to be allocated to you in order to eliminate this “book-tax disparity.” 24 Table of Contents Our unitholders may have more complex tax reporting and may be required to pay taxes on income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Our unitholders are required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from their share of our taxable income. Furthermore, distributions to unitholders in excess of the total net taxable income they were allocated, decreases their tax basis, which will become ordinary taxable income to them if the unit is later sold at a price greater than their tax basis, even if the price received is less than their original cost. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property now or in the future, even if they do not reside in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. In 2008, we have done business and owned assets in West Virginia, Virginia, Pennsylvania, New York, Virginia, California, Oklahoma, Kansas, New Mexico, Illinois, Indiana, Arkansas, Colorado, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota and Texas. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may do business or own assets in other states in the future. It is the responsibility of each unitholder to file all United States federal, state and local tax returns that may be required of such unitholder. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state or local tax consequences of an investment in our units. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 