Risk Factors An investment in our Company involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks below, together with the other information contained in this report, before you make an investment decision with respect to our Company. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our Company. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we consider immaterial, may also impair our business operations. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition, and could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock and the value of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business The failure to successfully integrate Historical GameStop’s and EB’s businesses and operations in the expected timeframe may adversely affect our future results. Prior to the mergers, Historical GameStop and EB operated independently. We will face significant challenges in continuing to consolidate Historical GameStop and EB functions, integrating their organizations, procedures and operations in a timely and efficient manner. The integration of Historical GameStop and EB has been and will be costly, complex and time consuming, and our management will have to devote substantial resources and efforts to it. The integration process and other disruptions resulting from the mergers could prevent us from achieving the anticipated benefits of the mergers and result in the disruption of our ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and others with whom we have business dealings. 14 Table of Contents We may fail to realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and other benefits expected from the mergers. The future success of GameStop will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and cost savings from combining the businesses of Historical GameStop and EB. We estimate that cost savings and operating synergies resulting from the mergers will be approximately $70 to $80 million annually beginning in fiscal 2006. Such cost savings and operating synergies are expected to be realized by capitalizing on consolidation and integration of certain functions as well as through the adoption of best practices from both Historical GameStop and EB. However, to realize the anticipated benefits from the mergers, we must successfully combine the businesses of Historical GameStop and EB in a manner that permits those cost savings synergies to be realized. In addition, we must achieve these savings without adversely affecting our revenues. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the mergers may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. We depend upon our key personnel and they would be difficult to replace. Our success depends upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain key management for our stores and skilled merchandising, marketing and administrative personnel at our headquarters. We depend upon the continued services of our key executive officers, R. Richard Fontaine, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Daniel A. DeMatteo, our Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer, Steven R. Morgan, our President, and David W. Carlson, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. The loss of services of any of our key personnel could have a negative impact on our business. We depend upon the timely delivery of products. We depend on major hardware manufacturers, primarily Sony, Nintendo and Microsoft, to deliver new and existing video game platforms on a timely basis and in anticipated quantities. In addition, we depend on software publishers to introduce new and updated software titles. Any material delay in the introduction or delivery of hardware platforms or software titles could result in reduced sales in one or more fiscal quarters. We depend upon third parties to develop products and software. Our business depends upon the continued development of new and enhanced video game platforms, PC hardware and video game and PC entertainment software. Our business could suffer due to the failure of manufacturers to develop new or enhanced video game platforms, a decline in the continued technological development and use of multimedia PCs, or the failure of software publishers to develop popular game and entertainment titles for current or future generation video game systems or PC hardware. Our ability to obtain favorable terms from our suppliers may impact our financial results. Our financial results depend significantly upon the business terms we can obtain from our suppliers, including competitive prices, unsold product return policies, advertising and market development allowances, freight charges and payment terms. We purchase substantially all of our products directly from manufacturers, software publishers and approximately five distributors. Our largest vendors are Sony, Microsoft and Electronic Arts, which accounted for 18%, 13% and 11%, respectively, of our new product purchases in fiscal 2005. If our suppliers do not provide us with favorable business terms, we may not be able to offer products to our customers at competitive prices. If our vendors fail to provide marketing and merchandising support at historical levels, our sales and earnings could be negatively impacted. The manufacturers of video game hardware and software and PC entertainment software have typically provided retailers with significant marketing and merchandising support for their products. As part of this support, we receive cooperative advertising and market development payments from these vendors. These cooperative advertising and market development payments enable us to actively promote and merchandise the products we sell and drive sales at our stores and on our website. We cannot assure you that vendors will continue to provide this support at historical levels. If they fail to do so, our sales and earnings could be negatively impacted. 15 Table of Contents The electronic game industry is cyclical, which could cause significant fluctuation in our earnings. The electronic game industry has been cyclical in nature in response to the introduction and maturation of new technology. Following the introduction of new video game platforms, sales of these platforms and related software and accessories generally increase due to initial demand, while sales of older platforms and related products generally decrease as customers migrate toward the new platforms. New video game platforms have historically been introduced approximately every five years. If video game platform manufacturers fail to develop new hardware platforms, our sales of video game products could decline. Pressure from our competitors may force us to reduce our prices or increase spending, which could decrease our profitability. The electronic game industry is intensely competitive and subject to rapid changes in consumer preferences and frequent new product introductions. We compete with mass merchants and regional chains, including Wal-Mart and Target; computer product and consumer electronics stores, including Best Buy and Circuit City; other video game and PC software specialty stores located in malls and other locations; toy retail chains, including Toys “R” Us; mail-order businesses; catalogs; direct sales by software publishers; and online retailers. In addition, video games are available for rental from many video stores, some of whom, like Movie Gallery and Blockbuster, have increased the availability of video game products for sale. Video game products may also be distributed through other methods which may emerge in the future. We also compete with sellers of used video game products. Some of our competitors in the electronic game industry have longer operating histories and may have greater financial resources than we do. Additionally, we compete with other forms of entertainment activities, including movies, television, theater, sporting events and family entertainment centers. If we lose customers to our competitors, or if we reduce our prices or increase our spending to maintain our customers, we may be less profitable. International events could delay or prevent the delivery of products to our suppliers. Our suppliers rely on foreign sources, primarily in Asia, to manufacture a portion of the products we purchase from them. As a result, any event causing a disruption of imports, including the imposition of import restrictions or trade restrictions in the form of tariffs or quotas, could increase the cost and reduce the supply of products available to us, which could lower our sales and profitability. Our international operations expose us to numerous risks. We have international retail operations in Australia, Canada and Europe. Because release schedules for hardware and software introduction in these countries often differ from release schedules in the United States, the timing of increases and decreases in foreign sales may differ from the timing of increases or decreases in domestic sales. We are also subject to a number of other factors that may affect our current or future international operations. These include: • economic downturns; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • international incidents; • government instability; and • an increasing number of competitors entering our current and potential markets. Possible changes in our global tax rate. As a result of our operations in many foreign countries, our global tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Depending upon the sources of our income, any agreements we may have with taxing authorities in various jurisdictions and the tax filing positions we take in various jurisdictions, our overall tax rate may be higher than other companies or higher than our tax rates have been in the past. We base our estimate of an annual effective tax rate at any given point in time on a calculated mix of the tax rates applicable to our company and to estimates of the amount of income to be derived in any given jurisdiction. 16 Table of Contents A change in the mix of our business from year to year and from country to country, changes in rules related to accounting for income taxes, changes in tax laws in any of the multiple jurisdictions in which we operate or adverse outcomes from the tax audits that regularly are in process in any jurisdiction in which we operate could result in an unfavorable change in our overall tax rate, which could have a material effect on our business and results of our operations. If we are unable to renew or enter into new leases on favorable terms, our revenue growth may decline. All of our retail stores are located in leased premises. If the cost of leasing existing stores increases, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our existing store locations as leases expire. In addition, we may not be able to enter into new leases on favorable terms or at all, or we may not be able to locate suitable alternative sites or additional sites for new store expansion in a timely manner. Our revenues and earnings may decline if we fail to maintain existing store locations, enter into new leases, locate alternative sites or find additional sites for new store expansion. The ability to download video games and play video games on the Internet could lower our sales. While it is currently only possible to download current release video game software onto existing video game platforms over the Internet on a limited basis, at some point in the future this technology may become more prevalent. A limited selection of PC entertainment software and older generation video games may currently be purchased for download over the Internet, and as technology advances, a broader selection of games may become available for purchase and download or playing on the Internet. If advances in technology continue to expand our customers’ ability to access software through these and other sources, our customers may no longer choose to purchase video games or PC entertainment software in our stores. As a result, our sales and earnings could decline. If we fail to keep pace with changing industry technology, we will be at a competitive disadvantage. The interactive entertainment industry is characterized by swiftly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new and enhanced product introductions and product obsolescence. These characteristics require us to respond quickly to technological changes and to understand their impact on our customers’ preferences. If we fail to keep pace with these changes, our business may suffer. An adverse trend in sales during the holiday selling season could impact our financial results. Our business, like that of many retailers, is seasonal, with the major portion of our sales and operating profit realized during the fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday selling season. During fiscal 2005, on a pro forma basis, we generated approximately 38% of our sales and approximately 75% of our operating earnings during the fourth quarter. Any adverse trend in sales during the holiday selling season could lower our results of operations for the fourth quarter and the entire year. Our results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter depending upon several factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • the timing of new product releases; • the timing of new store openings; and • shifts in the timing of certain promotions. These and other factors could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and this makes the prediction of our financial results on a quarterly basis difficult. Also, it is possible that our quarterly financial results may be below the expectations of public market analysts. 17 Table of Contents Our failure to effectively manage new store openings could lower our sales and profitability. Our growth strategy is largely dependent upon opening new stores and operating them profitably. We opened 377 stores in fiscal 2005 and expect to open approximately 400 new stores in fiscal 2006. EB opened 415 stores in fiscal 2005, prior to the consummation of the mergers. Our ability to open new stores and operate them profitably depends upon a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control. These factors include: • the ability to identify new store locations, negotiate suitable leases and build out the stores in a timely and cost efficient manner; • the ability to hire and train skilled associates; • the ability to integrate new stores into our existing operations; and • the ability to increase sales at new store locations. Our growth will also depend on our ability to process increased merchandise volume resulting from new store openings through our inventory management systems and distribution facilities in a timely manner. If we fail to manage new store openings in a timely and cost efficient manner, our growth may decrease. If our management information systems fail to perform or are inadequate, our ability to manage our business could be disrupted. We rely on computerized inventory and management systems to coordinate and manage the activities in our distribution centers, as well as to communicate distribution information to the off-site third-party operated distribution centers with which we work. The third-party distribution centers pick up products from our suppliers, repackage the products for each of our stores and ship those products to our stores by package carriers. We use inventory replenishment systems to track sales and inventory. Our ability to rapidly process incoming shipments of new release titles and deliver them to all of our stores, either that day or by the next morning, enables us to meet peak demand and replenish stores at least twice a week, to keep our stores in stock at optimum levels and to move inventory efficiently. If our inventory or management information systems fail to adequately perform these functions, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, if operations in any of our distribution centers were to shut down for a prolonged period of time or if these centers were unable to accommodate the continued store growth in a particular region, our business could suffer. We may engage in acquisitions which could negatively impact our business if we fail to successfully complete and integrate them. To enhance our efforts to grow and compete, we may engage in acquisitions. Our plans to pursue future acquisitions are subject to our ability to negotiate favorable terms for these acquisitions. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that future acquisitions will be completed. In addition, to facilitate future acquisitions, we may take actions that could dilute the equity interests of our stockholders, increase our debt or cause us to assume contingent liabilities, all of which may have a detrimental effect on the price of our common stock. Finally, if any acquisitions are not successfully integrated with our business, our ongoing operations could be adversely affected. Our Class A and Class B common stock have historically traded at different values, which may or may not continue. The holders of our Class A and Class B common stock generally have identical rights, except that holders of our Class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share and holders of our Class B common stock are entitled to ten votes per share on all matters to be voted on by our stockholders. As of March 24, 2006, we had 43,307,633 shares of our Class A common stock outstanding and 29,901,662 shares of our Class B common stock outstanding. From the initial time in November 2004 that our Class B common stock began publicly trading, it has traded at a discount to our Class A common stock. Such discount in trading price may continue, may increase or may decrease solely as a result of market forces over which we have no control. 18 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash, the availability of which depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. These factors include: • our reliance on suppliers and vendors for sufficient quantities of their products and new product releases and our ability to obtain favorable terms from these suppliers and vendors; • economic conditions affecting the electronic game industry as a whole; • the highly competitive environment in the electronic game industry and the resulting pressure from our competitors potentially forcing us to reduce our prices or increase spending; • our ability to open and operate new stores; • our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; and • our dependence upon software publishers to develop popular game and entertainment titles for video game systems and PCs. If our financial condition or operating results deteriorate, our relations with our creditors, including holders of our Senior Floating Rate Notes and our Senior Notes, or collectively the notes, the lenders under our Senior Credit Facility and our suppliers, may be materially and adversely impacted. As a result of the mergers, we have substantial debt that could adversely impact cash availability for growth and operations and may increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. We incurred significant additional debt as a result of the mergers. As of January 28, 2006, we had approximately $976.0 million of indebtedness. Our debt service obligations with respect to this increased indebtedness could have an adverse impact on our earnings and cash flows for as long as the indebtedness is outstanding. Our increased indebtedness could have important consequences to you, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; • we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments on the notes and our Senior Credit Facility, which will reduce the funds available to us for other purposes such as potential acquisitions and capital expenditures; • we may have a higher level of indebtedness than some of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage and reduce our flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in our industry, including increased competition; and • we are more vulnerable to general economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the notes. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our Senior Credit Facility and the indenture governing the notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from such dispositions. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions, dispose of our assets at prices that we believe are fair or use the proceeds from asset sales to make payments on the notes and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. 19 Table of Contents Because of our incurrence of floating rate debt resulting from financing arrangements entered into in connection with the mergers, we may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. Our financial position is affected, in part, by fluctuations in interest rates. Significant portions of our outstanding debt are held at floating interest rates, including the Senior Floating Rate Notes and our Senior Credit Facility. In addition, under the terms of the indenture for the notes, if we do not complete an offer to exchange the notes for substantially identical publicly registered notes by June 23, 2006, the interest rate on the notes will increase by 25 basis points until we complete the exchange offer. Increased interest rates may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow by increasing the amount of interest expense that we are obligated to pay on our floating rate debt. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. A significant increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our operations are substantially restricted by the indenture governing the notes and the terms of our Senior Credit Facility. The indenture for the notes imposes, and the terms of any future debt may impose, significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions, among other things, limit the issuers of the notes ability and the ability of GameStop’s restricted subsidiaries to: • incur, assume or permit to exist additional indebtedness or guaranty obligations; • incur liens or agree to negative pledges in other agreements; • engage in sale and leaseback transactions; • make loans and investments; • declare dividends, make payments or redeem or repurchase capital stock; • engage in mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations; • prepay, redeem or purchase certain indebtedness; • amend or otherwise alter the terms of our organizational documents and our indebtedness, including the notes; • sell assets; and • transact with affiliates. We cannot assure you that these covenants will not adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to pursue available business opportunities. The Senior Credit Facility contains various restrictive covenants prohibiting us, in certain circumstances, from, among other things, prepaying, redeeming or purchasing certain indebtedness. Despite current anticipated indebtedness levels and restrictive covenants, we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including additional secured indebtedness. Although the terms of the indenture governing the notes and our Senior Credit Facility restrict the issuers of the notes and GameStop’s restricted subsidiaries from incurring additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to important exceptions and qualifications. If we incur additional indebtedness, the risks that we now face as a result of our leverage could intensify. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 20 Table of Contents 