ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS THE FOLLOWING MATTERS MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OR PROSPECTS, FINANCIAL OR OTHERWISE. REFERENCE TO THIS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT IN THE CONTEXT OF A FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT OR STATEMENTS SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A STATEMENT THAT ANY ONE OR MORE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS MAY CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THOSE IN SUCH FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT OR STATEMENTS. Risks Related to Our Business Our limited operating history makes evaluation of our business difficult. We have a limited operating history and have encountered and expect to continue to encounter many of the difficulties and uncertainties often faced by early stage companies. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects, including our ability to develop a wide customer and distribution network for our services, to expand our operations to include additional services and to control raw material costs, all of which are critical to our success. An investor must consider our business and our prospects in light of the risks, uncertainties and difficulties common to early stage companies. We may encounter unanticipated problems, expenses and delays in developing and marketing our services and securing additional blending and storage facilities. We may not be able to successfully address these risks. If we are unable to address these risks, our business may not grow, our stock price may suffer, and we may be unable to stay in business. -18- Key employees are essential to growing our business. Mr.Chunfeng Tao, Mr. Jingtao Ma, Mr. Shifa Wang, and Mr. Mingliang Liu are essential to our ability to continue to grow our business. They have established relationships with customers and suppliers within the industries in which we operate. If one or more of these key employees were to leave us, our relationships with our customers and suppliers may become strained, and our growth strategy might be hindered, which could limit our ability to increase revenue. In addition, although we are located in an area with a good supply of skilled labor, we still face competition from other companies located in the same area for attracting skilled personnel. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel to meet current and future needs, this could slow our ability to grow our business, which could result in a decrease in market share. We continue to be dependent on bank loans and other short term financing in order to fund our purchases of raw materials. In order to operate our business efficiently, we rely on short term bank financing to fund the purchase of raw materials. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately RMB895 million of short term debt, RMB215 million of long term debt, and lines of credit from 11 banks. Typically, the term for a short term bank loan is one year while a long term bank loan has a term of three or four years. Bank loans are renewable at the banks’ option. During the first six months of 2011, we paid back approximately RMB295 million and borrowed approximately RMB495 million in the form of short terms loans. As of June 30, 2011, we had approximately RMB 1,086 million of short term debt. If one or more of these banks were revoke their line of credit or fail to renew such line of credit when it is due, we would be unable to continue to purchase raw materials in the amounts necessary to continue production at our current capacity. We need additional capital to expand our manufacturing facility and we may not be able to obtain it at acceptable terms, or at all, which could adversely affect our ability to increase our production capacity and expand our business. We are working to expand our manufacturing capacity to include additional storage capacity, a raw material pre-treatment facility and an asphalt production facility. The estimated cost of these expansions (excluding land costs) is approximately $70 million, including $20 million for facility construction, $40 million for new equipment, and $10 million for working capital. We plan to fund these expansions through short-term borrowings, cash from operations and potential equity financing. However, our ability to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including, but not limited to: • investors’ perception of, and demand for, securities of petrochemical manufacturing and supply companies; • conditions of the U.S. and other capital markets in which we may seek to raise funds; • our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flow; • PRC governmental regulation of foreign investment in petrochemical manufacturing companies in China; • economic, political and other conditions in China; and • PRC governmental policies relating to foreign currency borrowings Our operations may be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the petroleum and petrochemical market and by the volatility of prices of our raw materials and petrochemical products. All of our revenues are attributable to petrochemical products, which have historically been cyclical and sensitive to the availability and price of raw materials and general economic conditions. Markets for many of our products are sensitive to changes in industry capacity and output levels, cyclical changes in regional and global economic conditions, the price and availability of substitute products and changes in consumer demand, which from time to time have had a significant impact on product prices in the regional and global markets. Historically, the markets for these products have experienced alternating periods of tight supply, causing prices and margins to increase, followed by periods of capacity additions, finally resulting in oversupply and declining prices and margins. As tariffs and other import restrictions are reduced and the control of product pricing is relaxed in China, the markets for many of our products have become increasingly subject to the cyclicality of regional and global markets. Raw material costs accounted for more than 90% of our Cost of Goods Sold. Volatility of raw material costs could have significant negative impact on our profitability. Our operation may be interrupted by weather conditions and power shutdowns and our operating results may therefore be adversely affected Our operating results depend largely on the uninterrupted operation of our business. Our facilities are located at Beilun, Ningbo, China, by the east coast. Severe weather conditions and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, storms, floods, and other severe weather events could disrupt our operations. Additionally, we are located in an industrial park where the infrastructure such as the electricity grid is in need of periodic upgrade. Disruptions to our operations due to natural conditions discussed above and/or mandatory power shutdowns due to the periodic electricity grid upgrades could significantly affect our ability to manufacture and/or sell products, which would result in a substantial loss of sales and revenues and substantial harm to our operating results. -19- Our manufacturing processes could expose us to substantial product liability claims which may negatively impact our profitability. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in adverse side effects. Side effects or marketing or manufacturing problems pertaining to any of our products could result in product liability claims or adverse publicity. These risks will exist for those products in clinical development and with respect to those products that have received regulatory approval for commercial sale. To date, we have not experienced any product liability claims. However, that does not mean that we will not have any such claims with respect to our products in the future which may negatively impact our profitability. In the past several years we have derived a significant portion of our revenues from a small group of customers and we have purchased raw material from a small group of suppliers. If we are to remain dependent upon only a few customers and a few raw material suppliers, such dependency could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our five largest customers accounted for 40% of our total sales. For the year ended December 31, 2009, our five largest customers accounted for 71% of our total revenue,. As our customer base may change from year-to-year, during such years that the customer base is comparatively highly concentrated, the loss of, or reduction of our sales to, any of such major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our three largest suppliers accounted for 61% of our total raw material purchases. For the year ended December 31, 2009, our three largest suppliers accounted for approximately 52% of our raw material purchases. As our supplier base may change from year-to-year, during such years that the supplier base is highly concentrated, the loss of, or reduction of our raw material supply from, any of such major suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be exposed to risks relating to our disclosure controls and our internal controls and may need to incur significant costs to comply with applicable requirements. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. We maintain a system of internal controls over financial reporting, which is defined as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by our Board of Directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. During the process of preparing the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2010, on or about March 24, 2011, KPMG, the Company’s prior independent auditor, raised certain issues primarily relating to the unexplained issues regarding certain cash transactions and recorded sales and requested that the Audit Committee conduct an independent investigation. Based on the issues raised by KPMG, on March 31, 2011, our Audit Committee elected to commence an independent Investigation of the issues raised and engaged the services of the Investigation Team. Following the Investigation, the Audit Committee identified, among other issues, inadequate disclosure and issues regarding internal control and procedures. In order to improve corporate governance and enhance internal controls, management and our Board of Directors are committed to fully adopting and implementing the recommendations of the Audit Committee in addition to all of the corrective actions the Company has taken to date. For more details of the corrective actions, please refer to Item 9A Controls and Procedures herein after. Notwithstanding the foregoing corrective actions, we cannot currently ensure that our controls and procedures will be effective at any time in the immediate future. Moreover, in order to improve our controls and procedures we anticipate that we will continue to incur significant costs. Failure to properly improve our controls and procedures could result in our failure to meet our reporting obligations, result in the restatement of our past financial statements, cause harm to our operating results, subject us to regulatory scrutiny and sanction, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the market price for shares of our common stock, all of which present significant risk to our investors. Insurance coverage for some of our operations may be insufficient to cover losses. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of its development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products or offer them at a high price. We do not maintain insurance coverage for various risks, including environmental claims. A significant uninsured claim against us would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. -20- Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that require us to obtain environmental permits for our operations. We have obtained relevant environmental licenses or approvals to conduct the manufacturing of petrochemical products in our operating subsidiary Ningbo Keyuan. If we fail to obtain all required environmental permits for our operations, or comply with the provisions of our permit, we could be subject to fines, criminal charges or other sanctions by regulators, including the suspension or termination of our operations. We are required to comply with extensive and complex environmental laws and regulations at various levels in the PRC relating to, among other things: • the handling of petrochemical products; • the operation of petrochemical product storage facilities; • workplace safety; • environmental damage; and • hazardous waste disposal. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in violation of environmental laws or regulations, we could be subject to liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. Our facilities passed inspection by the Ningbo City environmental protection authorities after the completion of construction. However, we cannot assure you that at all times we will be in compliance with environmental laws and regulations or our environmental permits or that we will not be required to expend significant funds to comply with, or discharge liabilities arising under, environmental laws, regulations and permits. Our failure to protect our technologies could have a negative impact on our business. Our manufacturing technologies and process, which have or have not been patented or registered as our property, are key components of our competitive advantage and our growth strategy. On January 25, 2011 we received approval for a patent related to the Company's proprietary production process, called MEP (Multiple Ethylene Propylene). MEP is an exclusive and leading technology used in Keyuan's existing production process. The utility model patent received, #ZL-2010-2-0191523.6, applies to a processing technology used in the production of ethylene and propylene. We also rely on confidentiality and license agreements with certain of our employees, customers and others to protect the confidentiality of our technologies. If we are unable to adequately protect the confidentiality of these technologies, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. Though we are currently a smaller reporting company (market cap less than $75,000,000), we have incurred significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. Additionally, from April 2011 to September 2011, we have incurred approximately $5,000,000 in connection with the Independent Investigation commenced by our Audit Committee at the request of our former auditor KPMG. We may continue to incur costs for the various corrective actions we are taking and committed to taking to improve our internal controls and procedures, as well as corporate governance. Furthermore, if the Company’s market cap exceeds $75 million, we will be subject to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, has required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these rules and regulations, along with the corrective actions to improve our controls and procedures, to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs and to make certain corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. Additionally, if we are unable to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act’s internal controls requirements, we may not be able to obtain the independent auditor certifications that Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires publicly-traded companies to obtain. We may be subject to penalties or fines from the Chinese government as a result of possible violations of PRC laws or regulations Our management and our Board of Directors have reviewed our past practices and have been advised that several of these practices may result in possible violation of PRC laws or regulations. Specifically, a) we maintained an off-balance account to pay service providers who were not able to issue formal invoices, to distribute cash bonus to our key employees and officers, to pay rental for certain officers’ dormitories whose residences are far from our factory, etc. However, we are advised that such practices may result in violation of PRC laws. As a result, we ceased the use of such off-balance account in April 2011 and have recorded, and will record, all transactions in that account into our financial statement in the relevant annual report and interim report. b) In September 2010, we adopted a numbering system to bar scan our products to avoid any misrepresentation of the nature of our products. In the past we sometimes accommodated requests from our customers to change the name of products so that our customers could save on freight costs. c) in the past, we engaged with certain related and other parties in short term financings to overcome the restrictions regarding the use of certain bank loans or to satisfy the banks’ internal requirements to demonstrate the usage of the loans. Though we are current on our loan payments and as a general rule, the risk of prosecution and or civil liabilities is diminished if the loans have been repaid, we are advised that such practices may have been in violation of PRC banking laws. d) in 2010, RMB 21 million was transferred by Ningbo Keyuan to one of its employees with no collateral or written agreement. The RMB 21 million was subsequently returned by the employee The funds were used by the employee to assist an investor in the September 2010 Private Placement, in converting RMB to U.S. dollars. However, such action may violate PRC foreign exchange laws and regulations. If Ningbo Keyuan is held responsible for any such violation conducted by the employee and the investor, Ningbo Keyuan may be subject to penalties. Though we have discontinued the above mentioned practices, we may be in violation of PRC laws or regulations due to our past practices. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we may not be subject to penalties or fines from the Chinese regulators if they decide to proceed against us and we cannot assure you that there will be no other violation of any current PRC laws or regulations identified by the relevant government regulators in the future. -21- We may face litigation and/or regulatory action as a result of recent events. Although we are currently unaware of any pending claims, as a result of recent events, including but not limited to the delisting of our stock from the NASDAQ, our failure to file periodic reports as they are due for approximately six months and our failure to comply with certain registration requirements related to common shares underlying our preferred stock and warrants, we may become subject to litigation from shareholders and other investors. Additionally, we may also become subject to regulatory enforcement actions in either the U.S. and/or China. If we are forced to defend either a civil law suit brought by outside shareholders or investors and/or a regulatory action, we will be required to expend significant additional funds that could otherwise be utilized for business purposes. Additionally, defense of such claims will result in management expending additional time and focus in connection with such defense that may materially impact its ability to effectively run our business. Risks Relating to Regulation of Our Business Uncertainties with respect to the governing regulations could have a material and adverse effect on us. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of the PRC laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business and our ownership of the equity interests in our PRC subsidiaries, both of which are wholly foreign owned enterprise under the PRC laws. These laws and regulations are relatively new and may be subject to change, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. The PRC government has broad discretion in dealing with violations of laws and regulations, including levying fines, revoking business permits and other licenses and requiring actions necessary for compliance. In particular, licenses and permits issued or granted to the PRC subsidiary by relevant governmental bodies may be revoked at a later time by higher regulatory bodies. We cannot predict the effect of the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations on our businesses. We cannot assure you that our current ownership and operating structure would not be found to be in violation of any current or future PRC laws or regulations. As a result, we may be subject to sanctions, including fines, and could be required to restructure our operations or cease to provide certain services. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Any of these or similar actions could significantly disrupt our business operations or restrict us from conducting a substantial portion of our business operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our PRC subsidiaries will be subject to restrictions on dividend payments. We conduct all of our business through our consolidated subsidiaries incorporated in the PRC. We rely on dividends paid by these consolidated subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay any dividends and other cash distributions to our stockholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities established in the PRC is subject to limitations. Current regulations in the PRC would permit the PRC subsidiary to pay dividends to us only out of its accumulated distributable profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, our PRC subsidiaries will be required to set aside at least 10% (up to an aggregate amount equal to half of its registered capital) of its accumulated profits each year. Such cash reserve may not be distributed as cash dividends. In addition, if the PRC subsidiary incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. Under U.S. GAAP (Financial Accounting Standard Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) Topic 740-30), no deferred tax expense is required to be recorded on the earnings of foreign subsidiaries when the parent company establishes that the earnings will be permanently reinvested outside the U.S. If dividend payments are made by our subsidiaries to the US parent, additional U.S. tax could become due in future years. At the time of the repatriation or investment in U.S. property, the U.S. will tax the foreign earnings as a dividend and will allow a foreign tax credit for any foreign taxes previously paid on the earnings. To the extent that dividend payments are made by our PRC subsidiaries to our US Parent additional tax may be due. PRC regulations on loans and direct investments by overseas holding companies in PRC entities may delay or prevent us to make overseas loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiary. Under the PRC laws, foreign investors may make loans to their PRC subsidiaries or foreign investors may make additional capital contributions to their PRC subsidiaries. Any loans to such PRC subsidiaries are subject to the PRC regulations and foreign exchange loan registrations, i.e. loans by foreign investors to their PRC subsidiaries to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (the “SAFE”), or its local branch. Foreign investors may also decide to finance their PRC subsidiaries by means of additional capital contributions. These capital contributions must be examined and approved by the Ministry of Commerce of the People’s Republic of China (the “MOFCOM”), or its local branch in advance. -22- Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China, and such classification would likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC stockholders. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress (the “NPC”), approved and promulgated the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law (herein referred as the “New EIT Law”). The New EIT Law took effect on January 1, 2008. Under the New EIT Law, Foreign Investment Enterprises (“FIEs”), and domestic companies are subject to a uniform tax rate of 25%. In addition, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise” which means that we may be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. Under the New EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the New EIT Law define de facto management as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. On April 22, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, issued a circular, or SAT Circular 82, which provides certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a PRC-controlled enterprise that is incorporated offshore is located in China, which include all of the following conditions: (a) the location where senior management members responsible for an enterprise’s daily operations discharge their duties; (b) the location where financial and human resource decisions are made or approved by organizations or persons; (c) the location where the major assets and corporate documents are kept; and (d) the location where more than half (inclusive) of all directors with voting rights or senior management have their habitual residence. Although the SAT Circular 82 only applies to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise groups, not those controlled by PRC individuals or foreigners, the determining criteria set forth in the SAT Circular 82 may reflect the SAT’s general position on how the “de facto management body” text should be applied in determining the tax resident status of all offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises or individuals. Due to the short history of the New EIT Law and lack of applicable legal precedents, it remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will determine the PRC tax resident treatment of a foreign company controlled by individuals like us. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are “resident enterprises” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to the enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. In our case, this would mean that income such as interest on offering proceeds and non-China source income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%. Second, although under the New EIT Law and its implementing rules, dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempt income,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax Finally, it is possible that “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC enterprise stockholders and with respect to gains derived by our non-PRC enterprise stockholders from transferring our shares and a 20% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC individual stockholders and with respect to gains derived by our non-PRC individual stockholders from transferring our shares.. We are actively monitoring the possibility of “resident enterprise” treatment for the applicable tax years and are evaluating appropriate organizational changes to avoid this treatment, to the extent possible. If we were treated as a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities, we would be subject to taxation in both the U.S. and China, and our PRC tax may not be credited against our U.S. tax. If we receive any dividends from our PRC subsidiaries in the future, the dividends may be subject to PRC withholding tax. The New EIT Law and the Implementation Rules of the New EIT Law provides that an income tax rate of 10% may be applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises”, which (i) do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or (ii) have such establishment or place of business in the PRC but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC. The income tax for non-resident enterprises shall be subject to withholding at the income source, with the payer acting as the obligatory withholder under the New EIT Law, and therefore such income taxes are generally called withholding tax in practice. It is currently unclear in what circumstances a source will be considered as located within the PRC. We are an offshore holding company. Thus, if Keyuan HK is considered as a “non-resident enterprise” under the New EIT Law and the dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries in the PRC are considered income sourced within the PRC, such dividends may be subject to a withholding tax at a rate up to 10%. In January 2009, the State Administration of Taxation, or SAT, promulgated the Provisional Measures for the Administration of Withholding of Enterprise Income Tax for Non-resident Enterprises (“Measures”), pursuant to which, the entities which have the direct obligation to make the following payment to a non-resident enterprise shall be the relevant tax withholders for such non-resident enterprise, and such payment includes: incomes from equity investment (including dividends and other return on investment), interests, rents, royalties, and incomes from assignment of property as well as other incomes subject to enterprise income tax received by non-resident enterprises in China. Given these Measures, our PRC subsidiaries have an obligation to withhold income tax in respect of the dividends paid to non-resident enterprise investors. The new tax law provides only a framework of the enterprise tax provisions, leaving many details on the definitions of numerous terms as well as the interpretation and specific applications of various provisions unclear and unspecified. Any increase in the combined company’s tax rate in the future could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of operations. -23- We face uncertainty from China’s Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Enterprise Income Tax on Non-Resident Enterprises' Share Transfer (Circular 698 that was released in December 2009 with retroactive effect from January 1, 2008.) The Chinese State Administration of Taxation released a circular (“Circular 698”) on December 10, 2009 that addresses the transfer of shares by nonresident companies. Circular 698, which is effective retroactively to January 1, 2008, may have a significant impact on many companies that use offshore holding companies to invest in China. Pursuant to Circular 698, where the withholding agent does not withhold in accordance with laws or can’t perform the withholding obligation, the non-resident enterprises shall file a tax declaration with the PRC tax authority located at the place of the resident enterprise whose equity has been transferred, within seven days agree the date of the equity transfer provided under the contracts. Where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise by selling the shares in an offshore holding company, and the latter is located in a country or jurisdiction where the effective tax burden is less than 12.5% or where the offshore income of his, her, or its residents is not taxable, the foreign investor is required to provide the tax authority in charge of that Chinese resident enterprise with the relevant information within 30 days of the transfers. Moreover, where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise through an abuse of form of organization and there are no reasonable commercial purposes such that the corporate income tax liability is avoided, the PRC tax authority will have the power to re-assess the nature of the equity transfer in accordance with PRC’s “substance-over-form” principle and deny the existence of the offshore holding company that is used for tax planning purposes. There is uncertainty as to the application of Circular 698. For example, while the term "indirectly transfer" is not defined, it is understood that the relevant PRC tax authorities have jurisdiction regarding requests for information over a wide range of foreign entities having no direct contact with China. Moreover, the relevant authority has not yet promulgated any formal provisions or formally declared or stated how to calculate the effective tax in the country or jurisdiction and to what extent and the process of the disclosure to the tax authority in charge of that Chinese resident enterprise. In addition, there are no formal declarations with regard to how to decide abuse of form of organization and reasonable commercial purpose, which can be utilized by us to balance if our company complies with the Circular 698. As a result, we may become at risk of being taxed under Circular 698 and we may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Circular 698 or to establish that we should not be taxed under Circular 698, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our PRC subsidiaries are obligated to withhold and pay PRC individual income tax on behalf of our employees who are subject to PRC individual income tax. If we fail to withhold or pay such individual income tax in accordance with applicable PRC regulations, we may be subject to certain sanctions and other penalties and may become subject to liability under PRC laws. Under PRC laws, Ningbo Keyuan and Ningbo Keyuan Petrochemicals are obligated to withhold and pay individual income tax on behalf of our employees who are subject to PRC individual income tax. If any PRC subsidiary fails to withhold and/or pay such individual income tax in accordance with PRC laws, it may be subject to certain sanctions and other penalties and may become subject to liability under PRC laws. We paid employees, senior management members and outside individual service providers cash compensation or awards totaling approximately RMB 4.8 million (approximately $709,000) in Year 2009, 2010 and first two months of 2011 without withholding individual income tax. Though we have stopped such practice and will follow any compensation recommendation from our compensation committee in the future, we may be subject to certain sanctions and other penalties and may become subject to liability under applicable tax laws in China. In addition, the SAT has issued several circulars concerning employee stock options. Under these circulars, our employees working in the PRC (which could include both PRC employees and expatriate employees subject to PRC individual income tax) who exercise stock options will be subject to PRC individual income tax. Our PRC subsidiaries have obligations to file documents related to employee stock options with relevant tax authorities and withhold and pay individual income taxes for those employees who exercise their stock options. While tax authorities may advise us that our policy is compliant, they may change their policy, and we could be subject to sanctions Regulations of Overseas Investments and Listings may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the MOFCOM, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (the“CSRC”), the State Asset Supervision and Administration Commission (the “SASAC”), the State Administration of Taxation (the “SAT”), the State Administration for Industry and Commerce (the “SAIC”) and SAFE, amended and released the New M&A Rule, which took effect as of September 8, 2006. This regulation, among other things, includes provisions that purport to require that an offshore company formed for purposes of overseas listing of equity interest in PRC companies and controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals (an “SPV”) obtain the approval of CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such SPV’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. The application of the New M&A Rule with respect to overseas listings of SPVs remains unclear. -24- It is not clear whether the provisions in the new regulation regarding the offshore listing and trading of the securities of a SPV apply to an offshore company such as us which owns equity interests in Ningbo Keyuan and Ningbo Keyuan Petrochemicals. We believe that the M&A Rules and CSRC approval are not required in the context of the share exchange under our transaction because (i) such share exchange is a purely foreign related transaction governed by foreign laws, not subject to the jurisdiction of PRC laws and regulations; (ii) at the time of Share Exchange, we were not an SPV formed or controlled by PRC companies or PRC individuals; (iii) Ningbo Keyuan was established as a Sino-foreign joint venture by means of direct investment rather than by merger or acquisition of an existing PRC domestic company; (iv) at the time of Share Exchange, we were owned and controlled by foreigners; and (v) there is no clear requirement in the New M&A Rule that would require an application to be submitted to the MOFCOM or CSRC for the approval of the listing and trading of our common stock on the U.S. security market. However, we cannot be certain that the relevant PRC government agencies, including CSRC, would reach the same conclusion, and we still cannot rule out the possibility that CSRC may deem that the transactions effected by the share exchange circumvented the M&A Rules, the PRC Securities Law and other rules and notices. However, through the Slow Walk Options, we are indirectly owned or substantially controlled by PRC individuals, Mr. Chunfeng Tao, Mr. Jicun Wang and Mr. Peijun Chen. If CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that CSRC’s approval is required for the transaction, we may face sanctions by CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency. If this happens, these regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from financings into the PRC, restrict or prohibit payment or remittance of dividends to us or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our shares. CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies may also take actions requiring us, or making it advisable for us, to delay or cancel the transaction. The M&A Rules, along with foreign exchange regulations discussed in the above subsection, will be interpreted or implemented by the relevant government authorities in connection with our future offshore financings or acquisitions, and we cannot predict how they will affect our business development strategy. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore holding companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners or our PRC subsidiaries to liability or penalties, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us, or may otherwise adversely affect us. In October 2005, SAFE issued the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-raising and Return Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or SAFE Notice 75, which became effective as of November 1, 2005. SAFE has also issued implemented rules to SAFE Notice 75. SAFE Notice 75 and its implementation rules require PRC residents (including both corporate entities and natural persons) to register with SAFE or its competent local branch in connection with their direct or indirect shareholding in any company outside of China referred to as an “offshore special purpose company” established for the purpose of raising funds from overseas to acquire assets of, or equity interests in, PRC companies. Under SAFE Notice 75, a “special purpose vehicle”, or SPV, refers to an offshore entity established or controlled, directly or indirectly, by PRC residents for the purpose of seeking offshore equity financing using assets or interests owned by such PRC residents in onshore companies. In addition, any PRC resident that is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend his or her SAFE registration with the SAFE or its competent local branch, with respect to that offshore special purpose company in connection with any of its increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China. The SAFE regulations require retroactive approval and registration of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in offshore special purpose companies. PRC subsidiaries of an offshore special purpose company are required to coordinate and supervise the filing of SAFE registrations by the offshore holding company’s shareholders who are PRC residents in a timely manner. In the event that a PRC resident shareholder with a direct or indirect investment in an offshore parent company fails to obtain the required SAFE approval and make the required registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profits to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE approval and registration requirements described above, as currently drafted, could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. There still remain uncertainties as to how certain procedures and requirements under the aforesaid SAFE regulations will be enforced, and it remains unclear how these existing regulations, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. Although we have requested PRC residents who, to our knowledge, hold direct or indirect interests in our company to make the necessary applications, filings and amendments as required under the SAFE Notice 75 and other related rules, our PRC resident beneficial holders have not completed such approvals and registrations required by the SAFE regulations. We cannot assure you that such PRC residents will be able to complete the necessary approval and registration procedures required by the SAFE regulations. We will attempt to comply, and attempt to ensure that all of our shareholders subject to these rules comply with the relevant requirements. We cannot, however, assure the compliance of all of our China-resident shareholders. Any current or future failure to comply with the relevant requirements could subject us to fines or sanctions imposed by the Chinese government, including restrictions on certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or hinder our investment in those subsidiaries or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. -25- Failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration requirements for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans may subject the PRC plan participants or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. In December 2006, the People’s Bank of China promulgated the Administrative Measures of Foreign Exchange Matters for Individuals, which set forth the respective requirements for foreign exchange transactions by individuals (both PRC or non-PRC citizens) under either the current account or the capital account. In January 2007, SAFE issued implementing rules for the Administrative Measures of Foreign Exchange Matters for Individuals, which, among other things, specified approval requirements for certain capital account transactions such as a PRC citizen’s participation in the employee stock ownership plans or stock option plans of an overseas publicly-listed company. In March 2007, SAFE promulgated the Application Procedures of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Ownership Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rules. Under these rules, PRC citizens who participate in an employee stock ownership plan or a stock option plan in an overseas publicly-listed company are required to register with SAFE or its local branch and complete certain other procedures. For participants of an employee stock ownership plan, an overseas custodian bank should be retained by the PRC agent, which could be the PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company, to hold on trusteeship all overseas assets held by such participants under the employee share ownership plan. In the case of a stock option plan, the PRC agent is required to retain a financial institution with stock brokerage qualification at the place where the overseas publicly-listed company is listed or a qualified institution designated by the overseas publicly-listed company to handle matters in connection with the exercise or sale of stock options for the stock option plan participants. For participants who had already participated in an employee stock ownership plan or stock option plan before the date of the Stock Option Rules, the Stock Option Rules require their PRC employers or PRC agents to complete the relevant formalities within three months of the date of this rule. Further, a notice concerning the individual income tax on earnings from employee share options jointly issued by Ministry of Finance, or the MOF, and the State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, and its implementing rules, provide that domestic companies that implement employee share option programs shall (a) file the employee share option plans and other relevant documents to the local tax authorities having jurisdiction over them before implementing such employee share option plans; (b) file share option exercise notices and other relevant documents with the local tax authorities having jurisdiction over them before exercise by the employees of the share options, and clarify whether the shares issuable under the employee share options mentioned in the notice are the shares of publicly listed companies; and (c) withhold taxes from the PRC employees in connection with the PRC individual income tax. We and our PRC citizen employees who participate in the employee stock incentive plan, which we adopted in 2010, will be subject to these regulations. We and our PRC option grantees have not completed the registrations under these regulations. We cannot assure you that we and our PRC option grantees will be able to complete the required registrations. Any current or future failure to comply with the relevant requirements could subject us to fines or sanctions imposed by the Chinese government, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. Failure to comply with PRC laws and regulations relating to the environmental protection and safety in production requirements in China may result in severe penalties and liabilities. The Chinese government has been adopting increasingly stringent regulations relating to the safety and environmental protection, and our business depends upon compliance with the aforesaid regulations and requirements. We completed an as-build acceptance inspection and we obtained relevant safety production permits and approvals from a variety of government authorities upon completion of the aforesaid inspection. The as-build inspection was conducted by the local government to make sure that a company meets all the conditions for normal production. We obtained all the necessary permits and approvals including environmental protection, firefighting and safety production before our trial production and submitted the application for as-build acceptance inspection at the end of 2009. The as-build acceptance inspection needs to be conducted within 12 months after the submission of application and we received the complete set of permits and approvals from relevant government authorities on December 16, 2010. However, there is no assurance that we will obtain or renew all such permits or approvals, which are subject to our fulfillment of the standards and requirements set out by the regulatory authorities. If we fail to pass the as-build acceptance inspection or obtain required licenses, we may be subject to fines, penalties or legal proceedings. Our operations at our production facilities are subject to periodic checks by the relevant authorities in the PRC and they have the power to take action against us, impose fines, withdraw or suspend our relevant licenses or activities or impose other penalties if we fail to comply with relevant regulations, in the event of which our business operations may be adversely affected. In addition, any change in the scope or application of these laws and regulations may limit our production capacity or increase our cost of operation and could therefore have an adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and operating results. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, penalties or legal proceedings. There can be no assurance that the Chinese government will not impose additional or stricter laws or regulations, compliance with which may cause us to incur significant capital expenditures, which it may not be able to pass on to our customers. -26- Risks Associated With Doing Business in China There are substantial risks associated with doing business in China, as set forth in the following risk factors. Our operations and assets in China are subject to significant political and economic uncertainties. Changes in PRC laws and regulations, or their interpretation, or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, imports and sources of supply, devaluations of currency or the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Under its current leadership, the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. There is no assurance, however, that the Chinese government will continue to pursue these policies, or that it will not significantly alter these policies from time to time without notice. We derive all of our sales from China. Substantially all of our sales are generated from China. We anticipate that sales of our products in China will continue to represent a substantial proportion of our total sales in the near future. Any significant decline in the condition of the PRC economy could adversely affect consumer demand of our products, among other things, which in turn would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Currency fluctuations and restrictions on currency exchange may adversely affect our business, including limiting our ability to convert Chinese Renminbi into foreign currencies and, if Chinese Renminbi were to decline in value, reducing our revenue in U.S. dollar terms. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and our operations in China use their local currency as their functional currencies. Substantially all of our revenue and expenses are in Chinese Renminbi. We are subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations with respect to any of these currencies. For example, the value of the Renminbi depends to a large extent on Chinese government policies and China’s domestic and international economic and political developments, as well as supply and demand in the local market. Since 1994, the official exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi to the U.S. dollar had generally been stable and the Renminbi had appreciated slightly against the U.S. dollar. However, on July 21, 2005, the Chinese government changed its policy of pegging the value of Chinese Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, Chinese Renminbi may fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. As a result of this policy change, Chinese Renminbi depreciated approximately 0.06% against the U.S. dollar in 2009 and appreciated approximately 3.57% in 2010. Chinese Renminbi further appreciated approximately 3.17% in the first nine month of 2011. It is possible that the Chinese government could adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in more significant fluctuation of Chinese Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. We can offer no assurance that Chinese Renminbi will be stable against the U.S. dollar or any other foreign currency. The statements of our operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates in each applicable period. To the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions could result in reduced revenue, operating expenses and net income for our international operations. Similarly, to the extent the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions could result in increased revenue, operating expenses and net income for our international operations. We are also exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as we convert the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars in consolidation. If there is a change in foreign currency exchange rates, the conversion of the foreign subsidiaries’ financial statements into U.S. dollars will lead to a translation gain or loss which is recorded as a component of other comprehensive income. In addition, we have certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the relevant entity’s functional currency. Changes in the functional currency value of these assets and liabilities create fluctuations that will lead to a transaction gain or loss. We have not entered into agreements or purchased instruments to hedge our exchange rate risks, although we may do so in the future. The availability and effectiveness of any hedging transaction may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exchange rate risks. Although Chinese governmental policies were introduced in 1996 to allow the convertibility of Chinese Renminbi into foreign currency for current account items, conversion of Chinese Renminbi into foreign exchange for capital items, such as foreign direct investment, loans or securities, requires the approval of SAFE which is under the authority of the People’s Bank of China. These approvals, however, do not guarantee the availability of foreign currency conversion. We cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain all required conversion approvals for our operations or that Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose greater restrictions on the convertibility of Chinese Renminbi in the future. Because a significant amount of our future revenue may be in the form of Chinese Renminbi, our inability to obtain the requisite approvals or any future restrictions on currency exchanges could limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in Chinese Renminbi to fund our business activities outside of China, or to repay foreign currency obligations, including our debt obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may have limited legal recourse under PRC laws if disputes arise under our contracts with third parties. The Chinese government has enacted laws and regulations dealing with matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, their experience in implementing, interpreting and enforcing these laws and regulations is limited, and our ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes is unpredictable. If our new business ventures are unsuccessful, or other adverse circumstances arise from these transactions, we face the risk that the parties to these ventures may seek ways to terminate the transactions, or, may hinder or prevent us from accessing important information regarding the financial and business operations of these acquired companies. The resolution of these matters may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by agencies of the Chinese government, and forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination. Any rights we may have to specific performance, or to seek an injunction under PRC law, in either of these cases, are severely limited, and without a means of recourse by virtue of the Chinese legal system, we may be unable to prevent these situations from occurring. The occurrence of any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -27- Because our funds are held in banks in uninsured PRC bank accounts, the failure of any bank in which we deposit our funds could affect our ability to continue our business. Funds on deposit at banks and other financial institutions in the PRC are often uninsured. A significant portion of our assets are in the form of cash deposited with banks in the PRC, and in the event of a bank failure, we may not have access to our funds on deposit. Depending upon the amount of money we maintain in a bank that fails, our inability to have access to our cash could impair our operations, and, if we are not able to access funds to pay our suppliers, employees and other creditors, we may be unable to continue in business. Our business could be severely harmed if the Chinese government changes its policies, laws, regulations, tax structure or its current interpretations of its laws, rules and regulations, relating to our operations in China. Our business is located in Ningbo, China and virtually all of our assets are located in China. We generate our sales revenue only from customers located in China. Our results of operations, financial state of affairs and future growth are, to a significant degree, subject to China’s economic, political and legal development and related uncertainties. Our operations and results could be materially affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • Changes in policies by the Chinese government resulting in changes in laws or regulations or the interpretation of laws or regulations, • changes in taxation, • changes in employment restrictions, • import duties, and • currency revaluation. Over the past several years, the Chinese government has pursued economic reform policies including the encouragement of private economic activities and greater economic decentralization. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue its present policies that encourage foreign investment and operations in China, or if these policies are either not successful or are significantly altered, then our business could be harmed. Following the Chinese government’s policy of privatizing many state-owned enterprises, the Chinese government has attempted to augment its revenues through increased tax collection. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Continued efforts to increase tax revenues could result in increased taxation expenses being incurred by us. Economic development may be limited as well by the imposition of austerity measures intended to reduce inflation, the inadequate development of infrastructure and the potential unavailability of adequate power and water supplies, transportation and communications. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry by imposing industrial policies. Failure to comply with the U.S. foreign corrupt practices act and Chinese anti-corruption laws could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. Our executive officers, employees and other agents are subject to anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws including China’s anti-corruption laws and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, we are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent our transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions, and therefore may have a competitive advantage over us. The PRC also strictly prohibits bribery of government officials. However, corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in the PRC. While we intend to implement measures to ensure compliance with the FCPA and China’s anti-corruption laws by all individuals involved with our company, our employees or other agents may engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. Since we became a U.S. public company, we have implemented strict requirements to preclude payments to government officials and limits on the amount employees can spend on gifts and entertaining clients. Although prior to our becoming a U.S public company we had given culturally traditional gifts to government officials during Spring Festival and other Chinese traditional holidays, we believe the amounts of such gifts are below the amounts that generally trigger criminal liability under PRC law. The gifts were not made with the intent to bribe or wrongfully influence any such officials. However, if our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in practices that violate either U.S or PRC laws, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our brand and reputation, our sales activities or our stock price could be adversely affected if we become the target of any negative publicity as a result of actions taken by our employees or other agents. -28- Changes in foreign exchange regulations in the PRC may affect our ability to pay dividends in foreign currency or conduct other foreign exchange business. The Renminbi is not a freely convertible currency currently, and the restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside the PRC or to make dividends or other payments in United States dollars. The PRC government strictly regulates conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies. Over the years, foreign exchange regulations in the PRC have significantly reduced the government’s control over routine foreign exchange transactions under current accounts. In the PRC, SAFE regulates the conversion of the Renminbi into foreign currencies. Pursuant to applicable PRC laws and regulations, foreign invested enterprises incorporated in the PRC are required to apply for “Foreign Exchange Registration Certificates.” Currently, conversion within the scope of the “current account” (e.g. remittance of foreign currencies for payment of dividends, etc.) can be effected without requiring the approval of SAFE. However, conversion of currency in the “capital account” (e.g. for capital items such as direct investments, loans, securities, etc.) still requires the approval of SAFE. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. China has only recently permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities, and, as a result, we are dependent on our relationship with the local government in the province in which we operate our business. Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of these jurisdictions may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties. PRC employment contract law and increases in the labor costs in China may hurt our business and profitability. A Chinese employment contract law that became effective on January 1, 2008, imposes more stringent requirements on employers in relation to entry into fixed-term employment contracts, recruitment of temporary employees and dismissal of employees. In addition, under the Regulations on Paid Annual Leave for Employees, which also became effective on January 1, 2008, employees who have worked continuously for more than one year are entitled to a paid vacation ranging from 5 to 15 days, depending on the length of the employee’s service. Employees who waive such vacation entitlements at the request of the employer will be compensated for three times their normal daily salaries for each vacation day so waived. As a result of the new law and regulations, our labor costs may increase. There is no assurance that disputes, work stoppages or strikes will not arise in the future. Increases in the labor costs or future disputes with our employees could damage our business, financial condition or operating results. According to PRC labor laws, the employer shall be responsible to deal with and pay social insurances and housing funds for all of its employees based on the actual salary of the employees. In addition, as required by PRC regulations, we participate in various employee benefit plans that are organized by municipal and provincial governments, including pension, work-related injury benefits, maternity insurance, medical and unemployment benefit plans. We are required under PRC laws to make contributions to the employee benefit plans at specified percentages of the salaries, bonuses and certain allowances of our employees, up to a maximum amount specified by the local government from time to time. Members of the retirement plan are entitled to a pension equal to a fixed proportion of the salary prevailing at the member’s retirement date. There is no guarantee that we and our subsidiaries will be able to comply with the relevant requirements. Failure to comply with the various PRC Labor Laws and regulation requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law. Future inflation in China may inhibit our ability to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit, or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. -29- We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the PRC. As a result, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC. Please refer to Item 9A. Controls and Procedures for additional information on this matter. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws, against us and our management. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China and substantially all of our assets are located in China. In addition, some of our directors and executive officers reside within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon some of our directors and senior executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. It would also be difficult for investors to bring an original lawsuit against us or our directors or executive officers before a Chinese court based on U.S. federal securities laws or otherwise. Moreover, China does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. Because Chinese laws govern almost all of our business’ material agreements, we may not be able to enforce our rights within the PRC or elsewhere, which could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. The Chinese legal system is similar to a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. Although legislation in the PRC over the past 25 years has significantly improved the protection afforded to various forms of foreign investment and contractual arrangements in the PRC, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively new. Due to the limited volume of published judicial decisions, their non-binding nature, the short history since their enactments, the discrete understanding of the judges or government agencies of the same legal provision, inconsistent professional abilities of the judicators, and the inclination to protect local interest in the court room, interpretation and enforcement of PRC laws and regulations involve uncertainties, which could limit the legal protection available to us, and foreign investors, including you. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital and could have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. In addition, any litigation in the PRC, regardless of outcome, may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Risks Related to our Securities Insiders have substantial control over us, and they could delay or prevent a change in our corporate control even if our other stockholders wanted it to occur. Pursuant to a share transfer agreement, Mr. Chunfeng Tao, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President has an option, subject to certain performance targets, to purchase from Mr. Brian Pak-Lun Mok, the current sole shareholder of Apex Smart Limited (the current owner of 45.6132% of the share capital of Delight Reward Limited), up to 100% of Apex Smart Limited’s equity, which, upon exercise, would entitle Mr. Tao to own 45.6132% of the equity of Delight Reward Limited. Delight Reward Limited holds 47,658,000 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 75.67% of our common stock. Accordingly, Mr. Tao (indirectly controls approximately 34.52% of our common stock) and other insiders are able to control all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This could delay or prevent an outside party from acquiring or merging with us even if our other stockholders wanted it to occur. There may not be sufficient liquidity in the market for our securities in order for investors to sell their securities. There is currently only a limited public market for our common stock and there can be no assurance that a trading market will develop further or be maintained in the future. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be highly volatile, as is the stock market in general. Some of the factors that may materially affect the market price of our Common Stock are beyond our control, such as changes in financial estimates by industry and securities analysts, conditions or trends in the industry in which we operate or sales of our common stock. Additionally, on April 1, 2011 trading in our common stock was halted by Nasdaq and on October 5, 2011 our common stock was delisted from Nasdaq. On October 7, 2011, our stock began trading on the Pink Sheets and it is likely that it will experience significant pressure for some time as a result of the lack of liquidity during the period in which it was halted. These factors and the event listed above may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our performance. In addition, the public stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. -30- Because we became public by means of a reverse merger, we may not be able to attract the attention of major brokerage firms. Since we became public through a “reverse merger,” the newly-issued common shares issued in connection with the “reverse merger” and the private placement are restricted shares. As a result, our common stock will continue to be very thinly traded after the reverse merger, until a considerable number of such shares are registered in an effective registration statement or become sellable under Rule 144 if all of the conditions in Rule 144(i)(2) are satisfied at the time of the proposed sale. Therefore, securities analysts of major brokerage firms may not provide coverage of our Company since there is little incentive to brokerage firms to recommend the purchase of our common stock. No assurance can be given that brokerage firms will want to conduct any secondary offerings on behalf of the Company in the future. ITEM 1B. UNSOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 