ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business We have experienced operating losses since our inception, and may incur future losses. We have incurred start-up costs, restructuring costs, impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, and losses from discontinued operations since our inception in 2007. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we incurred net losses of $14.0 million and $13.2 million, respectively. Through December 31, 2010, we had cumulative net losses of approximately $59.2 million. If we do become profitable, we may not be able to sustain our profitability. Continued losses or an inability to sustain profitability would likely have an adverse effect on our future operating prospects. We are unable to predict whether we will be successful in our efforts to achieve or maintain profitability. If we are not successful, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, included an explanatory paragraph raising substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our business activities may require additional financing that might not be obtainable on acceptable terms, if at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and our ability to operate going forward. We may need to or may choose to raise additional capital or incur debt to strengthen our cash position, facilitate expansion, pursue strategic investments, or to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. Failure to obtain any such financing on acceptable terms on a timely basis, or at all, could result in a decrease in our stock price and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and business, and could require us to significantly reduce our operations. Our strategy to transition our business to digital may not be successful. We are in the process of transitioning our core business from a retail platform to a digital platform. If we are unable to execute our strategy effectively, or in a timely manner, the Company may not have the necessary resources to successfully compete in the digital industry. Even if we are successful in our initial entry into the digital market, there is no guarantee that we could maintain, or grow, our business in this area. If our products fail to gain market acceptance, we may not have sufficient revenues to pay our expenses and to develop a continuous stream of new games. Our success depends on generating revenues from existing and new products. The market for video game products is subject to continually changing consumer preferences and the frequent introduction of new products. As a result, video game products typically have short market lives spanning only three to 12 months. Our products may not achieve and sustain market acceptance sufficient to generate revenues to cover our costs and allow us to become profitable. If our products fail to gain market acceptance, we may not have sufficient revenues to develop a continuous stream of new games, which we believe is essential to covering costs and achieving future profitability. 13 Product development schedules are long and frequently unpredictable, and we may experience delays in introducing products, which may adversely affect our revenues. The development cycle for certain of our products can exceed one year. In addition, the creative process inherent in video game development makes the length of the development cycle difficult to predict, especially in connection with products for a new hardware platform involving new technologies. As a result, we may experience delays in product introductions. If an unanticipated delay affects the release of a video game we may not achieve anticipated revenues for that game, for example, if the game is delayed until after an important selling season or after market interest in the subject matter of the game has begun to decline. A delay in introducing a video game could also require us to spend more development resources to complete the game, which would increase costs and lower margins, and could affect the development schedule for future products. Our market is subject to rapid technological change, and if we do not adapt to, and appropriately allocate our resources among, emerging technologies, our revenues will be negatively affected. Technology changes rapidly in the interactive entertainment industry. We must continually anticipate and adapt our products to emerging technologies. When we choose to incorporate a new technology into a product or to develop a product for a new platform, operating system or media format, we will likely be required to make a substantial investment one to two years prior to the introduction of the product. If we invest in the development of video games incorporating a new technology or for a new platform that does not achieve significant commercial success, our revenues from those products likely will be lower than we anticipated and may not cover our development costs. If, on the other hand, we elect not to pursue the development of products incorporating a new technology or for new platforms that achieve significant commercial success, our potential revenues would also be adversely affected, and it may take significant time and resources to shift product development resources to that technology or platform. Any such failure to adapt to, and appropriately allocate resources among, emerging technologies would harm our competitive position, reduce our market share and significantly increase the time we take to bring popular products to market. Customer accommodations could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. When demand for our product offerings falls below expectations, we may negotiate accommodations to retailers or distributors in order to maintain our relationships with our customers and access to our sales channels. These accommodations include negotiation of price discounts and credits against future orders commonly referred to as price protection. At the time of product shipment, we establish reserves for price protection and other similar allowances. These reserves are established according to our estimates of the potential for markdown allowances based upon our historical rates, expected sales, retailer inventories of products and other factors. We cannot predict with certainty whether existing reserves will be sufficient to offset any accommodations we will provide, nor can we predict the amount or nature of accommodations that we will provide in the future. If actual accommodations exceed our reserves, our earnings would be reduced, possibly materially. Any such reduction may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The granting of price protection and other allowances reduces our ability to collect receivables and impacts our availability for advances from our factoring arrangement. The continued granting of substantial price protection and other allowances may require additional funding sources to fund operations, but there can be no assurance that such funds will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Significant competition in our industry could adversely affect our business. The interactive entertainment software industry is highly competitive. It is characterized by the continuous introduction of new titles and the development of new technologies. Our competitors vary in size from very small companies with limited resources to very large corporations with greater financial, marketing and product development resources than us. 14 Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing and product development resources than we do. As a result, current and future competitors may be able to: • respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer preferences; • undertake more extensive marketing campaigns; • adopt more aggressive pricing policies; • devote greater resources to secure rights to valuable licenses and relationships with leading software developers; • gain access to wider distribution channels; and • have better access to prime shelf and interactive space, both in digital distribution channels, as well as retail. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose sales, market share, opportunities to license marketable intellectual property and access to next-generation platform technology. We also could experience difficulty hiring and retaining qualified software developers and other employees. Any of these consequences would significantly harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If game platform manufacturers refuse to license their platforms to us or do not manufacture our games on acceptable terms, on a timely basis or at all, our revenues would be adversely affected. We sell our products for use on proprietary game platforms manufactured by other companies, primarily on Nintendo, with but also at times on Microsoft and Sony. These companies can significantly affect our business because: • we may only publish their games for play on their game platforms if we receive a platform license from them, which is renewable at their discretion; • we must obtain their prior review and approval to publish games on their platforms; • if the popularity of a game platform declines or, if the manufacturer stops manufacturing a platform, does not meet the demand for a platform or delays the introduction of a platform in a region important to us, the games that we have published and that we are developing for that platform would likely produce lower sales than we anticipate; • these manufacturers control the manufacture of, or approval to manufacture, and manufacturing costs of our game discs and cartridges; • these manufacturers have the exclusive right to (1) protect the intellectual property rights to their respective hardware platforms and technology and (2) discourage others from producing unauthorized software for their platforms that compete with our games; and • the manufacturing times, particularly in the fourth quarter, can be quite long. We may be unable to manufacture our products in a timely manner, if at all, to meet holiday or other demands. We currently have licenses from Nintendo to develop products for the Wii, DS, 3DS, DsiWare, GameCube and Game Boy Advance; from Sony to develop products for the PSP, PSP Go, PS2, PS3 and PSN, from Microsoft to develop products for Xbox 360 and its controller-free accessory, Kinect and XBLA, and Steam, and from Apple to develop products for the iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch. These licenses are non-exclusive, and as a result, many of our competitors also have licenses to develop and distribute video game software for these systems. These licenses must be periodically renewed, and if they are not, or if any of our licenses are terminated or adversely modified, we may not be able to publish games for such platforms or we may be required to do so on less attractive terms. In addition, the interactive entertainment software products that we intend to develop for platforms offered by Nintendo or Sony generally are manufactured exclusively by that platform manufacturer or its approved replicator. These manufacturers generally have approval and other rights that will provide them with substantial influence over our costs and the release schedule of such products. Each of these manufacturers is also a publisher of games for its own hardware platform. A manufacturer may give priority to its own products or those of our competitors, especially if their products compete with our products. Any unanticipated delays in the release of our products or increase in our development, manufacturing, marketing or distribution costs as a result of actions by these manufacturers would significantly harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 15 Failure to renew our existing brand and content licenses on favorable terms or at all and to obtain additional licenses would impair our ability to introduce new products and services or to continue to offer our products and services based on third-party content. Some of our revenues are derived from our products and services based on or incorporating brands or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. Any of our licensors could decide not to renew our existing license or not to license additional intellectual property and instead license to our competitors or develop and publish its own products or other applications, competing with us in the marketplace. Several of these licensors already provide intellectual property for other platforms, and may have significant experience and development resources available to them should they decide to compete with us rather than license to us. In the past, competitors have successfully outbid us for licenses that we previously held. We have both exclusive and non-exclusive license arrangements and both licenses that are global and licenses that are limited to specific geographies. Our licenses generally have terms that range from two to five years. We may be unable to renew these licenses or to renew them on terms favorable to us, and we may be unable to secure alternatives in a timely manner. Failure to maintain or renew our existing licenses or to obtain additional licenses would impair our ability to introduce new products and services or to continue to offer our current products or services, which would materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Some of our existing licenses impose, and licenses that we obtain in the future might impose, development, distribution and marketing obligations on us. If we breach our obligations, our licensors might have the right to terminate the license which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Even if we are successful in gaining new licenses or extending existing licenses, we may fail to anticipate the entertainment preferences of our end users when making choices about which brands or other content to license. If the entertainment preferences of end users shift to content or brands owned or developed by companies with which we do not have relationships, we may be unable to establish and maintain successful relationships with these developers and owners, which would materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, some rights are licensed from licensors that have or may develop financial difficulties, and may enter into bankruptcy protection under U.S. federal law or the laws of other countries. If any of our licensors files for bankruptcy, our licenses might be impaired or voided, which could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Rating systems for interactive entertainment software, potential legislation and vendor or consumer opposition could inhibit sales of our products. Trade organizations within the video game industry require digital entertainment software publishers to provide consumers with information relating to graphic violence, profanity or sexually explicit material contained in software titles, and impose penalties for noncompliance. Certain countries have also established similar rating systems as prerequisites for sales of digital entertainment software in their countries. In some instances, we may be required to modify our products to comply with the requirements of these rating systems, which could delay the release of those products in these countries. We believe that we comply with such rating systems and properly display the ratings and content descriptions received for our titles. Several proposals have been made for legislation to regulate the digital entertainment software, broadcasting and recording industries, including a proposal to adopt a common rating system for digital entertainment software, television and music containing violence or sexually explicit material, and the Federal Trade Commission has issued reports with respect to the marketing of such material to minors. Consumer advocacy groups have also opposed sales of digital entertainment software containing graphic violence or sexually explicit material by pressing for legislation in these areas, including legislation prohibiting the sale of certain “M” rated video games to minors, and by engaging in public demonstrations and media campaigns. Retailers may decline to sell digital entertainment software containing graphic violence or sexually explicit material, which may limit the potential market for our “M” rated products, and adversely affect our operating results. If any groups, whether governmental entities, hardware manufacturers or advocacy groups, were to target our “M” rated titles, we might be required to significantly change or discontinue a particular title, which could adversely affect our business. 16 We could also experience delays in obtaining ratings, which would adversely impact our ability to manufacture products. We are dependent on third parties to manufacture our retail boxed products, and any delay or interruption in production would negatively affect both our ability to make timely product introductions and our results of operations. All of our boxed products are manufactured by third parties who set the manufacturing prices for those products. Therefore, we depend on these manufacturers, including platform manufacturers, to fill our orders on a timely basis and to manufacture our products at an acceptable cost. If we experience manufacturing delays or interruptions, it would harm our business and results of operations. We may be unable to develop and publish new products if we are unable to secure or maintain relationships with third party video game software developers. We utilize the services of independent software developers to develop our video games. Consequently, our success in the video game market depends on our continued ability to obtain or renew product development agreements with quality independent video game software developers. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or renew these product development agreements on favorable terms, or at all, nor can we assure you that we will be able to obtain the rights to sequels of successful products which were originally developed for us by independent video game software developers. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources and access to capital than we do, which puts us at a competitive disadvantage when bidding to attract independent video game software developers. We may be unable to secure or maintain relationships with quality independent video game software developers if our competitors can offer them better shelf access, better marketing support, more development funding, higher royalty rates, more creative control or other advantages. Usually, our agreements with independent software developers are easily terminable if either party declares bankruptcy, becomes insolvent, ceases operations or materially breaches its agreement. We have less control over a game developed by a third party because we cannot control the developer’s personnel, schedule or resources. In addition, any of our third-party developers could experience a business failure, be acquired by one of our competitors or experience some other disruption. Any of these factors could cause a game not to meet our quality standards or expectations, or not to be completed on time or at all. If this happens with a game under development, we could lose anticipated revenues from the game or our entire investment in the game. Our failure to manage our growth and expansion effectively could adversely affect our business. Our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning and management process. Our transition into the digital business opens us to new opportunities in the world-wide market. We intend to increase the scope of our digital operations. This growth will place a significant strain on management systems and resources. If we are unable to effectively manage our growth or scale our development, our business could be adversely affected. 17 Our financial results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter and are difficult to predict. Our revenues and operating results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter because of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. In addition, we may not be able to predict our future revenues or results of operations. We base our current and future expense levels on our internal operating plans and sales forecasts, and our operating costs are to a large extent fixed. As a result, we may not be able to reduce our costs sufficiently to compensate for an unexpected shortfall in revenues, and even a small shortfall in revenues could disproportionately and adversely affect financial results for that quarter. Individual products and services represent meaningful portions of our revenues and net loss in any quarter. We may incur significant or unanticipated expenses when licenses are renewed. In addition to other risk factors discussed in this section, factors that may contribute to the variability of our quarterly results include: • the number of new products and services released by us and our competitors; • the amount we estimate to reserve against returns and allowances; • the timing of release of new products and services by us and our competitors, particularly those that may represent a significant portion of revenues in a period; • the popularity of new products and services, and products and services released in prior periods; • the expiration of existing content licenses; • the timing of charges related to impairments of goodwill, intangible assets, royalties and minimum guarantees; • changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; • changes in the mix of original and licensed content, which have varying gross margins; • the seasonality of our industry; • fluctuations in the size and rate of growth of overall consumer demand for video game products, services and related content; • strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; • our success in entering new geographic markets; • foreign exchange fluctuations; • accounting rules governing recognition of revenue; • the timing of compensation expense associated with equity compensation grants; and • decisions by us to incur additional expenses, such as increases in marketing or research and development. As a result of these and other factors, our operating results may not meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts who choose to follow our company. Failure to meet market expectations would likely result in decreases in the trading price of our common stock. 18 The acquisition of other companies, businesses or technologies could result in operating difficulties, dilution or other harmful consequences. We have made acquisitions in the past and, although we are not currently pursuing any significant acquisition, we may in the future pursue additional acquisitions, any of which could be material to our business, operating results and financial condition. Certain of our acquired companies were subsequently disposed. These acquisitions resulted in operating losses and losses from dispositions. Future acquisitions could divert management’s time and focus from operating our business. In addition, integrating an acquired company, business or technology is risky and may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. We may also raise additional capital for the acquisition of, or investment in, companies, technologies, products or assets that complement our business. Future acquisitions or dispositions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, including our common stock, or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, or acquired in-process research and development expenses, any of which could harm our financial condition and operating results. Future acquisitions may also require us to obtain additional financing, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Acquisitions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: • diversion of management’s attention from running the existing business; • increased expenses, including travel, legal, administrative and compensation expenses resulting from newly hired employees; • increased costs to integrate personnel, customer base and business practices of the acquired company; • adverse effects on reported operating results due to possible write-downs of goodwill associated with acquisitions; • potential disputes with sellers of acquired businesses, technologies, services or products; and • dilution to stockholders if we issue securities in any acquisition. Any acquired business, technology, product or service could significantly under-perform relative to our expectations, and we may not achieve the benefits we expect from acquisitions. In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of companies we acquire may be allocated to acquired goodwill and other intangible assets, which must be assessed for impairment at least annually. In the future, if our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our earnings based on this impairment assessment process, which could harm our operating results. For all these reasons, our pursuit of an acquisition and investment strategy or any individual acquisition or investment, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain our key employees. We may experience increased costs to continue to attract and retain senior management and highly qualified software developers. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the performance of senior management and on our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified software developers. We believe that as a result of consolidation in our industry, there are now fewer highly skilled independent developers available to us. Competition for these developers is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining them on terms acceptable to us or at all. An increase in the costs necessary to attract and retain skilled developers, and any delays resulting from the inability to attract necessary developers or departures, may adversely affect our revenues, margins and results of operations. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. All of our executive officers and key employees are under short-term employment agreements, which mean that their future employment with the Company is uncertain. All of our executive officers and key employees are bound by a contractual non-competition agreement; however, it is uncertain whether such agreements are enforceable and, if so, to what extent, which could make us vulnerable to recruitment efforts by our competitors. 19 Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain highly-skilled technical, managerial, finance, marketing and creative personnel. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous technology, marketing and mobile entertainment companies. We may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals who are capable of meeting our growing creative, operational and managerial requirements, or may be required to pay increased compensation in order to do so. Volatility or lack of performance in our stock price may also affect our ability to attract and retain our key employees. If we are unable to attract and retain the qualified personnel we need to succeed, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. The loss of any of our key customers could adversely affect our sales. Our retail sales to COKeM, Jack of All Games, and Walmart accounted for approximately 40%, 10% and 9%, respectively, of our gross revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010. Our transition to digital will eventually decrease our dependence on distributors and retailers for our boxed products. During this transition, we will continue to broaden our customer base to reduce the reliance on any one particular customer, but we anticipate that a small number of customers may still account for a large concentration of our retail boxed sales given the consolidation of the retail industry. We do not have written agreements in place with several of our major customers. Consequently, our relationship with these retailers could change at any time. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if: • we lose any of our significant customers; • any of these customers purchase fewer of our offerings; • any of these customers encounter financial difficulties, resulting in the inability to pay vendors, store closures or liquidation; • less favorable foreign intellectual property laws making it more difficult to protect our properties from appropriation by competitors; • we incur difficulties with distributors; • we incur difficulties collecting our accounts receivable; • we continue to rely on limited business relationships. Our failure to manage or address any of these could adversely affect our business. If our products contain errors, our reputation, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. As video games incorporate new technologies, adapt to new hardware platforms and become more complex, the risk of undetected errors in products when first introduced increases. If, despite our testing procedures, errors are found in new products after shipments have been made, we could experience a loss of revenues, delay in timely market acceptance of our products and damage to our reputation, any of which may negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property, our revenues may be adversely affected. The intellectual property embodied in our video games is susceptible to infringement, particularly through unauthorized copying of the games, or piracy. The increasing availability of high bandwidth Internet service has made, and will likely continue to make, piracy of video games more common. Infringement of our intellectual property may adversely affect our revenues through lost sales or licensing fees, particularly where consumers obtain pirated video game copies rather than copies sold by us, or damage to our reputation where consumers are wrongly led by infringers to believe that low-quality infringing material originated from us. Preventing and curbing infringement through enforcement of our intellectual property rights may be difficult, costly and time consuming, and thereby ultimately not cost-effective, especially where the infringement takes place in foreign countries where the laws are less favorable to rights holders or not sufficiently developed to afford the level of protection we desire. 20 If we infringe on the intellectual property of others, our costs may rise and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Although we take precautions to avoid infringing the intellectual property of others, it is possible that we or our third-party developers have done so or may do so in the future. The number and complexity of elements in our products that result from the advances in the capabilities of video game platforms increases the probability that infringement may occur. Claims of infringement, regardless of merit, could be time consuming, costly and difficult to defend. Moreover, as a result of disputes over intellectual property, we may be required to discontinue the distribution of one or more of our products, or obtain a license for the use of or redesign those products, any of which could result in substantial costs and material delays and materially adversely affect our results of operations. Indemnity provisions in various agreements potentially expose us to substantial liability for intellectual property infringement, damages caused by malicious software and other losses. In the ordinary course of our business, most of our agreements with carriers and other distributors include indemnification provisions. In these provisions, we agree to indemnify them for losses suffered or incurred in connection with our products and services, including as a result of intellectual property infringement and damages caused by viruses, worms and other malicious software. The term of these indemnity provisions is generally perpetual after execution of the corresponding license agreement, and the maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification provisions is generally unlimited. Large future indemnity payments could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be unable to develop and introduce in a timely way new products or services, which could harm our brand. The planned timing and introduction of new products and services are subject to risks and uncertainties. Unexpected technical, operational, deployment, distribution or other problems could delay or prevent the introduction of new products and services, which could result in a loss of, or delay in, revenues or damage to our reputation and brand. Our attractiveness to branded content licensors might also be reduced. In addition, new products and services may not achieve sufficient market acceptance to offset the costs of development, particularly when the introduction of a product or service is substantially later than a planned “day-and-date” launch, which could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business is subject to risks generally associated with the entertainment industry, and we may fail to properly assess consumer tastes and preferences, causing product sales to fall short of expectations. Our business is subject to all of the risks generally associated with the entertainment industry and, accordingly, our future operating results will depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the popularity, price and timing of new hardware platforms being released; economic, political and military conditions that adversely affect discretionary consumer spending; changes in consumer demographics; the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment; and critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, which may change rapidly and cannot be predicted. A decline in the popularity of certain game genres or particular platforms could cause sales of our titles to decline dramatically. The period of time necessary to develop new game titles, obtain approvals of platform licensors and produce finished products is unpredictable. During this period, consumer appeal for a particular title may decrease, causing product sales to fall short of expectations. 21 We have developed and may expand international operations, which may subject us to economic, political, regulatory and other risks. We continue to seek the most cost-effective method to distribute our products internationally. There are many risks involved with international operations, including: • difficulty in maintaining or finding a suitable distribution partner; • social, economic and political instability; • compliance with multiple and conflicting foreign and domestic laws and regulations; • changes in foreign and domestic legal and regulatory requirements or policies resulting in burdensome government controls, tariffs, restrictions, embargoes or export license requirements; • currency fluctuations; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • less favorable foreign intellectual property laws making it more difficult to protect our properties from appropriation by competitors; • potentially adverse tax treatment; • higher costs associated with doing business internationally; • challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; • difficulties with distributors; • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local businesses in some countries; • foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating income earned in countries outside the United States; • price controls; • the servicing of regions by many different carriers; • imposition of public sector controls; • restrictions on the export or import of technology; • greater fluctuations in sales to end users and through carriers in developing countries, including longer payment cycles and greater difficulties collecting our accounts receivable; and • relying on limited business relationships. Our failure to manage or address any of these could adversely affect our business. In addition, developing user interfaces that are compatible with other languages or cultures can be expensive. As a result, our ongoing international expansion efforts may be more costly than we expect. Further, expansion into developing countries subjects us to the effects of regional instability, civil unrest and hostilities, and could adversely affect us by disrupting communications and making travel more difficult. These risks could harm our international expansion efforts, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business is “hit” driven. If we do not deliver “hit” titles, or if consumers prefer competing products, our sales could suffer. While many new products are regularly introduced, only a relatively small number of “hit” titles account for a significant portion of net revenue. Competitors may develop titles that imitate or compete with our “hit” titles, and take sales away from us or reduce our ability to command premium prices for those titles. Hit products published by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate which could cause our product sales to fall below our expectations. If our competitors develop more successful products or offer competitive products at lower price, or if we do not continue to develop consistently high-quality and well received products, our revenue, margins, and profitability will decline. 22 Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. We experience fluctuations in quarterly and annual operating results as a result of: the timing of the introduction of new titles; variations in sales of titles developed for particular platforms; market acceptance of our titles; development and promotional expenses relating to the introduction of new titles, sequels or enhancements of existing titles; projected and actual changes in platforms; the timing and success of title introductions by our competitors; product returns; changes in pricing policies by us and our competitors; the size and timing of acquisitions; the timing of orders from major customers; order cancellations; and delays in product shipment. Sales of our products are also seasonal, with peak shipments typically occurring in the fourth calendar quarter as a result of increased demand for titles during the holiday season. Quarterly and annual comparisons of operating results are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock is highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations, and you may be unable to resell your shares at or above the current price. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors that are beyond our control, including announcements of new products or services by our competitors. In addition, the market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including: • quarterly variations in our revenues and operating expenses; • developments in the financial markets, and the worldwide or regional economies; • announcements of innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; • fluctuations in merchant credit card interest rates; • significant sales of our common stock or other securities in the open market; and • changes in accounting principles. In the past, stockholders have often instituted securities class action litigation after periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. If a stockholder were to file any such class action suit against us, we would incur substantial legal fees and our management’s attention and resources would be diverted from operating our business to respond to the litigation, which could harm our business. The sale of securities by us in any equity or debt financing could result in dilution to our existing stockholders and have a material adverse effect on our earnings and the market price of our shares of common stock. Any sale of common stock by us in future private placement or public offerings or similar transactions could result in dilution to the existing stockholders as a direct result of our issuance of additional shares of our capital stock. In addition, our business strategy may include expansion through internal growth by acquiring complementary businesses, acquiring or licensing additional brands, or establishing strategic relationships with targeted customers and suppliers. In order to do so, or to finance the cost of our other activities, we may issue additional equity securities that could dilute our stockholders’ stock ownership. We may also assume additional debt and incur impairment losses related to goodwill and other tangible assets, and this could negatively impact our earnings and results of operations. In addition, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause the market price of our shares of common stock to decline significantly. 23 If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade their recommendations regarding our common stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock may be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If any of the analysts who cover us downgrade our common stock, our common stock price would likely decline. If analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our common stock price or trading volume to decline. The liquidity of our common stock could be affected by our ability to meet the continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market. Our shares of common stock are quoted on the NASDAQ Capital Market. If we are unable to meet the continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market, holders of our common stock would find it more difficult to dispose of our common stock, and the market value of our common stock would likely decline. If The NASDAQ Capital Market delists our common stock from trading, any market that develops in shares of our common stock may be subject to the penny stock restrictions, which will reduce the liquidity of our securities and make trading difficult or impossible. SEC Rule 15g-9 establishes the definition of a “penny stock,” for purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to a limited number of exceptions. In the event the price of our shares of common stock falls below $5.00 per share, our shares will be considered to be penny stocks. This classification severely and adversely affects the market liquidity for our common stock. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the penny stock rules require that a broker-dealer approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks and the broker-dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker-dealer must obtain financial information and investment experience and objectives of the person and make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and that person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker-dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form, sets forth: • the basis on which the broker-dealer made the suitability determination, and • that the broker-dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. 24 Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stock in both public offerings and in secondary trading and commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Because of these regulations, broker-dealers may not wish to engage in the above-referenced necessary paperwork and disclosures and/or may encounter difficulties in their attempt to sell securities subject to the penny stock rules. If The NASDAQ Capital Market delists our securities, the holders of our securities may have difficulty selling their shares in the market due to the reduced level of trading activity in the market. These additional sales practice and disclosure requirements could impede the sale of our securities. In addition, the liquidity for our securities may decrease, with a corresponding decrease in the price of our securities. Furthermore, if The NASDAQ Capital Market delists our securities, our shares will likely be subject to the penny stock rules for the foreseeable future and our stockholders will, in all likelihood, find it difficult to sell their securities. Furthermore, the “penny stock” rules could also hamper our ability to raise funds in the future. If we continue to fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we might not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud; in that case, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could negatively impact the price of our stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. In addition, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires us to evaluate and report on our internal control over financial reporting for all our current operations. Our management has determined that we have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting related to: (i) not having a sufficient number of personnel with the appropriate level of experience and technical expertise to appropriately resolve non-routine and complex accounting matters or to evaluate the impact of new and existing accounting pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements while completing the financial statement close process, (ii) an insufficient level of monitoring and oversight, (iii) ineffective controls over accounting for revenue recognition and allowances for returns and other items, (iv) insufficient analysis of certain key account balances at interim reporting cycles and (v) timely recognition of changes within the Company’s business plan and the related impact on the financial statements. Until these material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting are remediated, there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement to our annual or interim consolidated financial statements could occur and not be prevented or detected by our internal controls in a timely manner. We are committed to appropriately addressing this matter and we have engaged additional qualified personnel to assist in these areas. We will continue to reassess our accounting and finance staffing levels to ensure that we have the appropriate accounting resources to handle the existing workload. Even if we conclude that our internal control over financial reporting provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect fraud or misstatements. Failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we discover a material weakness or a significant deficiency in our internal control, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. We do not anticipate paying dividends. We have never paid cash or other dividends on our common stock. Payment of dividends on our common stock is within the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our earnings, our capital requirements and financial condition, and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Our officers, directors and principal stockholders can exert significant influence over us and may make decisions that may not be in the best interests of all stockholders. Our officers, directors and principal stockholders (greater than 5% stockholders) collectively beneficially own approximately 79.7% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, this group will be able to affect the outcome of, or exert significant influence over, all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any change in control. In particular, this concentration of ownership of our common stock is likely to have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us or otherwise discouraging or preventing a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us. This, in turn, could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. It could also prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market prices for their shares of common stock. Moreover, the interests of this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and, accordingly, this group could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements that we would not otherwise consider. 25 The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management’s attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified members for our Board of Directors. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The requirements of these rules and regulations increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, may make some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly and may also place undue strain on our personnel, systems and resources. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we will need to expend significant resources and provide significant management oversight. We have a substantial effort ahead of us to implement appropriate processes, document our system of internal control over relevant processes, assess their design, remediate any deficiencies identified and test their operation. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. These efforts will also involve substantial accounting-related costs. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None 