Item 1A. Risk Factors This section describes circumstances or events that could have a negative effect on our financial results or operations or that could change, for the worse, existing trends in some or all of our businesses. The occurrence of one or more of the circumstances or events described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or on the trading prices of the Class A Common Stock that we have issued or securities we may issue in the future. The risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect our business and operations. Risks Related to Our Operations and Financial Performance If we are unable to provide content and services that attract and retain users to The WebMD Health Network on a consistent basis, our advertising and sponsorship revenue could be reduced Users of The WebMD Health Network have numerous other online and offline sources of healthcare information services. Our ability to compete for user traffic on our public portals depends upon our ability to make available a variety of health and medical content, decision-support applications and other services that meet the needs of a variety of types of users, including consumers, physicians and other healthcare professionals, with a variety of reasons for seeking information. Our ability to do so depends, in turn, on: • our ability to hire and retain qualified authors, journalists and independent writers; • our ability to license quality content from third parties; and • our ability to monitor and respond to increases and decreases in user interest in specific topics. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to develop or acquire needed content, applications and tools at a reasonable cost. In addition, since consumer users of our public portals may be attracted to The WebMD Health Network as a result of a specific condition or for a specific purpose, it is difficult for us to predict the rate at which they will return to the public portals. Because we generate revenue by, among other things, selling sponsorships of specific pages, sections or events on The WebMD Health Network, a decline in user traffic levels or a reduction in the number of pages viewed by users could cause our revenue to decrease and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Developing and implementing new and updated applications, features and services for our public and private portals may be more difficult than expected, may take longer and cost more than expected and may not result in sufficient increases in revenue to justify the costs Attracting and retaining users of our public portals and clients for our private portals requires us to continue to improve the technology underlying those portals and to continue to develop new and updated applications, features and services for those portals. If we are unable to do so on a timely basis or if we are unable to implement new applications, features and services without disruption to our existing ones, we may lose potential users and clients. We rely on a combination of internal development, strategic relationships, licensing and acquisitions to develop our portals and related applications, features and services. Our development and/or implementation of new technologies, applications, features and services may cost more than expected, may take longer than originally expected, may require more testing than originally anticipated and may require the acquisition of additional personnel and other resources. There can be no assurance that the revenue opportunities from any new or updated technologies, applications, features or services will justify the amounts spent. We face significant competition for our products and services The markets in which we operate are intensely competitive, continually evolving and, in some cases, subject to rapid change. 31 Table of Contents • Our public portals face competition from numerous other companies, both in attracting users and in generating revenue from advertisers and sponsors. We compete for users with online services and Web sites that provide health-related information, including both commercial sites and not-for-profit sites. We compete for advertisers and sponsors with: health-related Web sites; general purpose consumer Web sites that offer specialized health sub-channels; other high-traffic Web sites that include both healthcare-related and non-healthcare-related content and services; search engines that provide specialized health search; and advertising networks that aggregate traffic from multiple sites. • Our private portals compete with: providers of healthcare decision-support tools and online health management applications; wellness and disease management vendors; and health information services and health management offerings of healthcare benefits companies and their affiliates. • Our Publishing and Other Services segment’s products and services compete with numerous other offline publications, some of which have better access to traditional distribution channels than we have, and also compete with online information sources. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and other resources than we do. These organizations may be better known than we are and have more customers or users than we do. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against these organizations or any alliances they have formed or may form. Since there are no substantial barriers to entry into the markets in which our public portals participate, we expect that competitors will continue to enter these markets. Failure to maintain and enhance the “WebMD” brand could have a material adverse effect on our business We believe that the “WebMD” brand identity that we have developed has contributed to the success of our business and has helped us achieve recognition as a trusted source of health and wellness information. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing that brand is important to expanding the user base for our public portals, to our relationships with sponsors and advertisers and to our ability to gain additional employer and healthcare payer clients for our private portals. We have expended considerable resources on establishing and enhancing the “WebMD” brand and our other brands, and we have developed policies and procedures designed to preserve and enhance our brands, including editorial procedures designed to provide quality control of the information we publish. We expect to continue to devote resources and efforts to maintain and enhance our brand. However, we may not be able to successfully maintain or enhance awareness of our brands, and events outside of our control may have a negative effect on our brands. If we are unable to maintain or enhance awareness of our brand, and do so in a cost-effective manner, our business could be adversely affected. Our online businesses have a limited operating history Our online businesses have a limited operating history and participate in relatively new and rapidly changing markets. These businesses have undergone significant changes during their short history as a result of changes in the types of services provided, technological changes and changes in market conditions and are expected to continue to change for similar reasons. Many companies with business plans based on providing healthcare information and related services through the Internet have failed to be profitable and some have filed for bankruptcy and/or ceased operations. Even if demand from users exists, we cannot assure you that our businesses will continue to be profitable. Our failure to attract and retain qualified executives and employees may have a material adverse effect on our business Our business depends largely on the skills, experience and performance of key members of our management team. We also depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified writers and editors, software developers and other technical personnel and sales and marketing personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the healthcare information services and Internet industries is intense. We cannot assure 32 Table of Contents you that we will be able to hire or retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel to meet our requirements, or that we will be able to do so at salary and benefit costs that are acceptable to us. Failure to do so may have an adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to provide healthcare content for our offline publications that attracts and retains users, our revenue will be reduced Interest in our offline publications, such as The Little Blue Book, is based upon our ability to make available up-to-date health content that meets the needs of our physician users. Although we have been able to continue to update and maintain the physician practice information that we publish in The Little Blue Book, if we are unable to continue to do so for any reason, the value of The Little Blue Book would diminish and interest in this publication and advertising in this publication would be adversely affected. WebMD the Magazine was launched in April 2005 and, as a result, has a very short operating history. We cannot assure you that WebMD the Magazine will be able to attract and retain the advertisers needed to make this publication successful in the future. The timing of our advertising and sponsorship revenue may vary significantly from quarter to quarter Our advertising and sponsorship revenue, which accounted for approximately 73% of our total Online Services segment revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007, may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, not all of which are in our control, and any of which may be difficult to forecast accurately. The majority of our advertising and sponsorship contracts are for terms of approximately four to twelve months. We have relatively few longer term advertising and sponsorship contracts. We cannot assure you that our current customers for these services will continue to use our services beyond the terms of their existing contracts or that they will enter into any additional contracts. In addition, the time between the date of initial contact with a potential advertiser or sponsor regarding a specific program and the execution of a contract with the advertiser or sponsor for that program may be lengthy, especially for larger contracts, and may be subject to delays over which we have little or no control, including as a result of budgetary constraints of the advertiser or sponsor or their need for internal approvals. Other factors that could affect the timing of our revenue from advertisers and sponsors include: • the timing of FDA approval for new products or for new approved uses for existing products; • the timing of FDA approval of generic products that compete with existing brand name products; • the timing of withdrawals of products from the market; • seasonal factors relating to the prevalence of specific health conditions and other seasonal factors that may affect the timing of promotional campaigns for specific products; and • the scheduling of conferences for physicians and other healthcare professionals. Lengthy sales and implementation cycles for our private online portals make it difficult to forecast our revenues from these applications and may have an adverse impact on our business The period from our initial contact with a potential client for a private online portal and the first purchase of our solution by the client is difficult to predict. In the past, this period has generally ranged from six to twelve months, but in some cases has been longer. These sales may be subject to delays due to a client’s internal procedures for approving large expenditures and other factors beyond our control. The time it takes to implement a private online portal is also difficult to predict and has lasted as long as six months from contract execution to the commencement of live operation. Implementation may be subject to delays based on the availability of the internal resources of the client that are needed and other factors outside of our control. As a result, we have limited ability to forecast the timing of revenue from new clients. This, in turn, makes it more difficult to predict our financial performance from quarter to quarter. 33 Table of Contents During the sales cycle and the implementation period, we may expend substantial time, effort and money preparing contract proposals, negotiating contracts and implementing the private online portal without receiving any related revenue. In addition, many of the expenses related to providing private online portals are relatively fixed in the short term, including personnel costs and technology and infrastructure costs. Even if our private portal revenue is lower than expected, we may not be able to reduce related short-term spending in response. Any shortfall in such revenue would have a direct impact on our results of operations. Our ability to provide comparative information on hospital cost and quality depends on our ability to obtain the required data on a timely basis and, if we are unable to do so, our private portal services would be less attractive to clients We provide, in connection with our private portal services, comparative information about hospital cost and quality. Our ability to provide this information depends on our ability to obtain comprehensive, reliable data. We currently obtain this data from a number of public and private sources, including the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), 24 individual states and the Leapfrog Group. We cannot provide assurance that we would be able to find alternative sources for this data on acceptable terms and conditions. Accordingly, our business could be negatively impacted if CMS or our other data sources cease to make such information available or impose terms and conditions for making it available that are not consistent with our planned usage. In addition, the quality of the comparative information services we provide depends on the reliability of the information that we are able to obtain. If the information we use to provide these services contains errors or is otherwise unreliable, we could lose clients and our reputation could be damaged. Our ability to renew existing licenses with employers and health plans will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to increase usage of our private portal services by their employees and plan members In a healthcare market where a greater share of the responsibility for healthcare costs and decision-making has been increasingly shifting to consumers, use of information technology (including personal health records) to assist consumers in making informed decisions about healthcare has also increased. We believe that through our WebMD Health and Benefits Manager tools, including our personal health record application, we are well positioned to play a role in this consumer-directed healthcare environment, and these services will be a significant driver for the growth of our private portals during the next several years. However, our growth strategy depends, in part, on increasing usage of our private portal services by our employer and health plan clients’ employees and members, respectively. Increasing usage of our services requires us to continue to deliver and improve the underlying technology and develop new and updated applications, features and services. In addition, we face competition in the area of healthcare decision-support tools and online health management applications and health information services. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and other resources than we do, and may be better known than we are. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to meet our development and implementation goals, nor that we will be able to compete successfully against other vendors offering competitive services and, as a result, may experience static or diminished usage for our private portal services and possible non-renewals of our license agreements. Expansion to markets outside the United States will subject us to additional risks One element of our growth strategy is to seek to expand our online services to markets outside the United States. Generally, we expect that we would accomplish this through partnerships or joint ventures with other companies having expertise in the specific country or region. However, our participation in international markets will still be subject to certain risks beyond those applicable to our operations in the United States, such as: • difficulties in staffing and managing operations outside of the United States; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • burdens of complying with a wide variety of legal, regulatory and market requirements; 34 Table of Contents • variability of economic and political conditions; • tariffs or other trade barriers; • costs of providing and marketing products and services in different markets; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on repatriation of earnings; and • difficulties in protecting intellectual property. Risks Related to Our Relationships with Clients Developments in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business Most of our revenue is derived from the healthcare industry and could be affected by changes affecting healthcare spending. We are particularly dependent on pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies for our advertising and sponsorship revenue. General reductions in expenditures by healthcare industry participants could result from, among other things: • government regulation or private initiatives that affect the manner in which healthcare providers interact with patients, payers or other healthcare industry participants, including changes in pricing or means of delivery of healthcare products and services; • consolidation of healthcare industry participants; • reductions in governmental funding for healthcare; and • adverse changes in business or economic conditions affecting healthcare payers or providers, pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical device companies or other healthcare industry participants. Even if general expenditures by industry participants remain the same or increase, developments in the healthcare industry may result in reduced spending in some or all of the specific market segments that we serve or are planning to serve. For example, use of our products and services could be affected by: • changes in the design of health insurance plans; • a decrease in the number of new drugs or medical devices coming to market; and • decreases in marketing expenditures by pharmaceutical or medical device companies, including as a result of governmental regulation or private initiatives that discourage or prohibit advertising or sponsorship activities by pharmaceutical or medical device companies. In addition, our customers’ expectations regarding pending or potential industry developments may also affect their budgeting processes and spending plans with respect to products and services of the types we provide. The healthcare industry has changed significantly in recent years and we expect that significant changes will continue to occur. However, the timing and impact of developments in the healthcare industry are difficult to predict. We cannot assure you that the markets for our products and services will continue to exist at current levels or that we will have adequate technical, financial and marketing resources to react to changes in those markets. We may be unsuccessful in our efforts to increase advertising and sponsorship revenue from consumer products companies Most of our advertising and sponsorship revenue has, in the past, come from pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies. We have been focusing on increasing sponsorship revenue from consumer products companies that are interested in communicating health-related or safety-related information about their products to our audience. However, while a number of consumer products companies have indicated an intent to increase the portion of their promotional spending used on the Internet, we cannot assure 35 Table of Contents you that these advertisers and sponsors will find our consumer Web sites to be as effective as other Web sites or traditional media for promoting their products and services. If we encounter difficulties in competing with the other alternatives available to consumer products companies, this portion of our business may develop more slowly than we expect or may fail to develop. We could be subject to breach of warranty or other claims by clients of our online portals if the software and systems we use to provide them contain errors or experience failures Errors in the software and systems we use could cause serious problems for clients of our online portals. We may fail to meet contractual performance standards or client expectations. Clients of our online portals may seek compensation from us or may seek to terminate their agreements with us, withhold payments due to us, seek refunds from us of part or all of the fees charged under those agreements or initiate litigation or other dispute resolution procedures. In addition, we could face breach of warranty or other claims by clients or additional development costs. Our software and systems are inherently complex and, despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that they will perform as planned. We attempt to limit, by contract, our liability to our clients for damages arising from our negligence, errors or mistakes. However, contractual limitations on liability may not be enforceable in certain circumstances or may otherwise not provide sufficient protection to us from liability for damages. We maintain liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors and omissions. However, it is possible that claims could exceed the amount of our applicable insurance coverage, if any, or that this coverage may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, investigating and defending against them would be expensive and time consuming and could divert management’s attention away from our operations. In addition, negative publicity caused by these events may delay or hinder market acceptance of our services, including unrelated services. Risks Related to Use of the Internet and to Our Technological Infrastructure Any service interruption or failure in the systems that we use to provide online services could harm our business Our online services are designed to operate 24 hours a day, seven days a week, without interruption. However, we have experienced and expect that we will in the future experience interruptions and delays in services and availability from time to time. We rely on internal systems as well as third-party vendors, including data center providers and bandwidth providers, to provide our online services. We may not maintain redundant systems or facilities for some of these services. In the event of a catastrophic event with respect to one or more of these systems or facilities, we may experience an extended period of system unavailability, which could negatively impact our relationship with users. In addition, system failures may result in loss of data, including user registration data, content, and other data critical to the operation of our online services, which could cause significant harm to our business and our reputation. To operate without interruption or loss of data, both we and our service providers must guard against: • damage from fire, power loss and other natural disasters; • communications failures; • software and hardware errors, failures and crashes; • security breaches, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems; and • other potential service interruptions. Any disruption in the network access or co-location services provided by third-party providers to us or any failure by these third-party providers or our own systems to handle current or higher volume of use could significantly harm our business. We exercise little control over these third-party vendors, which increases our vulnerability to problems with services they provide. 36 Table of Contents Any errors, failures, interruptions or delays experienced in connection with these third-party technologies and information services or our own systems could negatively impact our relationships with users and adversely affect our brand and our business and could expose us to liabilities to third parties. Although we maintain insurance for our business, the coverage under our policies may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at an acceptable cost. Implementation of additions to or changes in hardware and software platforms used to deliver our online services may result in performance problems and may not provide the additional functionality that was expected From time to time, we implement additions to or changes in the hardware and software platforms we use for providing our online services. During and after the implementation of additions or changes, a platform may not perform as expected, which could result in interruptions in operations, an increase in response time or an inability to track performance metrics. In addition, in connection with integrating acquired businesses, we may move their operations to our hardware and software platforms or make other changes, any of which could result in interruptions in those operations. Any significant interruption in our ability to operate any of our online services could have an adverse effect on our relationships with users and clients and, as a result, on our financial results. We rely on a combination of purchasing, licensing, internal development, and acquisitions to develop our hardware and software platforms. Our implementation of additions to or changes in these platforms may cost more than originally expected, may take longer than originally expected, and may require more testing than originally anticipated. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that additions to or changes in these platforms will provide the additional functionality and other benefits that were originally expected. If the systems we use to provide online portals experience security breaches or are otherwise perceived to be insecure, our business could suffer We retain and transmit confidential information, including personal health records, in the processing centers and other facilities we use to provide online services. It is critical that these facilities and infrastructure remain secure and be perceived by the marketplace as secure. A security breach could damage our reputation or result in liability. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches and hackers or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. Despite the implementation of security measures, this infrastructure or other systems that we interface with, including the Internet and related systems, may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, hackers, improper employee or contractor access, computer viruses, programming errors, denial-of-service attacks or other attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. Any compromise of our security, whether as a result of our own systems or the systems that they interface with, could reduce demand for our services and could subject us to legal claims from our clients and users, including for breach of contract or breach of warranty. Our online services are dependent on the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure Our ability to deliver our online services is dependent on the development and maintenance of the infrastructure of the Internet by third parties. The Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damages to portions of its infrastructure, and it could face outages and delays in the future. The Internet has also experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, significant growth in the number of users and the amount of traffic. If the Internet continues to experience increased usage, the Internet infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it. In addition, the reliability and performance of the Internet may be harmed by increased usage or by denial-of-service attacks. Any resulting interruptions in our services or increases in response time could, if significant, result in a loss of potential or existing users of and advertisers and sponsors on our Web sites and, if sustained or repeated, could reduce the attractiveness of our services. Customers who utilize our online services depend on Internet service providers and other Web site operators for access to our Web sites. All of these providers have experienced significant outages in the past 37 Table of Contents and could experience outages, delays and other difficulties in the future due to system failures unrelated to our systems. Any such outages or other failures on their part could reduce traffic to our Web sites. Risks Related to the Legal and Regulatory Environment in Which We Operate Government regulation of healthcare creates risks and challenges with respect to our compliance efforts and our business strategies The healthcare industry is highly regulated and is subject to changing political, legislative, regulatory and other influences. Existing and new laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry could create unexpected liabilities for us, could cause us to incur additional costs and could restrict our operations. Many healthcare laws are complex, and their application to specific products and services may not be clear. In particular, many existing healthcare laws and regulations, when enacted, did not anticipate the healthcare information services that we provide. However, these laws and regulations may nonetheless be applied to our products and services. Our failure to accurately anticipate the application of these laws and regulations, or other failure to comply, could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity and negatively affect our businesses. Some of the risks we face from healthcare regulation are as follows: • Regulation of Drug and Medical Device Advertising and Promotion. The WebMD Health Network provides services involving advertising and promotion of prescription and over-the-counter drugs and medical devices. If the FDA or the FTC finds that any information on The WebMD Health Network or in WebMD the Magazine violates FDA or FTC regulations, they may take regulatory or judicial action against us and/or the advertiser or sponsor of that information. State attorneys general may also take similar action based on their state’s consumer protection statutes. Any increase or change in regulation of drug or medical device advertising and promotion could make it more difficult for us to contract for sponsorships and advertising. Members of Congress, physician groups and others have criticized the FDA’s current policies, and have called for restrictions on advertising of prescription drugs to consumers and increased FDA enforcement. We cannot predict what actions the FDA or industry participants may take in response to these criticisms. It is also possible that new laws would be enacted that impose restrictions on such advertising. Our advertising and sponsorship revenue could be materially reduced by additional restrictions on the advertising of prescription drugs and medical devices to consumers, whether imposed by law or regulation or required under policies adopted by industry members. • Anti-kickback Laws. There are federal and state laws that govern patient referrals, physician financial relationships and inducements to healthcare providers and patients. The federal healthcare programs’ anti-kickback law prohibits any person or entity from offering, paying, soliciting or receiving anything of value, directly or indirectly, for the referral of patients covered by Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs or the leasing, purchasing, ordering or arranging for or recommending the lease, purchase or order of any item, good, facility or service covered by these programs. Many states also have similar anti-kickback laws that are not necessarily limited to items or services for which payment is made by a federal healthcare program. These laws are applicable to manufacturers and distributors and, therefore, may restrict how we and some of our customers market products to healthcare providers, including e-details. Any determination by a state or federal regulatory agency that any of our practices violate any of these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties and require us to change or terminate some portions of our business and could have an adverse effect on our business. Even an unsuccessful challenge by regulatory authorities of our practices could result in adverse publicity and be costly for us to respond to. • Medical Professional Regulation. The practice of most healthcare professions requires licensing under applicable state law. In addition, the laws in some states prohibit business entities from practicing medicine. If a state determines that some portion of our business violates these laws, it may seek to have us discontinue those portions or subject us to penalties or licensure requirements. Any determination that we are a healthcare provider and have acted improperly as a healthcare provider may result in liability to us. 38 Table of Contents Government regulation of the Internet could adversely affect our business The Internet and its associated technologies are subject to government regulation. Our failure, or the failure of our business partners or third-party service providers, to accurately anticipate the application of laws and regulations affecting our products and services and the manner in which we deliver them, or any other failure to comply with such laws and regulations, could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity and negatively affect our business. In addition, new laws and regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may be adopted with respect to the Internet or other online services covering user privacy, patient confidentiality, consumer protection and other issues, including pricing, content, copyrights and patents, distribution and characteristics and quality of products and services. We cannot predict whether these laws or regulations will change or how such changes will affect our business. We face potential liability related to the privacy and security of personal information we collect from or on behalf of users of our services Privacy of personal health information, particularly personal health information stored or transmitted electronically, is a major issue in the United States. The Privacy Standards under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (or HIPAA) establish a set of basic national privacy standards for the protection of individually identifiable health information by health plans, healthcare clearinghouses and healthcare providers (referred to as covered entities) and their business associates. Only covered entities are directly subject to potential civil and criminal liability under the Privacy Standards. Accordingly, the Privacy Standards do not apply directly to us. However, portions of our business, such as those managing employee or plan member health information for employers or health plans, are or may be business associates of covered entities and are bound by certain contracts and agreements to use and disclose protected health information in a manner consistent with the Privacy Standards. Depending on the facts and circumstances, we could potentially be subject to criminal liability for aiding and abetting or conspiring with a covered entity to violate the Privacy Standards. We cannot assure you that we will adequately address the risks created by the Privacy Standards. In addition, we are unable to predict what changes to the Privacy Standards might be made in the future or how those changes could affect our business. Any new legislation or regulation in the area of privacy of personal information, including personal health information, could also affect the way we operate our business and could harm our business. In addition, Internet user privacy and the use of consumer information to track online activities are major issues both in the United States and abroad. For example, in December 2007, the FTC published for comment proposed principles to govern tracking of consumers’ activities online in order to deliver advertising targeted to the interests of individual consumers. We have privacy policies posted on our Web sites that we believe comply with applicable laws requiring notice to users about our information collection, use and disclosure practices. However, whether and how existing privacy and consumer protection laws in various jurisdictions apply to the Internet is still uncertain. We also notify users about our information collection, use and disclosure practices relating to data we receive through offline means such as paper health risk assessments. We cannot assure you that the privacy policies and other statements we provide to users of our products and services, or our practices will be found sufficient to protect us from liability or adverse publicity in this area. A determination by a state or federal agency or court that any of our practices do not meet applicable standards, or the implementation of new standards or requirements, could adversely affect our business. Failure to maintain our CME accreditation could adversely affect Medscape’s ability to provide online CME offerings Medscape’s CME activities are planned and implemented in accordance with the current Essential Areas and Policies of the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education, or ACCME, which oversees providers of CME credit, and other applicable accreditation standards. In 2007, ACCME revised its standards for commercial support of CME. The revised standards are intended to ensure, among other things, that CME activities of ACCME-accredited providers, such as Medscape, are independent of “commercial interests,” which are now defined as entities that produce, market, re-sell or distribute health care goods and services, excluding certain organizations. “Commercial interests,” and entities owned or controlled by “commercial 39 Table of Contents interests,” are ineligible for accreditation by the ACCME. The revised standards also provide that accredited CME providers may not place their CME content on Web sites owned or controlled by a “commercial interest.” In addition, accredited CME providers may no longer ask “commercial interests” for speaker or topic suggestions, and are also prohibited from asking “commercial interests” to review CME content prior to delivery. As a result of the revised standards, we have made certain adjustments to our corporate structure, management and operations intended to ensure that Medscape will continue to provide CME activities that are developed independently from those programs developed by its sister companies, which may not be independent of “commercial interests”. ACCME required accredited providers to implement changes relating to placing CME content on websites owned or controlled by “commercial interests” by January 1, 2008 and is requiring accredited providers to implement any corporate structural changes necessary to meet the revised standards regarding the definition of “commercial interest” by August 2009. We believe that the adjustments that we and Medscape have made to our structure and operations satisfy the revised standards. However, we cannot be certain whether ACCME will find that these adjustments are sufficient, nor can we predict whether ACCME will impose additional requirements. Medscape’s current ACCME accreditation expires at the end of July 2010. In order for Medscape to renew its accreditation, it will be required to demonstrate to the ACCME that it continues to meet ACCME requirements. If Medscape fails to maintain its status as an accredited ACCME provider (whether at the time of such renewal or at an earlier time as a result of a failure to comply with existing or additional ACCME standards), it would not be permitted to accredit ACCME activities for physicians and other healthcare professionals. Instead, it would be required to use third parties to provide such CME-related services. That, in turn, could discourage potential sponsors from engaging Medscape to develop CME or education related activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Government regulation and industry initiatives could adversely affect the volume of sponsored online CME programs implemented through our Web sites or require changes to how Medscape offers CME CME activities may be subject to government regulation by Congress, the FDA, the OIG, HHS, the federal agency responsible for interpreting certain federal laws relating to healthcare, and by state regulatory agencies. Medscape and/or the sponsors of the CME activities that Medscape accredits may be subject to enforcement actions if any of these CME activities are deemed improperly promotional, potentially leading to the termination of sponsorships. During the past several years, educational activities, including CME, directed at physicians have been subject to increased governmental scrutiny to ensure that sponsors do not influence or control the content of the activities. In response, pharmaceutical companies and medical device companies have developed and implemented internal controls and procedures that promote adherence to applicable regulations and requirements. In implementing these controls and procedures, Medscape’s various sponsors may interpret the regulations and requirements differently and may implement varying procedures or requirements. These controls and procedures: • may discourage pharmaceutical companies from providing grants for independent educational activities; • may slow their internal approval for such grants; • may reduce the volume of sponsored educational programs that Medscape produces to levels that are lower than in the past, thereby reducing revenue; and • may require Medscape to make changes to how it offers or provides educational programs, including CME. In addition, future changes to laws and regulations, or to the internal compliance programs of supporters or supporters, may further discourage, significantly limit, or prohibit supporters or potential supporters from engaging in educational activities with Medscape, or may require Medscape to make further changes in the way it offers or provides educational programs. 40 Table of Contents We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property and proprietary rights Our intellectual property and proprietary rights are important to our businesses. The steps that we take to protect our intellectual property, proprietary information and trade secrets may prove to be inadequate and, whether or not adequate, may be expensive. We rely on a combination of trade secret, patent and other intellectual property laws and confidentiality procedures and non-disclosure contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that we will be able to detect potential or actual misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property, proprietary information or trade secrets. Even if we detect misappropriation or infringement by a third party, we cannot assure you that we will be able to enforce our rights at a reasonable cost, or at all. In addition, our rights to intellectual property, proprietary information and trade secrets may not prevent independent third-party development and commercialization of competing products or services. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from providing certain services, which may harm our business We could be subject to claims that we are misappropriating or infringing intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others. These claims, even if not meritorious, could be expensive to defend and divert management’s attention from our operations. If we become liable to third parties for infringing these rights, we could be required to pay a substantial damage award and to develop non-infringing technology, obtain a license or cease selling the products or services that use or contain the infringing intellectual property. We may be unable to develop non-infringing products or services or obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may also be required to indemnify our customers if they become subject to third-party claims relating to intellectual property that we license or otherwise provide to them, which could be costly. Third parties may challenge the enforceability of our online agreements The law governing the validity and enforceability of online agreements and other electronic transactions is evolving. We could be subject to claims by third parties that the online terms and conditions for use of our Web sites, including disclaimers or limitations of liability, are unenforceable. A finding by a court that these terms and conditions or other online agreements are invalid could harm our business. We may be subject to claims brought against us as a result of content we provide Consumers access health-related information through our online services, including information regarding particular medical conditions and possible adverse reactions or side effects from medications. If our content, or content we obtain from third parties, contains inaccuracies, it is possible that consumers, employees, health plan members or others may sue us for various causes of action. Although our Web sites contain terms and conditions, including disclaimers of liability, that are intended to reduce or eliminate our liability, the law governing the validity and enforceability of online agreements and other electronic transactions is evolving. We could be subject to claims by third parties that our online agreements with consumers and physicians that provide the terms and conditions for use of our public or private portals are unenforceable. A finding by a court that these agreements are invalid and that we are subject to liability could harm our business and require costly changes to our business. We have editorial procedures in place to provide quality control of the information that we publish or provide. However, we cannot assure you that our editorial and other quality control procedures will be sufficient to ensure that there are no errors or omissions in particular content. Even if potential claims do not result in liability to us, investigating and defending against these claims could be expensive and time consuming and could divert management’s attention away from our operations. In addition, our business is based on establishing the reputation of our portals as trustworthy and dependable sources of healthcare information. Allegations of impropriety or inaccuracy, even if unfounded, could therefore harm our reputation and business. 41 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Proposed Merger with HLTH Corporation and to the Existing Relationship between WebMD and HLTH The HLTH Merger will result in a substantial increase in the number of shares of WebMD Common Stock available for trading, which could depress the price of such stock and/or increase the volatility of the price of such stock, both before and after completion of the HLTH Merger Although the HLTH Merger is expected to reduce the total number of outstanding shares of WebMD Common Stock, the HLTH Merger will greatly increase the number of such shares available for sale in the public markets. Currently, all 48,100,000 outstanding shares of WebMD Class B Common Stock are held by HLTH and do not trade in the public markets. As of February 25, 2008, approximately 9,150,000 shares of WebMD Class A Common Stock (the class traded publicly) were outstanding. In the HLTH Merger, the WebMD Class B Common Stock will be extinguished, but more than 36,000,000 new shares of WebMD Common Stock will be issued to holders of HLTH Common Stock and become immediately available for sale. Additional shares could become available for sale at or after that time depending upon: • whether holders of options to purchase HLTH Common Stock exercise those options and the timing of such exercises; and • whether holders of convertible notes issued by HLTH convert those notes and the timing of any such conversions. Sales of large amounts of WebMD Common Stock could depress the market price of WebMD Common Stock. In addition, the potential that such sales may occur could depress prices even in advance of such sales. We cannot predict the effect that the HLTH Merger will have on the price of WebMD Common Stock, both before and after completion of the HLTH Merger. The HLTH Merger is subject to closing conditions that, if not satisfied or waived, will result in the HLTH Merger not being completed, which may cause the market price of WebMD Class A Common Stock to decline The HLTH Merger is subject to customary conditions to closing, including the receipt of required approvals of the stockholders of HLTH and WHC and receipt of opinions of counsel relating to tax matters. In addition, the HLTH Merger is subject to deal-specific closing conditions, including: the combined company having a sufficient amount of available cash at closing to pay the cash portion of the merger consideration while leaving an agreed upon amount of cash in the combined company, calculated pursuant to a formula contained in the Merger Agreement; completion of the sale, by HLTH, of its holdings of ARS; and completion of the sale, by HLTH, of either ViPS or Porex. If any condition to the HLTH Merger is not satisfied or, if permissible, waived, the HLTH Merger will not be completed. Generally, waiver by WebMD of a condition to closing of the HLTH Merger will require approval of the Special Committee of the WebMD Board that negotiated the transaction with HLTH. We cannot predict what the effect on the market price of WebMD Class Common Stock would be if the HLTH Merger is not able to be completed, but depending on market conditions at the time, it could result in a decline in that market price. In addition, if there is uncertainty regarding whether the HLTH Merger will be completed (including uncertainty regarding whether the conditions to closing will be met), that could result in a decline in the market price of WebMD Class A Common Stock or an increase in the volatility of that market price. In the event that HLTH does not sell either ViPS or Porex prior to the closing of the HLTH Merger, WebMD would become exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of the remaining business HLTH has announced that it plans to divest its ViPS and Porex businesses. Completion of the sale of one of those businesses is a condition to closing of the HLTH Merger. However, the HLTH Merger could be completed before the sale of the other such business. In that case, WebMD (as the surviving company in the HLTH Merger) would become the owner of that business and the sale process would continue. WebMD would then be subject to the risk that the proceeds from the sale of that business are less than expected and all other risks inherent in the ownership of that business. There can be no assurances regarding whether WebMD would 42 Table of Contents be able to complete such sale or as to the timing or terms of such transaction. Even if HLTH has entered into an agreement with an acquirer with respect to the remaining business prior to completion of the HLTH Merger, WebMD would be subject to the risk that the conditions to closing provided for in such agreement might not be met. The financial results and operations of ViPS and Porex could be adversely affected by the diversion of management resources to the sale process and by uncertainty regarding the outcome of the process. For example, the uncertainty of who will own those businesses in the future could lead such business to lose or fail to attract employees, customers or business partners. This could adversely affect their operations and financial results and, as a result, the sale prices that HLTH or WebMD may receive for such businesses. We continue to be dependent on HLTH to provide us with services required by us for the operation of our business Some of the administrative services we require continue to be provided to us by HLTH under a Services Agreement. Under the Services Agreement, HLTH provides us with administrative services, including services relating to payroll, accounting, tax planning and compliance, employee benefit plans, legal matters and information processing. As a result, we are dependent on our relationship with HLTH for these important services. We reimburse HLTH under agreed-upon formulas that allocate to us a portion of HLTH’s aggregate costs related to those services. The Services Agreement is for a term of up to five years from the date of our initial public offering; however, we have the option to terminate these services, in whole or in part, at any time we choose to do so, generally by providing, with respect to specified services or groups of services, 60 days’ notice and, in some cases, paying a termination fee of not more than $30,000 to cover the costs of HLTH relating to the termination. The costs we are charged under the Services Agreement are not necessarily indicative of the costs that we would incur if we had to provide the services on our own or contract for them with third parties on a stand-alone basis. With respect to most of the services provided under the Services Agreement, we believe that it is likely that it would cost us more to provide them or contract for them on our own because we benefit from economies of scale. The concentrated ownership of our common stock by HLTH and certain corporate governance arrangements prevent our other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions We have two classes of common stock: • Class A Common Stock, which entitles the holder to one vote per share on all matters submitted to our stockholders; and • Class B Common Stock, which entitles the holder to five votes per share on all matters submitted to our stockholders. HLTH owns 100% of our Class B Common Stock, which represents approximately 84% of our outstanding common stock. These Class B shares collectively represent 96% of the combined voting power of our outstanding common stock. Given its ownership interest, HLTH is able to control the outcome of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors and the HLTH Merger (which HLTH has agreed, in the Merger Agreement, to vote to approve). Accordingly, except as specifically provided in the Merger Agreement, either in its capacity as a stockholder or through its control of our Board of Directors, HLTH is able to control all key decisions regarding our company, including mergers or other business combinations and acquisitions, dispositions of assets, future issuances of our common stock or other securities, the incurrence of debt by us, the payment of dividends on our common stock (including the frequency and the amount of dividends that would be payable on our common stock, a substantial majority of which HLTH owns) and amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. Further, as long as HLTH and its subsidiaries (excluding our company and our subsidiaries) continue to beneficially own shares representing at least a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of our outstanding voting stock, 43 Table of Contents it may take actions required to be taken at a meeting of stockholders without a meeting or a vote and without prior notice to holders of our Class A Common Stock. In addition, HLTH’s controlling interest may discourage a change of control that the holders of our Class A Common Stock may favor. Any of these provisions could be used by HLTH for its own advantage to the detriment of our other stockholders and our company. This in turn may have an adverse effect on the market price of our Class A Common Stock. The interests of HLTH may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders We cannot assure you that the interests of HLTH will coincide with the interests of the other holders of our common stock. For example, except as specifically provided in the Merger Agreement, HLTH could cause us to make acquisitions that increase the amount of our indebtedness or outstanding shares of common stock or sell revenue-generating assets. Also, HLTH or its directors and officers may allocate to HLTH or its other affiliates corporate opportunities that could have been directed to us. So long as HLTH continues to own shares of our common stock with significant voting power, HLTH will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. Some of our directors, officers and employees may have potential conflicts of interest as a result of having positions with or owning equity interests in HLTH Martin J. Wygod, in addition to being Chairman of the Board of our company, is Chairman of the Board of HLTH. Some of our other directors, officers and employees also serve as directors, officers or employees of HLTH. In addition, some of our directors, officers and employees own shares of HLTH’s common stock. Furthermore, because our officers and employees have participated in HLTH’s equity compensation plans and because service at our company will, so long as we are a majority-owned subsidiary of HLTH, qualify those persons for continued participation and continued vesting of equity awards under HLTH’s equity plans, many of our officers and employees and some of our directors hold, and may continue to hold, options to purchase HLTH’s common stock and shares of HLTH’s restricted stock. These arrangements and ownership interests or cash- or equity-based awards could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when directors or officers who own HLTH’s stock or stock options or who participate in HLTH’s benefit plans are faced with decisions that could have different implications for HLTH than they do for us. We cannot assure you that the provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation will adequately address potential conflicts of interest or that potential conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could adversely affect the value of our Class A Common Stock Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as Delaware corporate law, contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control or changes in our management and Board of Directors that holders of our Class A Common Stock might consider favorable and may prevent them from receiving a takeover premium for their shares. These provisions include, for example, our classified board structure, the disproportionate voting rights of the Class B Common Stock (relative to the Class A Common Stock) and the authorization of our Board of Directors to issue up to 50 million shares of preferred stock without a stockholder vote. In addition, our Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that after the time HLTH and its affiliates cease to own, in the aggregate, a majority of the combined voting power of our outstanding capital stock, stockholders may not act by written consent and may not call special meetings. These provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our Class A Common Stock could decline. We may be prevented from issuing stock to raise capital, to effectuate acquisitions or to provide equity incentives to members of our management and Board of Directors Beneficial ownership of at least 80% of the total voting power and value of our capital stock is required in order for HLTH to continue to include us in its consolidated group for federal income tax purposes, and 44 Table of Contents beneficial ownership of at least 80% of the total voting power of our capital stock and 80% of each class of any non-voting capital stock that we may issue is required in order for HLTH to effect a tax-free split-off, spin-off or other similar transaction. Under the terms of the tax sharing agreement that we have entered into with HLTH however, we have agreed that we will not knowingly take or fail to take any action that could reasonably be expected to preclude HLTH’s ability to undertake a tax-free split-off or spin-off. This may prevent us from issuing additional equity securities to raise capital, to effectuate acquisitions or to provide management or director equity incentives. We are included in HLTH’s consolidated tax return and, as a result, both we and HLTH may use each other’s net operating loss carryforwards Due to provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and applicable Treasury regulations relating to the manner and order in which net operating loss carryforwards are utilized when filing consolidated tax returns, a portion of our net operating loss carryforwards may be required to be utilized by HLTH before HLTH would be permitted to utilize its own net operating loss carryforwards. Correspondingly, in some situations, such as where HLTH’s net operating loss carryforwards were generated first, we may be required to utilize a portion of HLTH’s net operating loss carryforwards before we would have to utilize our own net operating loss carryforwards. Under our tax sharing agreement with HLTH, neither we nor HLTH is obligated to reimburse the other for the tax savings attributable to the utilization of the other party’s net operating loss carryforwards, except that HLTH has agreed to compensate us for any use of our net operating losses that may result from certain extraordinary transactions, including the sales in 2006 of its Business Services and Practice Services operating segments (for which compensation has been received). Accordingly, although we may obtain a benefit if we are required to utilize HLTH’s net operating loss carryforwards, we may suffer a detriment to the extent that HLTH is required to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards. The amount of each of our and HLTH’s net operating loss carryforwards that ultimately could be utilized by the other party will depend on the timing and amount of taxable income earned by us and HLTH in the future, which we are unable to predict. Correspondingly, we are not able to predict whether we or HLTH will be able to utilize our respective net operating loss carryforwards before they expire or whether there will be a net benefit to HLTH or to us. If certain transactions occur with respect to our capital stock or HLTH’s capital stock, we may be unable to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits to reduce our income taxes As of December 31, 2007, we had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $272 million for federal income tax purposes and federal tax credits of approximately $2.7 million residing within the WebMD legal entities, which excludes the impact of any unrecognized tax benefit. If certain transactions occur with respect to our capital stock or HLTH’s capital stock, including issuances, redemptions, recapitalizations, exercises of options, conversions of convertible debt, purchases or sales by 5%-or-greater shareholders and similar transactions, that result in a cumulative change of more than 50% of the ownership of our capital stock, taking into account indirect changes in ownership of our stock as a result of changes in ownership in or HLTH’s capital stock, over a three-year period (including a period commencing prior to our initial public offering), as determined under rules prescribed by the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and applicable Treasury regulations, an annual limitation would be imposed with respect to our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and federal tax credits against any taxable income that we achieve in future periods. HLTH is not subject to any contractual obligation to retain any of its Class B Common Stock. Moreover, there can be no assurance that limitations on the use of our net operating loss carryforwards and federal tax credits will not occur as a result of changes in the ownership of HLTH’s capital stock (which changes may be beyond the control of us and HLTH). We expect the HLTH Merger to result in a cumulative change of more than 50% of the ownership of HLTH’s capital, as determined under rules prescribed by the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and applicable Treasury regulations. However, we are currently unable to calculate the annual limitation that would be imposed on our ability to utilize the net operating loss carryforwards and federal tax credits. 45 Table of Contents We are included in HLTH’s consolidated group for federal income tax purposes and, as a result, may be liable for any shortfall in HLTH’s federal income tax payments We will be included in the HLTH consolidated group for federal income tax purposes as long as HLTH continues to own 80% of the total value of our capital stock. By virtue of its controlling ownership and our tax sharing agreement with HLTH, HLTH effectively controls all our tax decisions. Moreover, notwithstanding the tax sharing agreement, federal tax law provides that each member of a consolidated group is jointly and severally liable for the group’s entire federal income tax obligation. Thus, to the extent HLTH or other members of the group fail to make any federal income tax payments required of them by law, we would be liable for the shortfall. Similar principles generally apply for income tax purposes in some state, local and foreign jurisdictions. Other Risks Applicable to Our Company and to Ownership of Our Securities Negative conditions in the market for certain investments may result in us incurring a loss on such investments As of the date of this Annual Report, WebMD currently has a total of approximately $327 million in consolidated cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, which includes approximately $169 million of investments in certain auction rate securities (ARS). The types of ARS investments that WebMD owns are backed by student loans, 97% of which are guaranteed under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP), and all had credit ratings of AAA or Aaa when purchased. WebMD does not own any other type of ARS investments. Recent negative conditions in the regularly held auctions for these securities have prevented holders from being able to liquidate their holdings through that type of sale. As a result, we are in the process of evaluating the extent of any impairment in its ARS investments resulting from the current lack of liquidity; however, we are not yet able to quantify the amount of any impairment. In the event WebMD needs to or wants to sell its ARS investments, it may not be able to do so until a future auction on these types of investments is successful or until a buyer is found outside the auction process. If potential buyers are unwilling to purchase the investments at their carrying amount, we would incur a loss on any such sales. Acquisitions, business combinations and other transactions may be difficult to complete and, if completed, may have negative consequences for our business and our securityholders WebMD has been built, in part, through a series of acquisitions. We intend to continue to seek to acquire or to engage in business combinations with companies engaged in complementary businesses. In addition, we may enter into joint ventures, strategic alliances or similar arrangements with third parties. These transactions may result in changes in the nature and scope of our operations and changes in our financial condition. Our success in completing these types of transactions will depend on, among other things, our ability to locate suitable candidates and negotiate mutually acceptable terms with them, and to obtain adequate financing. Significant competition for these opportunities exists, which may increase the cost of and decrease the opportunities for these types of transactions. Financing for these transactions may come from several sources, including: • cash and cash equivalents on hand and marketable securities; • proceeds from the incurrence of indebtedness; and • proceeds from the issuance of additional Class A Common Stock, of preferred stock, of convertible debt or of other securities. The issuance of additional equity or debt securities could: • cause substantial dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders at the time of the issuance; • cause substantial dilution of our earnings per share; 46 Table of Contents • subject us to the risks associated with increased leverage, including a reduction in our ability to obtain financing or an increase in the cost of any financing we obtain; • subject us to restrictive covenants that could limit our flexibility in conducting future business activities; and • adversely affect the prevailing market price for our outstanding securities. We do not intend to seek securityholder approval for any such acquisition or security issuance unless required by applicable law, regulation or the terms of then existing securities. Our business will suffer if we fail to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies or to assess the risks in particular transactions We have in the past acquired, and may in the future acquire, businesses, technologies, services, product lines and other assets. The successful integration of the acquired businesses and assets into our operations, on a cost-effective basis, can be critical to our future performance. The amount and timing of the expected benefits of any acquisition, including potential synergies between our company and the acquired business, are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those relating to: • our ability to maintain relationships with the customers of the acquired business; • our ability to retain or replace key personnel; • potential conflicts in sponsor or advertising relationships; • our ability to coordinate organizations that are geographically diverse and may have different business cultures; and • compliance with regulatory requirements. We cannot guarantee that any acquired businesses will be successfully integrated with our operations in a timely or cost-effective manner, or at all. Failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses or to achieve anticipated operating synergies, revenue enhancements or cost savings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although our management attempts to evaluate the risks inherent in each transaction and to value acquisition candidates appropriately, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain all such risks or that acquired businesses and assets will perform as we expect or enhance the value of our company as a whole. In addition, acquired companies or businesses may have larger than expected liabilities that are not covered by the indemnification, if any, that we are able to obtain from the sellers. We may not be able to raise additional funds when needed for our business or to exploit opportunities We may need to raise additional funds to support expansion, develop new or enhanced applications and services, respond to competitive pressures, acquire complementary businesses or technologies or take advantage of unanticipated opportunities. If required, we may raise such additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing, strategic relationships or other arrangements. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all, or that such financing will not be dilutive to our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 47 Table of Contents 