ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements use words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of potential future events, circumstances or future operating or financial performance. These forward-looking statements are based on management’s current expectations and observations. Included among the factors that, in our view, could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward looking statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K are the following: (i) changes in demand or rates in the drybulk shipping industry; (ii) changes in the supply of or demand for drybulk products, generally or in particular regions; (iii) changes in the supply of drybulk carriers including newbuilding of vessels or lower than anticipated scrapping of older vessels; (iv) changes in rules and regulations applicable to the cargo industry, including, without limitation, legislation adopted by international organizations or by individual countries and actions taken by regulatory authorities; (v) increases in costs and expenses including but not limited to: crew wages, insurance, provisions, repairs, maintenance and general and administrative expenses; (vi) the adequacy of our insurance arrangements; (vii) changes in general domestic and international political conditions; (viii) changes in the condition of the Company’s vessels or applicable maintenance or regulatory standards (which may affect, among other things, our anticipated drydocking or maintenance and repair costs) and unanticipated drydock expenditures; (ix) those other risks and uncertainties contained under the heading “ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS”, and (x) other factors listed from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The following risk factors and other information included in this report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. 13 RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS & OPERATIONS Industry Specific Risk Factors The international drybulk shipping industry is cyclical and volatile, which may lead to reductions and volatility in our charter rates, vessel values and results of operations. The international drybulk shipping industry is cyclical and volatile. Fluctuations in charter rates result from changes in the supply and demand for vessel capacity and changes in the supply and demand for the major commodities carried by marine vessels internationally. The factors affecting supply and demand for vessels and supply and demand for products or materials transported by drybulk carriers are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. The factors that influence demand for drybulk carriers include: · supply of and demand for drybulk products; · the distance drybulk products are to be moved by sea; · the globalization of manufacturing; · global and regional economic and political conditions; · changes in global production of drybulk cargoes; · developments in international trade; · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns; · environmental and other regulatory developments; and · currency exchange rates. The factors that influence the supply of drybulk carriers include: · the number of newbuilding deliveries; · the scrapping rate of older vessels; · the costs of building new vessels and drydocking vessels for repair; · changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful life of vessels; · the number of vessels that are out of service; and · port or canal congestion. Our ability to recharter our drybulk carriers upon the expiration or termination of their current time charters and the charter rates payable under any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, the then current state of the drybulk carrier market. If the drybulk carrier market is in a period of depression when our vessels' charters expire or we are trying to charter newly acquired vessels, we may be forced to charter them at reduced rates or even possibly a rate whereby we incur a loss, which may reduce our earnings or make our earnings volatile. In addition, because the market value of our vessels may fluctuate significantly, we may incur losses when we sell vessels, which may adversely affect our earnings. If we sell vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our financial statements, the sale may be at less than the vessel's carrying amount on our financial statements, resulting in a loss and a reduction in earnings. 14 An economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. A significant number of the port calls made by our vessels involve the loading or discharging of raw materials and semi-finished products in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, a negative change in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, and particularly in China or Japan, may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. In particular, in recent years, China has been one of the world's fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product. We cannot assure you that such growth will be sustained or that the Chinese economy will not experience negative growth in the future. Moreover, any slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union or certain Asian countries may adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends will likely be materially and adversely affected by an economic downturn in any of these countries. We are subject to regulation and liability under environmental and operational safety laws that could require significant expenditures and affect our cash flows and net income. Our business and the operation of our vessels are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions and treaties, national, state and local environmental and operational safety laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate, including those described below, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. Because such conventions, treaties, laws and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance or the impact thereof on the resale price or useful life of our vessels. Additional conventions, treaties, laws and regulations may be adopted which could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and which may materially adversely affect our operations. We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, certificates and other authorizations with respect to our operations, and some of the conditions imposed by such governments and agencies to obtain or renew such authorizations may include requirements outside of our control. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the International Maritime Organization's, or IMO's, International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or the ISM Code. The ISM Code requires ship owners and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive "Safety Management System" that includes, among other things, the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. Any failure on our part to comply with the ISM Code may subject us to increased liability, may decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels, and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. Although the United States is not a party, many countries have ratified and follow the liability scheme adopted by the IMO and set out in the CLC, and the Convention for the Establishment of an International Fund for Oil Pollution of 1971, as amended. Under these conventions, a vessel's registered owner is strictly liable for pollution damage caused on the territorial waters of a contracting state by discharge of persistent oil, subject to certain complete defenses. Many of the countries that have ratified the CLC have increased the liability limits through a 1992 Protocol to the CLC. The right to limit liability is also forfeited under the CLC where the spill is caused by the owner's actual fault and, under the 1992 Protocol, where the spill is caused by the owner's intentional or reckless conduct. Vessels trading to contracting states must provide evidence of insurance coverage. In jurisdictions where the CLC has not been adopted, various legislative schemes or common law govern, and liability is imposed either on the basis of fault or in a manner similar to the CLC. The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, established an extensive regulatory and liability regime for the protection and cleanup of the environment from oil spills. OPA affects all owners and operators whose vessels trade in the United States, its territories and possessions or whose vessels operate in U.S. waters. OPA allows for potentially unlimited liability without regard to fault of vessel owners, operators and bareboat charterers for all containment and clean-up costs and other damages arising from discharges or threatened discharges of oil from their vessels, including bunkers (fuel), in U.S. waters. OPA also expressly permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to hazardous materials and oil pollution materials occurring within their boundaries. 15 While we do not carry oil as cargo, we do carry bunkers in our drybulk carriers. We currently maintain, for each of our vessels, pollution liability coverage insurance of $1 billion per incident. Damages from a catastrophic spill exceeding our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin and destination. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of the contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Furthermore, changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. The shipping industry has inherent operational risks which may adversely affect our business. Our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost, and our business may be interrupted, because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather, mechanical failures, human error, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. All these hazards can result in death or injury to persons, increased costs, loss of revenues, loss or damage to property (including cargo), environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, harm to our reputation as a safe and reliable operator and delay or rerouting. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to pay drydocking costs that our insurance does not cover in full. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. In addition, space at drydocking facilities is sometimes limited and not all drydocking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable drydocking facility or we may be forced to travel to a drydocking facility that is distant from the relevant vessel's position. The loss of earnings while vessels are forced to wait for space or to travel to more distant drydocking facilities would decrease our earnings. If one of our vessels were involved in an accident with the potential risk of environmental contamination, the resulting media coverage could damage our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel operator and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Terrorist attacks and international hostilities could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks, the threat of attacks and the response of the United States and other countries to these attacks could adversely affect (1) global trading conditions and, consequently, the demand for drybulk carrier transportation and (2) borrowing conditions in the global financial markets and, consequently, our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. Terrorists have specifically targeted vessels in the past, and there can be no assurance they will not do so in the future. The recent conflict in Iraq may lead to additional acts of terrorism, regional conflict and other armed conflict around the world, which could result in increased volatility of the financial markets and have a negative effect on the U.S. and global economy. Any future terrorist attack could have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies may be very costly and could reduce our net cash flows and net income. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be certified as being "in class" by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention. Our vessels are currently enrolled with Det Norske Veritas, the American Bureau of Shipping (ABS), Lloyd’s Register of Shipping, Nippon Kaiji Kyokai (NK Class), or China Classification Society, each of which is a member of the International Association of Classification Societies. 16 A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel's machinery may be placed on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Our vessels are on special survey cycles for hull inspection and continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection. Every vessel is also required to be drydocked every two to three years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. If any vessel does not maintain its class or fails any annual, intermediate or special survey, the vessel will be unable to trade between ports and will be unemployable and we could be in violation of certain covenants in our New Credit Facility, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Labor interruptions could disrupt our business. Our vessels are manned by masters, officers and crews that are employed by third parties. If not resolved in a timely and cost-effective manner, industrial action or other labor unrest could prevent or hinder our operations from being carried out normally and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. The smuggling of drugs or other contraband onto our vessels may lead to governmental claims against us. We expect that our vessels will call in ports in South America and other areas where smugglers attempt to hide drugs and other contraband on vessels, with or without the knowledge of crew members. To the extent our vessels are found with contraband, whether inside or attached to the hull of our vessel and whether with or without the knowledge of any of our crew, we may face governmental or other regulatory claims which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of money to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the "sister ship" theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert "sister ship" liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings. A government of a vessel's registry could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner. A government could also requisition our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our profits. From time to time, we operate our vessels on spot charters either directly or by placing them in pools with similar vessels. Spot charter arrangements generally provide that the vessel owner or pool operator bear the cost of fuel (bunkers), which is a significant vessel operating expense. As a result, an increase in the price of fuel beyond our expectations may adversely affect our profitability. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Further, fuel may become much more expensive in the future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. 17 Our results of operations are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may adversely affect our financial condition. We operate our vessels in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results. The drybulk sector is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and raw materials in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. As a result, we expect our revenues to be weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and conversely, we expect our revenue to be stronger during the quarters ended December 31 and March 31. This seasonality could materially affect our operating results and adversely affect our financial condition. Company Specific Risk Factors Our earnings may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our vessels. All of the vessels in our fleet (with the exception of the Genco Leader and the Genco Trader) are presently engaged under time charter contracts that expire (assuming the option periods in the time charters are not exercised) between August 2006 and March 2007. Although time charters provide relatively steady streams of revenues, our vessels committed to time charters may not be available for spot voyages during periods of increasing charterhire rates, when spot voyages might be more profitable. While current charterhire rates for drybulk carriers are higher (relative to historical periods), the market is volatile, and in the past charterhire rates for drybulk carriers have declined below operating costs of vessels. If our vessels become available for employment in the spot market or under new time charters during periods when market prices have fallen, we may have to employ our vessels at depressed market prices, which would lead to reduced or volatile earnings. We cannot assure you that future charterhire rates will enable us to operate our vessels profitably. In addition, our standard time charter contracts with our customers specify certain performance parameters, which if not met can result in customer claims. Such claims may adversely affect our ability to operate our vessels profitably. If we cannot find profitable employment for additional vessels that we acquire, our earnings will be adversely affected. We generally acquire vessels free of charter, although we may acquire some vessels with time charters. In addition, where a vessel has been under voyage charter, it is rare in the shipping industry for the last charterer of the vessel in the seller's hands to continue as the first charterer of the vessel in the buyer's hands. We cannot assure you that we will be able to arrange immediate or profitable employment for vessels that we acquire. If we cannot do so, our earnings will be adversely affected. We depend upon a small number of charterers for a large part of our revenues. The loss of one or more of these charterers could adversely affect our financial performance. We have derived a significant part of our revenues from a small number of charterers. For the year ended December 31, 2005, 97% of our revenues were derived from twelve charterers. If we were to lose any of these charters, or if any of these charterers significantly reduced its use of our services or was unable to make charter payments to us, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our practice of purchasing and operating previously owned vessels may result in increased operating costs and vessels off-hire, which could adversely affect our earnings. All of our drybulk carriers were previously owned by third parties. Our current business strategy includes additional growth through the acquisition of previously owned vessels. While we typically inspect previously owned vessels before purchase, this does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Accordingly, we may not discover defects or other problems with such vessels before purchase. Any such hidden defects or problems, when detected, may be expensive to repair, and if not detected, may result in accidents or other incidents for which we may become liable to third parties. Also, when purchasing previously owned vessels, we do not receive the benefit of any builder warranties if the vessels we buy are older than one year. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. Older vessels are typically less fuel-efficient than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. 18 Governmental regulations, safety and other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to some of our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which these vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. We depend to a significant degree upon a third-party manager to provide the technical management of our fleet. Any failure of this technical managers to perform its obligations to us could adversely affect our business. We have contracted the technical management of our fleet, including crewing, maintenance and repair services, to Wallem, our third-party technical management company. The failure of this technical manager to perform its obligations could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Although we may have rights against our third-party manager if it defaults on its obligations to us, our shareholders will share that recourse only indirectly to the extent that we recover funds. We cannot assure you that we will pay dividends, which could reduce the return on your investment in us and the market value of our common stock. We will make dividend payments to our shareholders only if our board of directors, acting in its sole discretion, determines that such payments would be in our best interest and in compliance with relevant legal and contractual requirements. The principal business factors that our board of directors considers when determining the timing and amount of dividend payments will be our earnings, financial condition and cash requirements at the time. Currently, the principal contractual and legal restrictions on our ability to make dividend payments are those contained in our loan agreements and those created by Marshall Islands law. Under the Company’s New Credit Facility, the Company is permitted to pay or declare dividends in accordance with its dividend policy so long as no default or event of default has occurred and is continuing or would result from such declaration or payment. Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends other than from surplus or while a company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent upon the payment of such dividends. We may incur other expenses or liabilities that would reduce or eliminate the cash available for distribution as dividends. We may also enter into new agreements or the Marshall Islands or another jurisdiction may adopt laws or regulations that place additional restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. Consequently, we cannot assure you that dividends will be paid with the frequency indicated in this report or at all. If for any reason we are unable or elect not to pay dividends, the return on your investment in us may be reduced below what it would have been had such dividends been paid. We may not be able to grow or effectively manage our growth, which could cause us to incur additional indebtedness and other liabilities and adversely affect our business. A principal focus of our business strategy is to grow by expanding our business. Our future growth will depend on a number of factors, some of which we can control and some of which we cannot. These factors include our ability to: · identify vessels for acquisition; · consummate acquisitions or establish joint ventures; · integrate acquired vessels successfully with our existing operations; · expand our customer base; and · obtain required financing for our existing and new operations. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks, including undisclosed liabilities and obligations, difficulty obtaining additional qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and suppliers and integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures. Future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional indebtedness and liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. In addition, competition from other buyers for vessels could reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay a higher price than we might otherwise pay. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in executing our growth plans or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with these plans. 19 A decline in the market value of our vessels could lead to a default under our New Credit Facility and the loss of our vessels, which would adversely affect our business. We have entered into a credit agreement with a syndicate of commercial lenders that have, subject to certain conditions, provided us with a New Credit Facility of up to $450 million. If the market value of our fleet declines, we may not be in compliance with certain provisions of our New Credit Facility, and we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing. If we are unable to pledge additional collateral, our lenders could accelerate our debt. For instance, if the market value of our vessels declines below approximately 130% of the aggregate amount outstanding under our New Credit Facility, we will not be in compliance with certain provisions of the facility, and we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing. The market value of our fleet is currently above the minimum market value that is required by our New Credit Facility. However, should our charter rates or vessel values materially decline in the future due to any of the reasons discussed in the risk factors set forth above or otherwise, we may be required to take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives to satisfy these provisions. Events beyond our control, including changes in the economic and business conditions in the shipping industry, may affect our ability to comply with these covenants. We cannot assure you that we will satisfy all our debt covenants in the future or that our lenders will waive any failure to do so. Restrictive covenants in our New Credit Facility may impose financial and other restrictions on us which could negatively impact our growth and adversely affect our operations. Our ability to borrow amounts under our New Credit Facility are subject to the satisfaction of certain customary conditions precedent and compliance with terms and conditions included in the loan documents. It is a condition precedent to each subsequent drawdown under the facility that the aggregate amount outstanding under the facility (determined on a pro forma basis giving effect to the amount proposed to be drawn down) not be greater than 65% of the fair market value of the vessels securing borrowings under the facility. To the extent that we are not able to satisfy these requirements, we may not be able to draw down the full amount under our New Credit Facility without obtaining a waiver or consent from the lender. In addition, the covenants in our New Credit Facility require us, among other things, to: · ensure that the fair market value of our collateral vessels is not less than 130% of our outstanding indebtedness; · maintain a certain ratio of total indebtedness to total capitalization; · maintain a certain ratio of our earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to interest expense; · maintain working capital liquidity in an amount not less than $500,000 per vessel securing borrowings under the facility; and · maintain a minimum level of net worth of $263.3 million. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with these covenants in the future. Our New Credit Facility imposes operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability to: · incur additional indebtedness on satisfactory terms or at all; · incur liens on our assets; · sell our vessels or the capital stock of our subsidiaries; · make investments; · engage in mergers or acquisitions; · pay dividends (following an event of default or our breach of a covenant); · make capital expenditures; · compete effectively to the extent our competitors are subject to less onerous financial restrictions; and · change the management of our vessels or terminate or materially amend the management agreement relating to each vessel. 20 Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate actions. Our lenders' interests may be different from ours, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders' permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest and from executing our business strategy of growth through acquisitions. If we are unable to fund our capital expenditures, we may not be able to continue to operate some of our vessels, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to pay dividends. In order to fund our capital expenditures, we may be required to incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or equity securities. Our ability to borrow money and access the capital markets through future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such offering as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures would limit our ability to continue to operate some of our vessels and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Even if we are successful in obtaining such funds through financings, the terms of such financings could further limit our ability to pay dividends. We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations or to make dividend payments. We are a holding company, and our subsidiaries, which are all wholly owned by us, either directly or indirectly, conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our wholly owned subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to satisfy our financial obligations and to pay dividends to our shareholders depends on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, we may be unable or our board of directors may determine that is not in our best interest to pay dividends. Our ability to obtain additional debt financing may depend on the performance of our then existing charters and the creditworthiness of our charterers. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional capital resources that we will require to purchase additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such capital. Our inability to obtain additional financing at all or at a higher than anticipated cost may adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. If management is unable to provide a report as to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified attestation report as to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 when that requirement becomes applicable to us, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we will be required to include in each of our future annual reports on Form 10-K a report containing our management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a related attestation of our independent registered public accounting firm. We expect this requirement will first apply to us with respect to our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. We will undertake a comprehensive effort in preparation for compliance with Section 404. This effort will include the documentation, testing and review of our internal controls under the direction of our management. We cannot be certain at this time that all our controls will be considered effective. Therefore, we can give no assurances that our internal control over financial reporting will satisfy the new regulatory requirements when they become applicable to us. If our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified attestation report on a timely basis as required by Section 404, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. 21 If we are unable to operate our financial and operations systems effectively or to recruit suitable employees as we expand our fleet, our performance may be adversely affected. Our current financial and operating systems may not be adequate as we implement our plan to expand the size of our fleet, and our attempts to improve those systems may be ineffective. In addition, as we expand our fleet, we will have to rely on our outside technical managers to recruit suitable additional seafarers and shore-based administrative and management personnel. We cannot assure you that our outside technical managers will be able to continue to hire suitable employees as we expand our fleet. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may negatively affect the effectiveness of our management and our results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team and our ability to hire and retain key members of our management team. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining personnel could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. We do not intend to maintain "key man" life insurance on any of our officers. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us if we lose our vessels or to compensate others. We carry hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance (which includes environmental damage and pollution insurance coverage), and war risk insurance for our fleet. We currently maintain insurance against loss of hire, which covers business interruptions that result in the loss of use of a vessel. We cannot assure you that we are adequately insured against all risks. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our fleet in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew our insurance policies on the same or commercially reasonable terms, or at all, in the future. For example, more stringent environmental regulations have led in the past to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. A catastrophic oil spill or marine disaster could exceed our insurance coverage. In addition, our insurance may be voidable by the insurers as a result of certain of our actions, such as our ships failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime self-regulatory organizations. Further, we cannot assure you that our insurance policies will cover all losses that we incur, or that disputes over insurance claims will not arise with our insurance carriers. Any claims covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, and since it is possible that a large number of claims may be brought, the aggregate amount of these deductibles could be material. In addition, our insurance policies are subject to limitations and exclusions, which may increase our costs or lower our revenues. Any uninsured or underinsured loss may adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. We are subject to funding calls by our protection and indemnity clubs, and our clubs may not have enough resources to cover claims made against them. We are indemnified for legal liabilities incurred while operating our vessels through membership in protection and indemnity associations, or P&I clubs. P&I clubs are mutual insurance clubs whose members must contribute to cover losses sustained by other club members. The objective of a P&I club is to provide mutual insurance based on the aggregate tonnage of a member's vessels entered into the club. Claims are paid through the aggregate premiums of all members of the club, although members remain subject to calls for additional funds if the aggregate premiums are insufficient to cover claims submitted to the club. Claims submitted to the club may include those incurred by members of the club, as well as claims submitted to the club from other P&I clubs with which our P&I club has entered into interclub agreements. We cannot assure you that the P&I clubs to which we belong will remain viable or that we will not become subject to additional funding calls which could adversely affect us. 22 We may have to pay tax on U.S. source income, which would reduce our earnings. If we do not qualify for an exemption pursuant to Section 883 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, then we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our shipping income that is derived from U.S. sources. If we are subject to such tax, our net income and cash flow would be reduced by the amount of such tax. We will qualify for exemption under Section 883 if, among other things, our stock is treated as primarily and regularly traded on an established securities market in the United States. Under the final Section 883 regulations, we might not satisfy this publicly-traded requirement in any taxable year in which 50% or more of our stock is owned for more than half the days in such year by persons who actually or constructively own 5% or more of our stock, or 5% shareholders. We believe that based on the ownership of our stock in 2005, we satisfied the publicly-traded requirement under the final Section 883 regulations for 2005. However, as of the end of the 2005 calendar year, such five percent or more shareholders owned at least 55% of our common stock. If such shareholders were to maintain such ownership for more than half the days of 2006, we would not be eligible to claim exemption from tax under Section 883. We can therefore give no assurance that changes and shifts in the ownership of our stock by five percent of more shareholders will permit us to qualify for exemption from tax in 2006 or in future years. If we do not qualify for the Section 883 exemption, our shipping income derived from U.S. sources, or 50% of our gross shipping income attributable to transportation beginning or ending in the United States, would be subject to a 4% tax imposed without allowance for deductions. For the fiscal year of 2005, approximately 10% of our revenues were attributable to transportation beginning or ending in the United States. If we were subject to this 4% tax on our gross shipping income during 2005, such tax would be approximately $0.2 million. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a "passive foreign investment company," which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company," or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of "passive income." For purposes of these tests, "passive income" includes dividends, interest and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business, as defined in the Treasury Regulations. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income." U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our proposed method of operation, we do not believe that we will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time chartering activities does not constitute "passive income," and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our proposed method of operation. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders will face adverse U.S. tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders, as discussed below under "Tax Considerations—U.S. Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders"), such shareholders would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at the highest applicable income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common stock, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder's holding period of our common stock. See "Tax Considerations—U.S. Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders" for a more comprehensive discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders if we are treated as a PFIC. 23 Because we generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but incur a portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could hurt our results of operations. We generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars, but we may incur drydocking costs and special survey fees in other currencies. If our expenditures on such costs and fees were significant, and the U.S. dollar were weak against such currencies, our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends could be adversely affected. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK We are controlled by Fleet Acquisition LLC, which may limit your ability to influence our actions. As of December 31, 2005, Fleet Acquisition LLC, or Fleet Acquisition, owns 53.4% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result of this share ownership and for so long as Fleet Acquisition owns a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock, Fleet Acquisition will be able to influence the outcome of any shareholder vote, including the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our articles of incorporation or bylaws and possible mergers, corporate control contests and other significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us. This concentration of ownership could also discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which could in turn have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We are incorporated in the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law and may make it more difficult for our shareholders to protect their interests. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and bylaws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain U.S. jurisdictions and there have been few judicial cases in the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. Anti-takeover provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of discouraging, delaying, or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Several provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws, which are summarized below, may have anti-takeover effects. These provisions are intended to avoid costly takeover battles, lessen our vulnerability to a hostile change of control and enhance the ability of our board of directors to maximize shareholder value in connection with any unsolicited offer to acquire us. However, these anti-takeover provisions, which are summarized below, could also discourage, delay or prevent (1) the merger or acquisition of our company by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise that a shareholder may consider in its best interest and (2) the removal of incumbent officers and directors. Blank Check Preferred Stock. Under the terms of our amended and restated articles of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority, without any further vote or action by our shareholders, to authorize our issuance of up to 25,000,000 shares of blank check preferred stock. Our board of directors may issue shares of preferred stock on terms calculated to discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or the removal of our management. 24 Classified Board of Directors. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation provide for the division of our board of directors into three classes of directors, with each class as nearly equal in number as possible, serving staggered, three-year terms beginning upon the expiration of the initial term for each class. Approximately one-third of our board of directors will be elected each year. This classified board provision could discourage a third party from making a tender offer for our shares or attempting to obtain control of us. It could also delay shareholders who do not agree with the policies of our board of directors from removing a majority of our board of directors for up to two years. Election and Removal of Directors. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors. Our bylaws require parties other than the board of directors to give advance written notice of nominations for the election of directors. Our articles of incorporation also provide that our directors may be removed only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of 662/3% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote for those directors or by a majority of the members of the board of directors then in office. These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent the removal of incumbent officers and directors. Limited Actions by Shareholders. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and our bylaws provide that any action required or permitted to be taken by our shareholders must be effected at an annual or special meeting of shareholders or by the unanimous written consent of our shareholders. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and our bylaws provide that, subject to certain exceptions, our Chairman, President, or Secretary at the direction of the board of directors may call special meetings of our shareholders and the business transacted at the special meeting is limited to the purposes stated in the notice. Advance Notice Requirements for Shareholder Proposals and Director Nominations. Our bylaws provide that shareholders seeking to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of their proposal in writing to the corporate secretary. Generally, to be timely, a shareholder's notice must be received at our principal executive offices not less than 150 days nor more than 180 days before the date on which we first mailed our proxy materials for the preceding year's annual meeting. Our bylaws also specify requirements as to the form and content of a shareholder's notice. These provisions may impede shareholder's ability to bring matters before an annual meeting of shareholders or make nominations for directors at an annual meeting of shareholders. It may not be possible for our investors to enforce U.S. judgments against us. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands and most of our subsidiaries are also organized in the Marshall Islands. Substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to serve process within the United States upon us or to enforce judgment upon us for civil liabilities in U.S. courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we or our subsidiaries are incorporated or where our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries are located (1) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our subsidiaries based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws or (2) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or our subsidiaries based upon these laws. Future sales of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The market price of our common stock could decline due to sales of a large number of shares in the market, including sales of shares by our large shareholders, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales could also make it more difficult or impossible for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. We have entered into a registration rights agreement with Fleet Acquisition LLC that entitles it to have an aggregate of 13,500,000 shares registered for sale in the public market pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act. We also registered on Form S-8 an aggregate of 2,000,000 shares issued or issuable under our equity compensation plan. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 25 ITEM 