D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We may not succeed in sustaining and expanding the market for our ECLIA business and our free arrangement for ECLIA analyzer, whereby we will provide ECLIA analyzers to certain hospitals free of charge, may not be successful in generating additional recurring revenue from sales of our ECLIA reagent kits. We began marketing and selling our ECLIA analyzers and reagent kits in September 2004. Our ECLIA system is referred to as a “closed” system since our ECLIA analyzer can only be used with reagent kits manufactured by us and our reagent kits can only be used with our ECLIA analyzer. Gross profit derived from the ECLIA business was RMB157.8 million, RMB277.4 million and RMB366.2 million (US$53.6 million) for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. In order to further expand the installed base of our ECLIA analyzers and derive additional recurring revenue from sales of our reagent kits, we started to provide our ECLIA analyzers to hospitals with certain diagnostic volume free of charge to promote the sales of our ECLIA reagent kits in April 2008. Going forward, the long-term success of our ECLIA business depends on several factors, including our ability to: • successfully promote product awareness of our ECLIA analyzers and reagent kits in China; • develop new reagent kits to expand the applications of our ECLIA system; • increase the usage of reagent kits in hospitals; • continue to expand the installed base of our ECLIA analyzers and derive recurring revenue from sales of our reagent kits; • competitively price our ECLIA reagent kits; • select effective distributors; and • comply with new or changing regulatory requirements and obtain additional regulatory approvals or clearances for new reagent kits in a timely manner. Luminescence immunoassay technology is a well established method of clinical diagnosis. As a result, our ECLIA business is competing in a market in which there are already many established industry players. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully market or sell our ECLIA analyzers and reagent kits in the future. In addition, we cannot assure you that our free arrangement for ECLIA analyzer would successfully 7 Table of Contents expand the installed base of our ECLIA analyzers and increase recurring revenue from sales of reagent kits and that there would be no negative impact on our existing customer base or revenue stream. We also cannot assure you that our ECLIA business, or any future enhancements to our ECLIA business, will generate adequate revenue to offset our investments and costs in acquiring, developing or marketing our ECLIA business. If there is insufficient demand for our ECLIA analyzers and reagent kits, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. In addition, any announcement of new products, services or enhancements by us or our competitors may cause our customers to cancel or postpone purchasing decisions for our existing products in anticipation of these new products, services or enhancements. We may not succeed in sustaining and expanding the market for our FISH probes and our limited operation experience with FISH probes makes evaluating our FISH business and its prospects difficult. We only introduced our FISH business to the market in June 2007. We develop and manufacture FISH probes internally. Our FISH probes can be used with the FISH imaging analyzers purchased directly from the manufacturers or sold by us. Gross profit derived from the FISH business was RMB24.6 million and RMB231.2 million (US$33.8 million) for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively. The success of our FISH business depends on several factors, including our ability to: • successfully promote product awareness of the FISH probes in China; • expand our direct sales force targeting large hospitals; • successfully expand the installed base of the FISH imaging analyzers and derive increasing recurring revenue from sales of our FISH probes; • competitively price our FISH probes; • develop new FISH probes to expand the applications of our FISH business for diagnosis of new diseases and disorders; and • comply with new or changing regulatory requirements and obtain additional regulatory approvals or clearances for new FISH probes in a timely manner. FISH is an established technology for clinical diagnosis of genetic syndromes in the prenatal and postnatal settings and diagnosis of cancers in Western countries. As a result, our FISH probes are competing in the Chinese market in which there are international players with extensive experience. The adoption rate of the FISH imaging analyzers and probes in China is low and we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully market or sell our FISH probes despite our cost advantage and our distribution experience in China. We also cannot assure you that our FISH probes, or any future enhancements to our FISH probes, will generate adequate revenue to offset our investments and costs in acquiring, developing or marketing our FISH probes. If there is insufficient demand for our FISH probes, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, any announcement of price change, new products, services or enhancements by our competitors may cause our customers to cancel or postpone purchasing decisions for our FISH probes. In addition, our limited operating history with the FISH probes may not provide a meaningful basis for you to evaluate our business, financial performance and prospects in our FISH business. We may not have sufficient experience to address the risks frequently encountered by early-stage companies or companies exploring in new industries, and as a result we may not be able to: • maintain profitability; • continue to effectively commercialize our FISH probes; • acquire and retain customers; • attract, train, motivate and retain qualified personnel; • keep up with evolving industry standards and market developments; 8 Table of Contents • increase the market awareness of our FISH probes; • respond to competitive market conditions; • maintain adequate control of our expenses; • manage our relationships with our suppliers, distributors and direct-selling hospitals; or • protect our proprietary technologies. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We may not succeed in developing a market for our SPR system and HPV-DNA chips. We acquired our SPR technology and related assets in December 2008 and only began to introduce our SPR systems and HPV-DNA chips to certain existing hospital customers in April 2009. Since then, the progress of the placement of our SPR systems with hospitals was significantly affected because the attention of our senior management was significantly diverted to the internal investigation started in April 2009. As a result, we do not expect to start delivery of our SPR systems to our customers until October 2009 and do not expect to generate revenue from the sale of HPV-DNA chips until January 2010. Our SPR system is referred to as a “closed” system since our SPR system can only be used with DNA chips manufactured by us and our DNA chips can only be used with our SPR system. In order to expand the installed base of our SPR systems and derive recurring revenue from sales of our DNA chips, we plan to provide our SPR systems free of charge to large hospitals to promote the sales of our DNA chips. The success of our SPR business depends on several factors, including our ability to: • devote sufficient management attention and resources to the promotion and development of our SPR business; • successfully promote product awareness of our SPR system and DNA chips in China; • develop new DNA chips to expand the applications of our SPR system; • continue to expand the installed base of our SPR systems and derive recurring revenue from sales of our DNA chips; • competitively price our DNA chips; and • comply with new or changing regulatory requirements and obtain additional regulatory approvals or clearances for new DNA chips in a timely manner. We are the first company in China to manufacture SPR system and HPV-DNA chips for clinical diagnosis and we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully market or sell our DNA chips despite our cost advantage and our distribution experience in China. In addition, we cannot assure you that our free arrangement for SPR system would successfully expand the installed base of our SPR system and increase recurring revenue from sales of DNA chips and that there would be no negative impact on our existing customer base or revenue stream. We also cannot assure you that our HPV-DNA chips, or any new DNA chips that we may develop in the future, will generate adequate revenue to offset our investments and costs in acquiring, developing and marketing our SPR system and DNA chips. If there is insufficient demand for our DNA chips, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, any announcement of price change, new products, services or enhancements by our competitors may cause our customers to cancel or postpone purchasing decisions for our products. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks, our business may be materially and adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents We derive substantially all of our revenues from sales of our ECLIA reagent kits and FISH probes. A reduction in, or a failure to increase, the revenues of our ECLIA reagent kits and FISH probes would cause our revenues to decline and could materially harm our business. We derive substantially all of our revenues from sales of our ECLIA reagent kits and FISH probes. Sales of our ECLIA reagent kits and FISH probes accounted for 67%, 70% and 98% of our total revenues for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. We expect sales of our ECLIA reagent kits and FISH probes to continue to comprise substantially all of our revenues until we start to generate substantial revenue from our SPR business, which we do not expect to occur in 2009, and will continue to comprise a substantial portion of our revenues thereafter. Therefore, a reduction in, or our failure to increase, revenues from sales of our ECLIA reagent kits and FISH probes, could materially harm our business, results of operations and prospects. Our ECLIA customers, mainly distributors, have reduced their inventory level in recent months in anticipation of price reduction on our ECLIA reagent kits due to increasing market competition and we reduced the selling price of our ECLIA reagent kits in September 2009 in order to maintain our competitiveness. The reduction in orders for our ECLIA reagent kits and their selling prices have negatively affected our revenues from ECLIA business and such negative impact may continue. While we have adopted, and will continue to adopt, measures to increase the sales of our ECLIA reagent kits, we cannot assure you that these measures will be effective or that our revenues from sales of ECLIA reagent kits will not decline further. While we have not experienced similar reduction in orders and prices of our FISH probes, such reduction could occur at any time in the future, which would cause our revenues from the FISH business to decline. If we fail to successfully address the decline in the sales of our ECLIA reagent kits or experience decline in the sales of our FISH probes, our revenues may decline significantly and our business and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. Current global economic slowdown and crisis in the global financial market have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, our business, financial condition and results of operations. The current global economic slowdown and turmoil in the global financial markets have resulted in a general credit crunch, an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence and increased market volatility, which have negatively impacted our business. We are unable to predict how long the economic downturn will last. A continuing economic downturn may continue to adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including: • Greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable. Many of the end-users of our products are state- owned or controlled hospitals; any changes in such governments’ policies concerning the authorization or funding of payments for capital expenditures could lengthen the cash collection cycle of our distributors, which may thereby cause our liquidity to deteriorate if our distributors are unable to pay us on time. Additionally, sales made to our distributors or other customers whose financial resources may be subject to rapid decline, could expose us to losing sales, delaying revenue recognition or accepting greater collection risks due to credit quality issues. • Greater difficulty in obtaining purchased goods and services. We expect that many of our suppliers will face the same or more challenging circumstances as we face in the current economic downturn, which could result in an adverse effect on our cash flows and liquidity. Some suppliers or vendors could choose to provide supplies or services to us on more stringent payment terms than those currently in place, such as by requiring advance payment or payment upon delivery of such supplies or services. Additionally, some suppliers might experience a worsening financial condition causing them to either withdraw from the market or be unable to meet our expected timing for the receipt of goods ordered from them, either of which condition could adversely affect our ability to serve our customers and lengthen the cycle time for transforming customer orders into cash receipts. Additionally, if it is necessary to seek alternative sources of supply, the effects on our costs, cycle time for cash collections, and customer satisfaction with us are uncertain. • Restructuring and impairment charges. If we are unable to generate the level of revenues, profits, and cash flow contemplated by our business plan, management will be forced to take further action to focus 10 Table of Contents our business activities and align our cost structure with anticipated revenues. These actions, if necessary, could result in restructuring charges and/or asset impairment charges being recognized in the fiscal year ending March 31, 2010 and beyond. We may need to pay significant amount of compensation in connection with the sale of the HIFU business to Chengxuan in December 2008 and may get into lawsuits or arbitration proceedings with Chengxuan if Chengxuan makes a claim against us again and we cannot resolve the dispute through amicable means, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In December 2008, we completed the sale of the HIFU business to Chengxuan International Ltd., or Chengxuan, which is a major shareholder of us and beneficially owned by Mr. Xiaodong Wu, our founder, the chairman of our board of directors and our chief executive officer. In June 2009, we received a letter from Chengxuan in connection with a notice issued by the State Food and Drug Administration, or the SFDA, in April 2009. The notice from the SFDA required the submission of new clinical trial data for the renewal application of the registration certificate for the HIFU therapy system for the further evaluation of the renewal application and did not permit the sale of the HIFU therapy system starting from April 2009 until the approval of the renewal application. In August 2009, we received another letter from Chengxuan which updated their ongoing discussion with the SFDA about the requirements for the new clinical trial data for the HIFU therapy system, Chengxuan’s loss of revenues due to the unexpected prohibition on selling the HIFU therapy system since April 2009 and their indication of seeking maximum compensation of approximately US$15.5 million from us. We have established a special committee comprising two independent directors to evaluate and handle the related matters with Chengxuan and the special committee has engaged legal counsel to advise on Chengxuan’s request for compensation. We recently received another letter from Chengxuan which withdrew their claim of compensation from us. We are not sure if Chengxuan will make a claim of compensation again. If we fail to reach an agreement with Chengxuan for any claim they may make against us in the future, we may get into lawsuits or arbitration proceedings with Chengxuan which could be lengthy and costly and the result of any lawsuit or arbitration will be unpredictable and could negatively impact our business. Any compensation that we may need to pay Chengxuan in the future will negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. The discontinuation of the HIFU business and the acquisition of the SPR business make it difficult to evaluate our business as it is currently operated In December 2008, we completed the sale of the HIFU business to Chengxuan and ceased the HIFU business. As a result, the HIFU business has been accounted for as a discontinued operation in accordance with U.S. GAAP in our financial statements. Also in December 2008, we acquired the SPR technology and related assets, but we do not expect to generate revenue from our SPR business until January 2010. Accordingly, our business as currently conducted is significantly different from our business conducted before December 2008 and our business will continue to evolve as the contribution from our SPR business increases. As such, it may be difficult for you to evaluate our business as it is currently accounted for and operated based on our historical financial information. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitors may take advantage of our proprietary technology and know-how and compete directly against us. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technologies. In China, we own eight invention patents and 10 utility patents relating to our ECLIA system. We have filed patent applications relating to our SPR technologies in China. Invention patents are granted for invention or discovery of any new and useful process or article of manufacture, or any new and useful improvement thereof. Utility patents are granted for invention of a new and practical structure or form, or a combination of both, for an article of manufacture. We applied for three ECLIA technology patents in the United States of which we have been granted one. We have also filed patent applications relating to our FISH technology and SPR technologies in the United States. 11 Table of Contents Due to the different regulatory bodies and varying requirements in the United States, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain patent protection for all or any aspects of our ECLIA, FISH and SPR technology in the United States. The process of seeking patent protection can be lengthy and expensive, and we cannot assure you that our patent applications will result in patents being issued or that our existing or future issued patents will be sufficient to provide us with meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Our patents and patent applications may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented in the future. We cannot assure you that our current or potential competitors, many of which have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, do not have, and will not develop, products that compete directly with our products despite our intellectual property rights. We also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and other non-patentable technology, which we seek to protect through non-disclosure agreements with employees. We cannot assure you that these non-disclosure agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets, proprietary know-how and other non-patentable technology will not otherwise become known to, or be independently developed by, our competitors. Implementation and enforcement of PRC intellectual property-related laws have historically been deficient and ineffective, and are hampered by corruption and local protectionism. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive, and we might need to resort to litigation to enforce or defend patents issued to us or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of others. The experience and capabilities of PRC courts in handling intellectual property litigation varies, and outcomes are unpredictable. Further, such litigation may require significant expenditure of cash and management efforts and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may adversely affect our business, prospects and reputation. We may be exposed to intellectual property infringement and other claims by third parties, which, if successful, could cause us to pay significant damage awards and incur other costs. Our success also depends in large part on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. As litigation becomes more common in China in resolving commercial disputes, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. The validity and scope of claims relating to medical device technology patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings can be costly and time consuming, with unpredictable outcomes, and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. Courts in some jurisdictions in China are inexperienced in these types of cases, and may be influenced by local protectionism. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability, including damage awards, to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, to pay ongoing royalties, or to redesign our products or subject us to injunctions preventing the manufacture and sale of our products. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products until resolution of such litigation. Unauthorized use of our brand name by third parties, and the expenses incurred in developing and preserving the value of our brand name, may adversely affect our business. Our brand name is critical to our success. Unauthorized use of our brand name by third parties may adversely affect our business and reputation, including the perceived quality and reliability of our products. We rely on trademark law, company brand name protection policies and agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect the value of our brand name. Despite our precautions, we cannot assure 12 Table of Contents you that those procedures provide effective prevention for unauthorized third-party use of our brand name. Enforceability, scope and validity of protection of trademarks in the PRC are uncertain and still evolving, and we may not be successful in prosecuting unauthorized third-party use. Future litigation could also result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business strategy to grow through acquisitions of new products or technologies may result in integration costs, failures and dilution to existing stockholders. An important business strategy of ours is to acquire and commercialize medical technologies and products with significant market potential. We continue to seek attractive opportunities to acquire new products or technologies, particularly those that could assist us in advancing our current products, technologies and market penetration, or in expanding our product offerings or technologies. If we decide to acquire another company or its assets in order to obtain its products or technologies, we would face a number of risks including consummating the acquisition on unfavorable terms and not obtaining adequate financing, which may adversely affect our ability to develop new products and services and to compete in our rapidly changing marketplace. These acquisitions could also require that our management develop expertise in new areas, manage new business relationships and trade models, and attract new customers. Successful management and integration of acquisitions are subject to a number of risks, including difficulties in assimilating acquired operations and managing remote operations, potential loss of key employees, diversion of management’s attention from existing business operations, assumption of contingent liabilities and incurrence of potentially significant write-offs, which may adversely affect our business or results of operations. In addition, if we consummate such an acquisition through an exchange of our securities, our existing stockholders could suffer dilution. Rapid growth and a rapidly changing operating environment may strain our limited resources. Our growth strategy includes our efforts to build our brand, develop new products, increase the installed base of our ECLIA systems by targeting small to medium-sized hospitals and accelerate market acceptance of our FISH probes, SPR system and HPV-DNA chips in large hospitals. This growth strategy requires significant capital resources, and we may not generate an adequate return on our investment. Our growth may involve the acquisition of new technologies, businesses, products or services, the creation of strategic alliances in areas in which we do not currently operate or the expansion of our distributor network and direct sales force. This could require our management to develop expertise in new areas, manage new business relationships and attract new types of customers. We may also experience difficulties integrating these acquired businesses, products or services into our existing businesses and operations. The success of our growth strategy also depends in part on our ability to utilize our financial, operational and management resources and to attract, train, motivate and manage an increasing number of employees. The success of our growth strategy depends on a number of internal and external factors, such as: • the growth of the market for medical devices and supplies in China; • increase customer awareness and acceptance of our products; • continued enhancement of our research and development capabilities; • development of new ECLIA reagent kits, FISH probes and DNA chips to expand the applications of our ECLIA analyzers, FISH imaging analyzers and SPR systems; and • competition from other companies that offer IVD products in China. Many of these factors are beyond our control and we may not be able to implement our growth strategy successfully or manage our expansion effectively. 13 Table of Contents We have a major shareholder that could exert substantial influence over our business, and its interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. Currently, Chengxuan, which is beneficially owned by Mr. Xiaodong Wu, our founder, the chairman of our board of directors and our chief executive officer, and its affiliated entities beneficially own approximately 23% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Chengxuan could exert substantial influence over matters such as electing directors and approving material mergers, acquisitions or other business combination transactions. The interests of Chengxuan may differ from the interests of our other shareholders. In addition, the concentration of ownership in Chengxuan may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. In cases where the interests of our significant shareholders are aligned and they vote together, these shareholders will also have the power to prevent or cause a change in control. In addition, Chengxuan could divert business opportunities from us to themselves or others. If we grant additional share options, restricted shares or other share-based compensation in the future, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. We adopted a stock option plan in 2005. As of the date of this annual report, we have granted options to purchase 1,550,000 of our ordinary shares and 5,480,000 restricted shares under our 2005 stock option plan, as amended and restated. We account for share-based compensation in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, or SFAS No. 123R, which requires a company to measure the fair value of share options and other share-based compensation based on the fair value of equity-classified awards on the date of the grant, with the related compensation expense recognized generally over the period in which the recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the equity award. If we grant additional options, restricted shares or other equity incentives to our employees in the future, we could incur significant compensation expenses which could materially reduce our net income, and your investment in our ADSs could be significantly diluted. We are highly dependent on senior management and key research and development personnel. We are highly dependent on our senior management to manage our businesses and operations and our key research and development personnel for the development of new technologies and applications and the enhancement of our existing products. In particular, we rely substantially on our chairman and chief executive officer, Mr. Xiaodong Wu, to manage our operations. We also depend on our key research personnel. In addition, we also rely on customer service personnel for the installation and support of our products and on marketing and sales personnel, engineers and other personnel with technical and industry knowledge to market, sell, install and service our products. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our senior management or key personnel. The loss of any of our senior management or key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Competition for senior management and research and development personnel is intense, and the pool of suitable candidates is limited. We may be unable to locate a suitable replacement for any senior management or key research and development personnel that we lose. In addition, if any member of our senior management or key research and development personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, they may compete with us for customers, business partners and other key professionals and staff members of our company. Although each of our senior management and key research and development personnel has signed a confidentiality and non-competition agreement in connection with his employment with us, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully enforce these provisions in the event of a dispute between us and any member of our senior management or key research and development personnel. We compete for qualified personnel with other medical technology companies, medical device and supplies manufacturers, universities and research institutions. Intense competition for these personnel could cause our compensation costs to increase significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our future success and ability to grow our business will depend in part on the continued service of 14 Table of Contents these individuals and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional qualified personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, we may be unable to meet our business and financial goals. Allegations of irregularities or improper conduct of our management, whether true or false, may cause us to undertake internal investigations and may cause government agencies to initiate investigations against us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and reputation and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our audit committee received an anonymous letter, in which allegations of irregularities and improper conduct were made against our senior management in connection with our acquisitions of the FISH business and the SPR technology and related assets, our disposal of the HIFU business, our revenues as well as our relationships with stock analysts. Our audit committee, consisting of three independent directors, initiated an independent internal investigation into the allegations and engaged an independent law firm as well as independent forensic accountants to assist the audit committee to carry out the independent internal investigation in April 2009. The investigation covered not only the entire senior management team but also employees from various key departments of all of our operating subsidiaries. Our senior management and other relevant employees fully cooperated with the independent law firm and forensic accountants in the course of the investigation. The independent law firm and forensic accountants have substantially completed their investigative work and have reported to the audit committee that the investigation has not identified evidence to support the allegations made in the anonymous letter. Our senior management team and certain management personnel were required to devote significant time and effort to assist with the investigation and therefore had less time to spend on our operations, which we believe had contributed to the decline in our sales and the promotion of our SPR system during the course of the investigation. The costs of the independent internal investigation have also increased our general and administrative expenses substantially for the quarter ended June 30, 2009 and the quarter ended September 30, 2009. We cannot assure you that similar allegations of irregularities or improper conduct of our management will not occur in the future. If such allegations are made, we may need to undertake similar internal investigations. In addition, the allegations we have received and any future allegations of similar nature may cause government agencies that have supervisory power or regulatory authority over us to initiate investigations against us. Any of these investigations could be costly and time-consuming and may divert significant amount of our management attention and resources. Therefore, any allegation of irregularity or improper conduct of our management, whether true or false, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and reputation and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We need to expand our existing sales force and distribution network to maintain and grow our business and revenues. If we fail to expand and maintain an effective sales force or successfully develop our relationship with distributors, our business, prospects and brand may be materially and adversely affected. We currently market and sell substantially all of our ECLIA products to third-party distributors, while our FISH probes, SPR system and HPV-DNA chips are promoted, marketed or sold solely through our own direct sales force. As part of our growth plan, we intend to increase the number of distributors we utilize to distribute our ECLIA products and strengthen and grow our direct sales force targeting large hospitals to sell our FISH probes, SPR system and HPV-DNA chips. We have limited experience in managing a large sales force and distributor network. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain an effective sales force or successfully maintain our relationships with third-party distributors. If we fail to do any one of those, our sales could fail to grow or could even decline, and our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected. The expansion of our sales force and distribution network is also likely to require a significant investment of financial resources and management efforts, and the benefits, if any, which we gain from such expansion may not be sufficient to generate an adequate return on our investment. 15 Table of Contents If we fail to effectively manage our distribution network, our business, prospects and brand may be materially affected by actions taken by our distributors. We have a limited ability to manage the activities of our third-party distributors, who are independent from us. Our distributors could take one or more of the following actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and brand: • sell products that compete with our products in breach of their non-competition agreements with us; • fail to adequately promote our products; • fail to provide proper service to our end-users; or • violate the anti-corruption laws that apply to us in China or elsewhere. Failure to adequately manage our distribution network or the non-compliance of our distributors with their obligations under distribution agreements with us could harm our corporate image among end users of our products and disrupt our sales, resulting in a failure to meet our sales goals. The PRC government has increased its anti-bribery efforts in the healthcare sector to reduce improper payments received by hospital administrators and doctors in connection with the purchase of pharmaceutical products and medical devices. To our knowledge, none of our distributors engages in corrupt practices. However, our distributors may violate these laws or otherwise engage in illegal practices with respect to their sales or marketing of our products. A significant interruption in supply could prevent or limit our ability to provide our products to customers on a timely basis. We purchase all our materials and major components from third-party suppliers and assemble our products in-house. Currently, we do not have any material long-term supply contracts with our suppliers. We, however, have not experienced any significant interruption of supplies in the past. Our purchases are made on a purchase order basis. If the supply of certain materials, components or services is interrupted, our own manufacturing process would be delayed. We may be unable to secure alternative sources of supply in a timely and cost-effective manner. We purchase the components of our ECLIA analyzer, FISH imaging analyzer and SPR system from various domestic and international suppliers. The raw materials for our ECLIA reagent kits, FISH probes and HPV-DNA chips are also supplied by various domestic and international vendors. The failure of any of these suppliers to provide materials to us, particularly if we are unable to obtain materials and major components from alternative sources on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms, could impair our ability to manufacture our products or increase our costs. We also plan to further increase the production and sales of our products in the future. If we are unable to obtain required materials and components that meet our production standards in sufficient quantities or at acceptable cost, we will be unable to increase our production and sales as planned. Failure to obtain adequate supplies of materials, components or services in a timely and cost-effective manner could delay our delivery to our customers. This delay could harm our reputation, cause us to lose sales, and force us to use more expensive sources of supply, which could significantly increase our production costs and harm our operating results. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our costs could substantially increase if we experience a significant number of warranty claims. We generally provide 12-month product warranties against technical defects of our ECLIA analyzer, FISH imaging analyzer and SPR system. Our product warranty requires us to repair defects arising from product design and production process and if necessary, replace defective components. Historically, we have received a limited number of warranty claims for our ECLIA analyzer. The costs associated with our warranty claims have historically been relatively low. Thus, we generally do not accrue any liability for potential warranty claims at the time of sales, but rather at the time claims are actually made. As we only began selling the FISH imaging analyzer in June 2007, we currently only have a short period of historical data on the warranty claims for this 16 Table of Contents product. The fluorescent microscope, CCD camera and imaging analysis software that are integrated into our FISH imaging analyzer are warranted by our component suppliers. As we have not delivered any SPR system yet, we currently have no historical data on the warranty claims for this product. If we experience an increase in warranty claims or if our repair and replacement costs associated with warranty claims increase significantly, we will begin to incur liabilities for potential warranty claims at the time of sale of our products. An increase in the frequency of warranty claims or amount of warranty costs may harm our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations might be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic events. Substantially all of our manufacturing and research and development facilities are located in locations in or within proximity to Beijing, China. We do not maintain back-up facilities, so we depend on our manufacturing and other facilities for the continued operation of our business. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events, including power interruptions, water shortages, storms, fires, earthquakes, terrorist attacks and wars could disrupt our operations. We might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions and our operations and financial results might be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, any such event could delay our research and development programs. If we are unable to successfully operate and manage our manufacturing operations, we may experience a decrease in revenues and gross margin. As we ramp up our manufacturing operations to accommodate our planned growth, we may encounter difficulties associated with increasing production scale, including shortages of qualified personnel to operate our equipment, assemble our products or manage manufacturing operations, as well as shortages of key raw materials or components for our products. In addition, we may also experience difficulties in producing sufficient quantities of products or in achieving desired product quality. If we are unable to successfully operate and manage our manufacturing operations to meet our needs, we may not be able to provide our customers with the quantity or quality of products they require in a timely manner. This could cause us to lose customers and result in reduced revenues and gross margin. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could cause our ADS price to decline. Our revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter depending upon numerous factors. Factors that may affect the fluctuation of our quarterly operating results include changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors, the length of our sales cycle, the timing and market acceptance of new product introductions and product enhancements by us or our competitors, customer order deferrals in anticipation of new or enhanced products offered by us or our competitors, the loss of key sales personnel or distributors, the commencement of any internal investigation, changes in government policies or regulations and a downturn in general economic conditions in China. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and you should not rely on our results of operations for prior quarters as an indication of our results in any future period. As our revenues vary significantly from quarter to quarter, our business is difficult to predict and manage, and our quarterly results could fall below investor expectations, which could cause our ADS price to decline. We are subject to product liability exposure and have limited insurance coverage. Our products are medical devices and we are exposed to potential product liability claims in the event that the use of our products causes or is alleged to have caused personal injuries or other adverse effects. A successful product liability claim against us could require us to pay substantial damages. Product liability claims against us, whether or not successful, are costly and time-consuming to defend. Also, in the event that our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign such products. We do not have any product liability insurance to cover potential product liability arising from the use of our products. In addition, as the insurance 17 Table of Contents industry in China is still in an early stage of development, product liability insurance available in China offers limited coverage compared to coverage offered in many other countries. To date, we have not been subject to any product liability claim, but we cannot assure you that such claim will not be brought against us in the future. A product liability claim, with or without merit, could result in significant adverse publicity against us, and could have a material adverse effect on the marketability of our products and our reputation, which in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we do not have any business interruption insurance coverage for our operations. Any business disruption or natural disaster could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Our future capital needs are uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future. We may require additional cash resources in the future due to: • changed business conditions or other future developments; • the receipt of, and the time and expenses required to obtain and maintain, regulatory clearances and approvals; • the resources we devote to developing, marketing and producing our products; • our ability to identify and our desire or need to pursue acquisitions or other investments; and • the extent to which our products generate market acceptance and demand. We cannot assure you that our revenues will be sufficient to meet our operational needs and capital requirements in the future. In addition, we cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our future capital needs and other business reasons could require us to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. In the past, we have not encountered difficulties in obtaining financing. If a poll is not demanded at our shareholder meeting, voting will be by show of hands and shares will not be proportionately represented. Shareholder resolutions may be passed without the presence of the majority of our shareholders in person or by proxy. Voting at any of our shareholder meetings is by show of hands unless a poll is demanded. A poll may be demanded by the chairman of our board of directors or by any shareholder present in person or by proxy. If a poll is demanded, each shareholder present in person or by proxy will have one vote for each ordinary share registered in his name. If a poll is not demanded, voting will be by show of hands and each shareholder present in person or by proxy will have one vote regardless of the number of shares registered in his name. In the absence of a poll, shares will therefore not be proportionately represented. In addition, the quorum required for our shareholder meetings consists of shareholders who hold at least one-third of our ordinary shares being present at a meeting in person or by proxy. Therefore, subject to the requisite majorities, shareholder resolutions may be passed at our shareholder meetings without the presence of the majority of our shareholders in person or by proxy. Our earnings could be adversely affected if we recognize impairment losses on goodwill and other intangible assets relating to our acquisitions of the ECLIA, FISH and SPR technologies and BBE business. As a result of our acquisitions of the ECLIA, FISH and SPR technologies and BBE business in August 2004, March 2007, December 2008 and January 2008, respectively, we have recorded goodwill and other intangible assets. Our intangible assets, other than goodwill, are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives, and are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an intangible asset may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment by us annually as of 18 Table of Contents year end or more frequently if an event or a circumstance indicates that goodwill might be impaired. Examples of such events or circumstances include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal or business climate, an adverse regulatory action or unanticipated competition. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Critical Accounting Policies”. In the future, we could recognize impairment losses on goodwill and other intangible assets and that impairment could result in a charge to our reported results of operations. Risks Related to Our Industry New product development in the medical device and supply industry is both costly and labor-intensive and has a very low rate of successful commercialization. Our success will depend in part on our ability to enhance our existing products and technologies and to develop and acquire new products or technologies. The development process for medical technology is complex and uncertain, as well as time-consuming and costly. Product development requires the accurate assessment of technological and market trends as well as precise technological execution. We cannot assure you that: • our product or technology development will be successfully completed; • necessary regulatory clearances or approvals will be granted by the SFDA or other regulatory bodies for the commercialization and marketing of any new products or technologies as required on a timely basis or at all; or • any product or technology we develop can be commercialized or will achieve market acceptance. Also, we may be unable to locate suitable products or technologies to acquire or acquire such products or technologies on commercially reasonable terms. Failure to develop, acquire, obtain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for the commercialization of new products and technologies, or successfully commercialize or market potential new products or technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. In order to manufacture and market our products, we are required to obtain various authorizations from governmental regulatory authorities in China and other countries. If we fail to obtain clearances or approvals in a timely fashion, our business may be significantly affected. The sale and marketing of our medical device products are subject to regulation in China and other countries where we plan to expand our product distribution. We are required to obtain registrations with the SFDA and the regulators administering the approval in countries where we plan to export. The process for obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals can be lengthy and expensive, and the results are unpredictable. In addition, the relevant regulatory authorities may introduce additional requirements or procedures that have the effect of delaying or prolonging the regulatory clearance or approval for our existing or new products. If we are unable to obtain clearances or approvals needed to market existing or new products, or obtain such clearances or approvals in a timely fashion, our business could be significantly disrupted, and sales and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. We need the SFDA approval for our ECLIA analyzer before we may sell this product. The SFDA approval we have obtained for our ECLIA analyzer will expire in July 2012, and we will need to renew this approval once it expires. We are also required to obtain a production permit from the provincial level food and drug administration before commencing the manufacture of our products. Our production permit for the manufacture of our ECLIA analyzer and reagent kits will expire in July 2010 and we will need to renew the production permit once it expires. Our production permit for the manufacture of our FISH probes, SPR system and DNA chips will expire in May 2011 and we will need to renew the production permit once it expires. Renewing our registration certificates and production permit entails submission of various information and the review of that submission by the applicable regulatory authorities. We do not foresee any significant difficulties in obtaining such renewal. But if we fail to obtain such renewal in a timely fashion, our business may be adversely affected. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation”. 19 Table of Contents In April 2007, the SFDA announced a new regulation that became effective on June 1, 2007. Reagent kits used for IVD testing are divided into three different categories, Class I, Class II and Class III, depending on the degree of risk associated with each reagent kit. Our ECLIA reagent kits, FISH probes and DNA chips are classified as Class III and they therefore are subject to all regulatory control governing Class III category. We are required to obtain a registration certificate for each reagent kit prior to selling that reagent kit for clinical use. A reagent kit that is used for research purpose only, however, is exempt from registration and/or approval. A reagent kit intended for research use only must comply with the labeling requirements that present the statement: “For research use only. Not for use in diagnostic procedures” on the package. Of the 75 ECLIA reagent kits and 37 FISH probes that we market, 62 ECLIA reagent kits and 14 FISH probes are covered by registration certificates. Of the 13 ECLIA reagent kits and 23 FISH probes we currently sell for research use only, we have submitted registration applications for all of them. We expect to start selling our HPV-DNA chips for research purpose soon and we are in the process of applying for the registration certificate for our HPV-DNA chips. We intend to apply for registration certificates for all of our ECLIA reagent kits, FISH probes and DNA chips, but we may not succeed in obtaining registration certificates for all these ECLIA reagent kits, FISH probes and DNA chips or for any ECLIA reagent kits, FISH probes or DNA chips that we develop in the future. Before receiving the necessary registration certificate, these ECLIA reagent kits, FISH probes and DNA chips can be sold for research only. Thus, this may delay or limit growth in sales of our ECLIA reagent kits, FISH probes and DNA chips. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation”. Competition in the markets in which we operate is expected to increase in the future. Our ECLIA system competes with IVD systems and reagent kits offered in the China market by many established international companies, including Abbott Diagnostics, Siemens Healthcare, Beckman Coulter, PerkinElmer, Johnson & Johnson and Roche Group. There are also a number of China-based manufacturers who also offer luminescence immunoassay systems. Our FISH probes compete with probes offered by Abbott Diagnostics. We are not aware of any China-based manufacturers who offer FISH probes in China. Our SPR system and HPV-DNA chips compete with HPV test products offered by Qiagen, Hologic and certain China-based manufacturers. We are not aware of any China-based manufacturers who offer both an SPR system and HPV-DNA chips in China. Certain of our existing and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, research and development, sales and marketing, personnel resources and other resources than we do. Competition will intensify as other companies enter our markets. Competing companies may succeed in developing products that are more effective or less costly than those that we may offer, and these companies may also be more successful in marketing their products. Competing companies may also introduce competitive pricing measures that adversely affect our sales levels and margins. If we do not adequately address our competitive challenges, we could lose sales and market share and fail to grow our business as planned, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and future growth. In addition, we believe that corrupt practices in the healthcare industry in China still occur. In order to increase sales, certain manufacturers or distributors of medical devices may pay kickbacks to hospital personnel who make procurement decisions. We prohibit our employees from engaging in such practices and, to our knowledge, none of our distributors engages in such practices. However, as competition intensifies in the medical device and supplies industry in China, we may lose sales, customers or contracts to competitors to the extent we or our distributors refuse to engage in such practices. 20 Table of Contents The IVD industry is characterized by constant technological change, and if we fail to respond effectively to technological changes, we could lose our competitive advantage. The IVD industry in which we currently compete are characterized by: • changing technologies; • frequent new product introductions and enhancements; • changing customer needs; and • product obsolescence. To develop new products and designs, we must develop or acquire and use leading technologies in a cost-effective and timely manner and continue to expand our technical and design expertise. Failure to do so could cause us to lose our competitive position and may cause a material adverse effect on our revenues in the future. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political, economic and other policies of the Chinese government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China, and all of our sales are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • the extent of government involvement; • the level of development; • the growth rate; • the control of foreign exchange; • the allocation of resources; • an evolving regulatory system; and • lack of sufficient transparency in the regulatory process. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the Chinese government could materially and adversely affect our business. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the Chinese government to slow the pace of growth of the Chinese economy could result in decreased capital expenditure by hospitals, which in turn could reduce demand for our products. 21 Table of Contents Moreover, the political relationship between the United States, Europe, or other Asian nations and China is subject to sudden fluctuation and periodic tension. Changes in political conditions in China and changes in the state of foreign relations are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations or cause our services to become less attractive. This could lead to a decline in our profitability. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on overall economic growth and the level of healthcare investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Future changes in laws, regulations or enforcement policies in China could adversely affect our business. Laws, regulations or enforcement policies in China, including those regulating medical devices and supplies, are evolving and subject to future change. For example, under a regulation enacted by the SFDA in September 2002 and was renewed in April 2007, reagent kits are required to be registered with the SFDA and are subject to regulatory controls. As of August 31, 2009, we have obtained the SFDA registrations for 62 ECLIA reagent kits and 14 FISH probes we sell. We are in the process of obtaining the required registrations for the 13 ECLIA reagent kits and 23 FISH probes that are currently sold with research labels. Moreover, in October 2004, the SFDA imposed certain good manufacturing practice, or GMP, requirements for ECLIA reagent kits. As a result, all manufacturers of ECLIA reagent kits were obligated to meet GMP standards by January 1, 2006. We are currently in compliance with such GMP requirements and obtained GMP certification for our ECLIA reagent kits in November 2005. The GMP certification is valid until October 2010. In 2007, the SFDA imposed certain quality control system assessment requirements for certain reagent products, covering our FISH probes and HPV-DNA chips. We met such requirements for FISH probes and HPV-DNA chips, respectively in September 2009. Future changes in laws, regulations or administrative interpretations, or stricter enforcement policies by the Chinese government, could impose more stringent requirements on us, including fines or other penalties. Changes in applicable laws and regulations may also increase our operating costs. Compliance with such requirements could impose substantial additional costs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These changes may relax some requirements, which could be beneficial to our competitors or could lower market entry barriers and increase competition. Further, regulatory agencies in China may periodically, and sometimes abruptly, change their enforcement practice. Therefore, prior enforcement activity, or lack of enforcement activity, is not necessarily predictive of future actions. Any enforcement actions against us could have a material and adverse effect on us and the market price of our ADSs. In addition, any litigation or governmental investigation or enforcement proceedings in China may be protracted and may result in substantial cost and diversion of resources and management attention, negative publicity, damage to our reputation and decline in the price of our ADSs. We may not be able to cause our subsidiaries to distribute sufficient amount of dividends to us to satisfy our cash needs. We are a holding company and have historically relied on proceeds from equity and debt financings as well as dividends paid by our wholly owned operating subsidiaries, YDME Beijing, Beijing GP, and BBE, for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, service any debt we may incur and pay our operating expenses. In the event equity and debt financings are not available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, we may need to cause our wholly owned subsidiaries to pay dividends to us for our cash needs. The payment of dividends in China is subject to limitations. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. YDME Beijing, Beijing GP and BBE are also required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its general reserves until the reserves reach 50% of the subsidiaries’ own registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash 22 Table of Contents dividends. In addition, if these three PRC operating subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Therefore, we may not be able to receive sufficient amount of dividends from our subsidiaries to satisfy our cash needs, and if such situation arises, we will not have the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service our debt or pay our operating expenses. See “—If we receive dividends from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC, such dividends may be subject to PRC withholding tax.” Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. We receive all of our revenues in Renminbi, which currently is not a freely convertible currency. A portion of our revenues may be converted into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations, including, among others, payment of dividends declared, if any, in respect of our ordinary shares. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, YDME Beijing, Beijing GP and BBE are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not take future measures to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. All our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to obtain foreign exchange is subject to significant foreign exchange controls and, in the case of amounts under the capital account, requires the approval of and/or registration with PRC government authorities, including the SAFE. In particular, if any of these subsidiaries borrow foreign currency loans from us or other foreign lenders, they must do so within approved limits that satisfy their approval documentation and PRC debt to equity ratio requirements. Further, such loans must be registered with the SAFE. If we finance any of these subsidiaries by means of additional capital contributions, the amount of these capital contributions must first be approved by the relevant government approval authority. These limitations could affect the ability of these subsidiaries to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, has historically been set by the People’s Bank of China. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a band against a basket of certain foreign currencies, determined by the People’s Bank of China, against which it can rise or fall by as much as 0.3% each day. This change in policy resulted in an approximately 21% appreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar between July 21, 2005 and September 25, 2009. Since the adoption of this new policy, the value of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar has fluctuated on a daily basis within narrow ranges, but overall has further strengthened against the U.S. dollar. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to further liberalize its currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. As we import certain materials and supplies for ECLIA reagent kits and FISH probes from the United States and some European countries, fluctuations in the value of the Renminbi against the currencies of those countries may increase the cost of our ECLIA reagent kits and FISH probes. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we received from our initial public offering, our 3.5% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due November 2011, our 4.0% Convertible Senior Notes due August 2013 and the concurrent note offerings into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. 23 Table of Contents The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments or the financial incentives currently available to us in PRC could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. On March 16, 2007, the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, was enacted, and became effective on January 1, 2008. The EIT Law adopts a uniform tax rate of 25% for all enterprises (including foreign-invested enterprises) and eliminates most of the tax exemptions, reductions and preferential treatments available under the previous tax laws and regulations. Under the EIT Law, enterprises that were established and already enjoyed preferential tax treatments before March 16, 2007 will continue to enjoy (i) in the case of preferential tax rates, continue to enjoy the tax rates which will be gradually increased to the new tax rates within five years from January 1, 2008 or (ii) in the case of preferential tax exemption or reduction for a specified term, continue to enjoy the preferential tax holiday until the expiration of such term. Specifically, an enterprise that was enjoying tax holidays on January 1, 2008 will continue to enjoy its existing tax holidays, unless such tax holidays did not yet start on January 1, 2008 due to the loss position of the enterprise, in which case such tax holidays shall commence on January 1, 2008. In accordance with a notice issued by the State Council in December 2007 on the implementation of transitional preferential tax treatments, or the Transition Implementation Notice, enterprises that were subject to income tax at the rate of 15% prior to 2008 will be subject to income tax at the rates of 18%, 20%, 22%, 24% and 25% in the years of 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. The EIT Law, however, introduces new tax incentives, subject to various qualification criteria. The EIT Law and its implementing rules permit qualified “high and new technology enterprises” to enjoy a reduced 15% EIT rate. The recently published qualification criteria are significantly higher than those prescribed by the old tax rules under which we had been granted preferential treatment. YDME Beijing and BBE obtained the qualification certificates of “high and new technology enterprises” in 2008 with a validity period of three years starting from 2008 to 2010. However, the continuing qualification of YDME Beijing and BBE as “high and new technology enterprises” for the calendar years of 2009 and 2010 will be subject to annual evaluation by the relevant government authorities in China. In addition, YDME Beijing and BBE will need to apply for a three-year extension upon the expiration of the current qualification certificates if they want to continue to enjoy the 15% reduced rate. We cannot assure you that YDME Beijing and BBE will continue to qualify as “high and new technology enterprises” under the EIT Law, or that the local tax authorities will not, in the future, change their position and revoke any of our past preferential tax treatments. The discontinuation of any preferential tax treatments could materially increase our tax obligations. Beijing GP was previously entitled to an EIT rate of 15% and was entitled to an exemption from EIT from January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2009 and a 50% income tax reduction from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2012. While Beijing GP will be able to enjoy the tax holiday under the EIT Law and the Transition Implementation Notice, its 50% income tax reduction from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2012 will be partially eliminated. Under the EIT Law and the Transition Implementation Notice, Beijing GP’s EIT rates are 0%, 0%, 11%, 12% and 12.5% for the calendar years from 2008 to 2012. While we may apply for qualification of Beijing GP as a “high and new technology enterprise” to reduce our income tax expense, we cannot guarantee that our application will be successful. In addition, the application process could be time-consuming and we will continue to be subject to the higher EIT rate before the application is granted. Any increase in the enterprise income tax rate applicable to us or discontinuation or reduction of any of the preferential tax treatments or financial incentives currently enjoyed by our PRC subsidiaries could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If we receive dividends from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC, such dividends may be subject to PRC withholding tax. The new EIT Law and the implementation regulations for the EIT Law issued by the PRC State Council became effective as of January 1, 2008. The new EIT Law imposes a withholding tax of 10% on dividends 24 Table of Contents distributed by a foreign-invested enterprise to its immediate holding company outside of China, if such immediate holding company is considered as a “non-resident enterprise” without any establishment or place within China or if the received dividends have no connection with the establishment or place of such immediate holding company within China, unless such immediate holding company’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. The Cayman Islands, where we are incorporated, does not have such tax treaty with China. According to the Arrangement Between Mainland China and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion, dividends paid by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its direct holding company in Hong Kong will be subject to withholding tax at a rate of no more than 5% (if the foreign investor owns directly at least 25% of the shares of the foreign-invested enterprise). All of our subsidiaries in China are invested and held by Hong Kong registered entities. Thus, dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries in China may be subject to the 5% withholding tax if we are considered as a “non-resident enterprise” under the EIT Law. If we are required under the EIT Law to pay income tax for any dividends we receive from our subsidiaries, our income tax expenses will be increased and the amount of dividends, if any, we may pay to our shareholders and ADS holders may be materially and adversely affected. We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the EIT Law and be subject to the PRC taxation on our worldwide income. The EIT Law also provides that enterprises established outside of the PRC whose “de facto management bodies” are located in the PRC are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate as to their worldwide income. Under the implementation regulations for the EIT Law issued by the PRC State Council, “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. However, the EIT Law and its implementing rules are relatively new and ambiguous in terms of certain definitions, requirements and detailed procedures, and currently no official interpretation or application of the “resident enterprise” definition is available. Therefore, it is unclear how PRC tax authorities will determine the tax residency of each company based on the facts and circumstances of the specific company. If we are treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income at the 25% uniform tax rate, which could have an impact on our effective tax rate and an adverse effect on our net income and results of operations, although dividends distributed from our PRC subsidiaries to us could be exempt from PRC dividend withholding tax, since such income is exempted under the new EIT Law to a PRC resident recipient. Interest and dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and gain on the sale of our notes, ADSs and ordinary shares may become subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the EIT Law and implementation regulations issued by the State Council, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to interest and dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such interest and dividends have their sources within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of the notes, ADSs or ordinary shares by such investors is also subject to 10% PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. Therefore, if we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” and interest we pay with respect to our notes and dividends we pay with respect to ADSs or ordinary shares, or the gain you may realize from the transfer of our notes, ADSs or ordinary shares are considered as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax. If we are required under the EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on interest or dividends payable to our non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our notes, ADSs or ordinary shares, the value of your investment in our notes, ADSs or ordinary shares may be materially and adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds of our equity or debt offerings to make loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. In utilizing the proceeds of any equity or debt offerings, as an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiaries, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to PRC regulations and approvals. For example, loans by us to our wholly owned subsidiaries in China, each of which is a foreign-invested enterprise, to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange in China, or the SAFE, or its local counterpart. We may also decide to finance our wholly owned subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce in China or its local counterpart. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans or capital contributions by us to our PRC subsidiaries or any of their respective subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to use the proceeds of any equity or debt offerings and to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks of contagious diseases, including swine flu, avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of swine flu, avian flu, SARS or another epidemic or outbreak. During April and May 2009, there have been outbreaks of highly pathogenic swine flu, caused by the H1N1A virus, in certain regions of the world, including parts of Asia. In 2007 and early 2008, there were reports of outbreaks of a highly pathogenic avian flu, caused by the H5N1 virus, in certain regions of Asia and Europe. In 2005 and 2006, there were reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases. An outbreak of avian flu in the human population could result in a widespread health crisis that could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, particularly in Asia. Additionally, any recurrence of SARS, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia, similar to the occurrence in 2003 which affected China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Vietnam and certain other countries, would also have similar adverse effects. These outbreaks of contagious diseases, and other adverse public health developments in China, would have a material adverse effect on our business operations. These could include restrictions on our ability to travel or to ship our products within China, as well as cause temporary closure of our manufacturing facilities. Such closures or travel or shipment restrictions would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of swine flu, avian flu, SARS or any other epidemic. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares and our ADSs Activities in connection with hedging transactions may affect the market price of our ADSs. Activities by investors in our notes, affiliates of the underwriters and others in connection with hedging transactions may affect the market price of our ADSs from time to time. For example, in connection with the settlement of a hedging transaction, the underwriters or their affiliates may purchase ADSs and investors in our convertible notes may sell ADSs, which could temporarily increase or decrease (or delay an increase or decrease in) the market price of our ADSs. In addition, investors in our convertible notes may wish to purchase or sell convertible notes or adjust any hedging transactions from time to time, such that the short position created through the concurrent offering of the purchased ADSs may be larger or smaller than needed. As a result, hedge adjustments may result in the buying or selling of ADSs by investors, affiliates of the underwriters or others, which may affect the market price of our ADSs. 26 Table of Contents Because the purchased ADSs may be considered outstanding for the purpose of computing and reporting our earnings per ADS, the purchased ADSs could decrease our earnings per ADS and potentially the market price of our ADSs. While the ordinary shares underlying the purchased ADSs will be considered issued and outstanding for purposes of Cayman Islands Companies Law, we believe that under U.S. GAAP currently in effect, the purchased ADSs will not be considered outstanding for the purpose of computing earnings per ADS because, pursuant to the ADS issuance and repurchase agreements, among other things, upon conversion, repurchase or payment at maturity of all of the convertible notes, the ADS Purchasers are obligated to deliver to us a number of purchased ADSs, unless earlier delivered pursuant to the ADS issuance and repurchase agreements. If these accounting principles, or our interpretation thereof, were to change in the future, we may become required to treat the purchased ADSs as outstanding for purposes of computing and reporting our earnings per ADS, our earnings per ADS would be reduced and the market price of our ADSs could decrease, possibly significantly. The market price for our ADSs may be volatile. The market price for our ADSs has been, and may continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations. Since August 10, 2005, the intraday sales prices of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Select Market (then called “the Nasdaq National Market”) have ranged from US$11.41 to US$57.50 per ADS, and the closing sale price on September 28, 2009 was US$16.97 per ADS. The price of our ADSs may fluctuate in response to factors including the following: • announcements of technological or competitive developments; • announcements regarding patent litigation or the issuance of patents to us or our competitors; • governmental developments in China, such as changes in fiscal policies or developments relating to the regulatory or health care reimbursement environment, affecting us or our competitors; • announcements of studies and reports relating to the effectiveness or safety of our products or those of our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and changes or revisions of our expected results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other medical technology companies; • addition or departure of our senior management and key research and development personnel; • negative publicity about us or our products or allegation of irregularities or improper conduct of our management, whether true or false; • any litigation, governmental investigation or enforcement proceedings brought against us by authorities and industry regulators in China or elsewhere; • release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; and • sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs, or the perception that such sales might occur. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs will be subject to the risk of volatility and depressed prices of our ADSs. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. In addition, any sales in the public market of ADSs issued upon conversion of the convertible notes could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our ADSs. 27 Table of Contents Future sales of our ordinary shares or ADSs in the public market or the issuance of securities senior to our ordinary shares could adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs and our ability to raise funds in new share offerings. Future sales of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares or ADSs or other equity-related securities in the public market, including sales by any existing shareholders, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our ADSs and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of our ordinary shares or ADSs or the availability of our ordinary shares or ADSs for future sale, will have on the trading price of our ADSs. Holders of ADSs will have fewer rights than holders of ordinary shares and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. As a holder of our ADSs, you will not have the same rights as holders of our ordinary shares, and you may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under the deposit agreement, if the vote is by show of hands, the depositary will vote the deposited securities in accordance with the voting instructions received from a majority of holders of ADSs that provided timely voting instructions. If the vote is by poll, the depositary will vote the deposited securities in accordance with the voting instructions it timely receives from ADS holders. In the event of poll voting, deposited securities for which no instructions are received will not be voted. Under our articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting is seven days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholder meeting. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Although your ADSs will be transferable on the books of the depositary, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. You may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property, in which event you would not receive such distribution. 28 Table of Contents Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to holders of our ADSs in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not make rights available to holders of our ADSs unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings of ADSs. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our articles of association contain provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our holders of our ordinary shares and holders of our ADSs of an opportunity to sell their ordinary shares and ADSs, as applicable, at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADS or otherwise. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors issues preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be adversely affected. We are a Cayman Islands company, and because the rights of shareholders under Cayman Islands law differ from those under United States law, you may have difficulty protecting your shareholder rights. We are an exempted company with limited liability incorporated under Cayman Islands law, and substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. In addition, a majority of our directors and executive officers reside outside the United States, and a substantial portion of their assets is located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon our directors or executive officers, or enforce judgments obtained in the United States courts against our directors or executive officers. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors and us, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States and some states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. In addition, shareholders in Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States and will have no general right under Cayman Islands law to inspect or obtain copies of our list of shareholders or our corporate records. 29 Table of Contents Walkers, our counsel as to Cayman Islands Law, have advised that there is no statutory mechanism by which a judgment obtained in the United States courts can be recognized or enforced in the Cayman Islands. At common law, a foreign judgment which is in personam (a judgment against a person or other legal entity such as a company) may be recognized if: • the judgment debtor was, at the time the foreign proceedings were instituted, present in the foreign country (which could be presence through an agent or representative office); • the judgment debtor was plaintiff, or counter-claimed, in the proceedings in the foreign country; • the judgment debtor, being a defendant in the foreign court, voluntarily submitted to the jurisdiction of that court by participating in the foreign proceedings; or • if the judgment debtor had, before the commencement of the foreign proceedings agreed, in respect of the subject matter of the proceedings, to submit to the jurisdiction of that court or the courts of that country. The Cayman Islands court must also be satisfied that: the judgment is for a fixed sum; the judgment was not obtained by fraud; the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained were not contrary to natural justice and the judgment is final and conclusive on the merits. The usual procedure for enforcement of a foreign judgment is to commence proceedings on the judgment as a common law debt. Walkers has further advised us that an action based on the securities laws of the United States or any state in the United States may not be commenced in the Cayman Islands against us or our directors or officers. In relation to statutory law, an action may only be commenced in a Cayman Islands court in respect of statutes enacted or in force in the Cayman Islands. There is uncertainty regarding whether Cayman Islands courts would: • recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of United States securities laws; and • impose liability against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of United States securities laws. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction of a fixed sum that is not contrary to natural justice or the public policy of the Cayman Islands without retrial on the merit. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests with respect to actions taken by our management, directors or major shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a United States company. We may be considered a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences for U.S. Holders. We do not believe that we are, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a passive foreign investment company (a “PFIC”), and we expect to operate in such a manner so as not to become a PFIC. We must make a separate determination each year as to whether we are a PFIC. As a result, our PFIC status may change. In particular, our PFIC status may be determined in large part based on the market price of our ADSs and the underlying ordinary shares, which is likely to fluctuate (and may fluctuate considerably given that market prices of technology companies have been especially volatile). Accordingly, fluctuations in the market price of the ADSs and the ordinary shares may result in our being a PFIC for any year. Thus, there can be no assurance that we will not be considered a PFIC for our current taxable year or any future taxable year. If we are or become a PFIC, U.S. 30 Table of Contents Holders (as defined in “Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation”) could be subject to additional U.S. federal income taxes on gain recognized with respect to the ADSs or ordinary shares and on certain distributions, plus an interest charge on certain taxes treated as having been deferred under the PFIC rules. Non-corporate U.S. Holders will not be eligible for reduced rates of taxation on any dividends received from us in taxable years beginning prior to January 1, 2011, if we are a PFIC in the taxable year in which such dividends are paid or in the preceding taxable year. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 