ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS WE ARE A NEW COMPANY WITH A LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY. We commenced operations on July 25, 2005 and therefore have a limited operating history. We are subject to the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business, including the risk that we will not achieve our investment objective and that our net asset value could decline substantially. 12 WE OPERATE IN A HIGHLY COMPETITIVE MARKET FOR INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITIES. A number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we plan to make in middle market companies. We compete with other business development companies, public and private funds, commercial and investment banks, commercial financing companies, insurance companies, high yield investors, hedge funds, and, to the extent they provide an alternative form of financing, private equity funds. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act will impose on us as a BDC. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify and make investments that meet our investment objectives. We will not seek to compete primarily based on the interest rates we will offer and we believe that some of our competitors may make loans with interest rates that will be comparable to or lower than the rates we offer. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure. If we match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure, we may experience decreased net interest income and increased risk of credit loss. As a result of operating in such a competitive environment, we may make investments that are on better terms to our portfolio companies than what we may have originally anticipated, which may impact our return on these investments. OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS WILL DEPEND ON OUR ABILITY TO MANAGE FUTURE GROWTH EFFECTIVELY. Our ability to achieve our investment objective will depend on our ability to manage our business, which will depend, in turn, on the ability of the Advisor to identify, invest in and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result largely will be a function of the Advisor's investment process and, in conjunction with the Administrator, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us. The members of the Investment Committee will have substantial responsibilities to other clients of the Advisor's affiliates in addition to their activities on our behalf. The members of the Investment Committee and the investment professionals dedicated primarily to us may also be required to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. These demands on their time may distract them or slow our rate of investment. Any failure to manage our business effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. REGULATIONS GOVERNING OUR OPERATION AS A BDC MAY REDUCE OUR OPERATING FLEXIBILITY. Please refer to the section on "Regulation" on pages 11 and 12 for a discussion of business development company limitations. WE MAY NOT REPLICATE THE SUCCESS OF BLACKROCK'S OR KELSO'S INVESTMENT FUNDS. We are a different vehicle from any investment fund managed by either BlackRock or the Kelso Principals. Our investment strategies differ from those of private funds that are or have been managed by BlackRock, the Kelso Principals or their respective affiliates. To the extent provided by the 1940 Act, we will not invest in any private company in which BlackRock, Kelso, or any of their affiliates, or any of the unregistered investment funds managed by them, holds an existing investment. This may adversely affect the pace at which we make investments. We can provide no assurance that we will replicate the historical or future performance of BlackRock's or Kelso's private investment funds and our investment returns may be substantially lower than the returns achieved by those private funds. As a business development company, we are subject to certain investment restrictions that do not apply to BlackRock's or Kelso's private investment funds. 13 MANY OF OUR PORTFOLIO INVESTMENTS ARE RECORDED AT FAIR VALUE AS DETERMINED IN GOOD FAITH BY OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS. AS A RESULT, THERE WILL BE UNCERTAINTY AS TO THE VALUE OF OUR PORTFOLIO INVESTMENTS. Many of our portfolio investments are in the form of securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. We value these securities at least quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors with the assistance of the Advisor and, to the extent determined by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, one or more independent valuation firms. However, because fair valuations, and particularly fair valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and are often based to a large extent on estimates, comparisons and qualitative evaluations of private information, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been determined if a ready market for these securities existed. This could make it more difficult for investors to accurately value our portfolio investments and could lead to under-valuation or over-valuation of our common shares. THE LACK OF LIQUIDITY IN OUR INVESTMENTS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. We will generally make investments in private companies. Many of these securities will be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded such investments. In addition, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we have material non-public information regarding such portfolio company. IF WE DO NOT ACHIEVE THE PUBLIC MARKET EVENT ON OR PRIOR TO THE FIFTH ANNIVERSARY OF OUR INCEPTION, WE COULD BE SUBJECT TO TERMINATION ON THE TENTH ANNIVERSARY OF OUR INCEPTION, WHICH COULD CAUSE SHAREHOLDERS TO INCUR A LOSS OR A LOWER RETURN ON THEIR INVESTMENT. We expect to seek to complete an initial public offering of our common shares registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act") and list such common shares on a national securities exchange (collectively, the "Public Market Event") on or prior to the fifth anniversary of our inception. There can be no assurance that we will achieve this objective. In the event we fail to effect the Public Market Event, our Articles of Incorporation provide that we could be subject to termination on the tenth anniversary of our inception and accordingly would be required to liquidate our portfolio of investments, wind up our business and affairs, and be dissolved. The proceeds from the liquidation of our portfolio, net of costs and expenses of winding up our business and affairs, would be distributed to our shareholders, which could result in shareholders receiving less than their original investment or less than the most recent net asset value of our common shares at the time. As a result, shareholders could incur a loss or a lower return on their investment. WE MAY BORROW MONEY, WHICH MAY MAGNIFY THE POTENTIAL FOR GAIN OR LOSS ON AMOUNTS INVESTED AND MAY INCREASE THE RISK OF INVESTING WITH US. We may borrow money or issue debt securities or preferred stock to leverage our capital structure. If we do so: o Our common shares will be exposed to incremental risk of loss. In these circumstances, a decrease in the value of our investments would have a greater negative impact on the value of our common shares than if we did not use leverage. o Adverse changes in interest rates could reduce or eliminate the incremental income we expect to make with the proceeds of any leverage. o Our ability to pay dividends on our common shares will be restricted if our asset coverage ratio is not at least 200% and any amounts used to service indebtedness or preferred stock would not be available for such dividends. o It is likely that such securities will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. o We, and indirectly our shareholders, will bear the cost of issuing and paying interest or dividends on such securities. 14 o Any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common shares. WE MAKE LOANS TO AND INVEST IN PRIVATE MIDDLE-MARKET COMPANIES, WHICH MAY DEFAULT ON THEIR LOANS, THEREBY REDUCING OR ELIMINATING THE RETURN ON OUR INVESTMENTS. Investment in private middle-market companies involves a number of significant risks, including: o These companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral. o They typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors' actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns. o They are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on the portfolio company and, in turn, on us. o They generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. o They may cease to be treated as private companies for purposes of the regulatory restrictions applicable to us, in which case we may not be able to invest additional amounts in them. o Little public information exists about these companies. The greater difficulty in making a fully informed investment decision raises the risk of misjudging the credit quality of the company, and we may lose money on our investments. ECONOMIC DOWNTURNS OR RECESSIONS COULD IMPAIR OUR PORTFOLIO COMPANIES' ABILITY TO REPAY OUR LOANS, HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND REDUCE OUR VOLUME OF NEW LOANS. Many of our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay loans during these periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets are likely to increase and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease during these periods. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase funding costs, limit access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and harm our operating results. A portfolio company's failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize the portfolio company's ability to meet its obligations under the debt securities that we hold. We may need to incur additional expenses to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, even though we may have structured our interest as senior debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided significant managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. WE ARE EXPOSED TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH CHANGES IN INTEREST RATES. Because a substantial portion of our assets will consist of loans and debt securities, the net asset value of our common shares will fluctuate with changes in interest rates, as well as with changes in the prices of the securities we own caused by other factors. These fluctuations are likely to be greater when we are using financial leverage. 15 IF WE FAIL TO QUALIFY AS A REGULATED INVESTMENT COMPANY, WE WILL HAVE TO PAY CORPORATE-LEVEL TAXES ON OUR INCOME AND OUR INCOME AVAILABLE FOR DISTRIBUTION WOULD BE REDUCED. To maintain our qualification as a regulated investment company under the Code, which is required in order for us to distribute our income without tax at the corporate level, we must meet certain income source, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. Satisfying these requirements may require us to take actions we would not otherwise take, such as selling investments at unattractive prices to satisfy diversification, distribution or source of income requirements. In addition, while we are authorized to borrow funds in order to make distributions, under the 1940 Act we are not permitted to make distributions to shareholders while our debt obligations and other senior securities are outstanding unless certain "asset coverage" tests are met. If we fail to qualify as a regulated investment company for any reason and become or remain subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us and our shareholders. WE MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY PAYING OUR REQUIRED DISTRIBUTIONS IF WE RECOGNIZE INCOME BEFORE OR WITHOUT RECEIVING CASH REPRESENTING SUCH INCOME. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount, which may arise if we invest in zero coupon securities, deferred interest securities or certain other securities, or if we receive warrants in connection with the making of a loan or possibly in other circumstances. Such original issue discount, which could but is not expected to be significant relative to our overall investment activities, generally will be included in income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we will not receive in cash. Since in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty making distributions in the amounts necessary to satisfy the requirements for maintaining regulated investment company status and for avoiding income and excise taxes. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times the Advisor would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investment originations to meet these distribution requirements. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify as a regulated investment company and thus be subject to corporate-level income tax. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us and our shareholders. THERE ARE SIGNIFICANT POTENTIAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST THAT COULD IMPACT OUR INVESTMENT RETURNS. The Advisor, its affiliates or their officers and employees serve or may serve as officers, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business or of investment funds managed by affiliates of the Advisor. Accordingly, these individuals may have obligations to investors in those entities or funds, the fulfillment of which might not be in our best interests or the best interests of our shareholders. The Advisor and its affiliates have procedures and policies in place designed to manage potential conflicts of interest that may arise from time to time between the Advisor's fiduciary obligations to us and their similar fiduciary obligations to other clients so that, for example, investment opportunities are allocated in a fair and equitable manner among us and such other clients. An investment opportunity that is suitable for multiple clients of the Advisor's affiliates may not be capable of being shared among some or all of such clients due to the limited scale of the opportunity or other factors, including regulatory restrictions imposed by the 1940 Act. There can be no assurance that the Advisor's or its affiliates' efforts to allocate any particular investment opportunity fairly among all clients for whom such opportunity is appropriate will result in an allocation of all or part of such opportunity to us. Not all conflicts of interest can be expected to be resolved in our favor. Some individuals may be employed both by the Advisor and by another entity that has other clients for whom a particular investment opportunity may be appropriate. When the Advisor can determine the capacity in which a dual employee obtained an investment opportunity, the opportunity will be offered first to the clients of the entity through which the opportunity arose. Where the capacity cannot readily be determined, the Advisor will seek to allocate the opportunity in accordance with the principles articulated above. 16 RESTRICTIONS ON THE ABILITY OF INVESTMENT PROFESSIONALS OF BLACKROCK AND THE KELSO PRINCIPALS TO REFER POTENTIAL INVESTMENTS TO US COULD REDUCE THE VOLUME OF OUR INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITIES. We expect that the Kelso Principals, certain of whom are affiliated with the Advisor but have no individual contractual duty to the Advisor or to us, will be a source of investment opportunities. However, investors should be aware that the Kelso Principals are subject to the terms and conditions of the agreements governing the private investment partnerships managed by Kelso, which include restrictions on the non-Kelso fund activities of Kelso and the Kelso Principals. The primary obligation of the Kelso Principals is to manage Kelso's investment partnerships. For example, these agreements generally require that certain of the Kelso Principals who serve on the Investment Committee in their individual capacities as members of the Advisor devote substantially all of their business time and efforts to the private investment partnerships managed by Kelso, and each of them intends to do so. The Advisor is not subject to these restrictions. In addition, these agreements require that any investment opportunities presented to Kelso or the Kelso Principals that are appropriate to such partnerships be offered to the partnerships. Therefore, although the investment opportunities appropriate for us will generally not be of the type that would be appropriate for the private investment partnerships managed by Kelso, if the Kelso Principals are presented with any opportunities that are appropriate for both us and such partnerships, the Kelso Principals would be obligated to offer the opportunities first to such partnerships and not to us, regardless of the capacity in which they received such opportunity. This may limit the extent to which the Kelso Principals (but not the Advisor, to the extent it is able to identify investment opportunities independently) will be a source of investment transactions for us. BlackRock is not subject to any similar arrangements in favor of its clients other than with respect to mezzanine real estate debt, as to which it is required to bring certain opportunities first to certain private real estate debt funds managed by BlackRock. THE CARRIED INTEREST MAY CREATE AN INCENTIVE FOR THE ADVISOR TO TAKE ACTIONS DETRIMENTAL TO US. The Carried Interest, which is an incentive fee that may be owing to the Advisor or its affiliates from time to time under the investment management agreement, may create an incentive for the Advisor to make investments that are riskier or more speculative than would otherwise be the case. The way in which the amount of the Carried Interest is determined, which is calculated as a percentage of distributions on our common shares, may encourage the Advisor to use leverage in an effort to increase the return on our investments. If the Advisor acquires poorly performing assets with such leverage, the loss to holders of our common shares could be substantial. Finally, because a portion of the Carried Interest is likely to reflect interest and dividend income and is calculated on an accrual basis regardless of whether we have received a cash payment of such interest or dividends, the Advisor might have an incentive to invest in zero coupon or deferred interest securities in circumstances where it would not have done so but for the opportunity to continue to earn Carried Interest even when the issuers thereof would not be able to make cash payments on such securities. The foregoing risks could be increased because the Advisor is not obligated to reimburse us for any Carried Interest received even if we subsequently incur losses or never receive in cash income that was previously accrued. We do not believe the Advisor is susceptible to engaging in these practices, both because excessive risk taking will reduce the likelihood of earning incentive fees over the long term and because of the high standards of fiduciary conduct exhibited by BlackRock and the Kelso Principals in the past. However, our Board of Directors will monitor the investment activities of the Advisor and will be prepared to terminate its services and seek restitution of any harm to us if it believes the Advisor has breached its fiduciary duties in this regard. DUE TO THE LACK OF LIQUIDITY OF OUR COMMON SHARES, YOU MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SELL YOUR INVESTMENT IN US IF THE NEED ARISES OR YOU MAY REALIZE SIGNIFICANTLY LESS FROM A SALE THAN OUR NET ASSET VALUE PER SHARE. There is currently no public trading market for our common shares. Our common shares are not freely transferable and shareholders do not have the right to redeem their common shares. The lack of liquidity of our common shares may make it difficult for you to sell your shares if the need arises. In addition, if you need to dispose of your shares, you may realize significantly less than our net asset value per share. Our common shares should be regarded as a long-term investment. 17 IF THE INDUSTRY SECTORS IN WHICH OUR PORTFOLIO IS CURRENTLY CONCENTRATED EXPERIENCE ADVERSE ECONOMIC CONDITIONS, OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE NEGATIVELY AFFECTED. We may, from time to time, invest a substantial portion of our assets in the securities of issuers in any single industry or sector of the economy or in only a few issuers. We cannot predict the industries or sectors in which our investment strategy may cause us to concentrate and cannot predict the level of our diversification among issuers, although over time we anticipate investing in a minimum of 15 to 20 issuers to ensure we satisfy diversification requirements for qualification as a RIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Concentration of our assets in an industry or sector may present more risks than if we were broadly diversified over numerous industries and sectors of the economy. A downturn in an industry or sector in which we are concentrated would have a larger impact on us than on a company that does not concentrate in industry or sector. As a result of investing a greater portion of our assets in the securities of a smaller number of issuers, we are classified as a non-diversified company under the 1940 Act. We may be more vulnerable to events affecting a single issuer or industry and therefore subject to greater volatility than a company whose investments are more broadly diversified. Accordingly, an investment in us may present greater risk than an investment in a diversified company. Furthermore, the Advisor has not made and does not intend to make any determination as to the allocation of assets among different classes of securities. At any point in time we may be highly concentrated in a single type of asset, such as junior unsecured loans or distressed debt. Consequently, events which affect a particular asset class disproportionately could have an equally disproportionate effect on us. CHANGES IN LAWS OR REGULATIONS GOVERNING OUR OPERATIONS, OR CHANGES IN THE INTERPRETATION THEREOF, AND ANY FAILURE BY US TO COMPLY WITH LAWS OR REGULATIONS GOVERNING OUR OPERATIONS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. We and our portfolio companies are subject to laws and regulations at the local, state and federal level. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Any change in these laws or regulations, or any failure to comply with them by us or our portfolio companies, could have a material adverse affect on our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 