Item 1A. Risk Factors THE FOLLOWING RISK FACTORS SHOULD BE CONSIDERED CAREFULLY IN EVALUATING THE COMPANY, ITS BUSINESS CONDITION AND PROSPECTS, FINANCIAL AND OTHERWISE. THESE RISK FACTORS ARE NOT NECESSARILY EXHAUSTIVE AND ADDITIONAL RISK FACTORS, IF ANY, MAY BE MATERIAL OR HAVE SIGNIFICANCE TO AN INDIVIDUAL INVESTOR. MANY INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITIES INVOLVE RISK FACTORS OR A RISK OF LOSS AND THE EXISTENCE OF BOTH NORMAL AND EXTRAORDINARY RISKS. Any downgrading of India’s debt rating by an international rating agency, or an increase in interest rates in India, could have a negative impact on our ability to borrow in India. As we scale our operations we expect to increase the amount of money we borrow for working capital and the leasing of equipment. Any adverse revisions to India’s credit ratings for domestic and international debt by international rating agencies, as well as, an increase in Indian interest rates may adversely impact our ability to finance growth through debt and could lead to a tightening of our operating margins, adversely affecting our operating income. Fortunately, most large debt rating agencies, including Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s, consider India’s debt stable. A change in government policy, a downturn in the Indian or Chinese economy, or a natural disaster could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our construction business is dependent on the central government of India, as well as, the Indian state governments for contracts. Their operations and financial results may be affected by changes in the government’s policy toward building infrastructure. In addition, the recent slowdown in the Indian economy has caused a tightening of credit and a slowdown of companies bidding on government contracts. We foresee no immediate changes to government policy or market conditions that would adversely affect our ability to conduct business other than limited access to credit. Government support for infrastructure spending remains strong. The Wall Street Journal of May 31, 2010 reported that India plans to create an $11 billion fund to finance ne w infrastructure projects. Additionally a recent Indian government Economic Survey projected rapid growth for the next several years. The Indian government could curtail the export of iron ore hampering our business. The Indian government currently bans the export of ore that has a Ferrous content of 64% or more, preferring to keep that high grade ore for the production of steel in India. If the Government were to impose a ban on the export of lesser quality ore, we would be forced to service our customers from sources other than India. The Chinese government recently imposed a ban on the import of iron ore with a Ferrous content of 60% by traders in China. This ban does not extend to Chinese steel mills with licenses to import iron ore. We were in the business of exporting ore with Ferrous content between 55% and 58% However, the sudden ban on the import of lower quality ore by China has forced us to look f or customers that are steel mills, which we have done, and shift the business to exporting higher quality ore, which we are now doing. We have shifted our business to exporting ore with Ferrous content between 61% and 63.5%. However, further restrictions on the import of iron ore by the Chinese government could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents Political, economic, social and other factors in India may adversely affect business. Our ability to grow our business may be adversely affected by political, economic, social and religious factors, changes in Indian law or regulations, and the status of India’s relations with other countries. In addition, the economy of India may differ favorably or unfavorably from the U.S. economy in such things as the rate of growth of gross domestic product, the inflation rate, capital reinvestment, resource self-sufficiency, and balance of payments position. Indian government actions in the future could have a significant effect on the Indian economy, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business objectives. Since mid-1991, the Indian government has committed itself to implementing an economic structural reform program with the object of liberalizing India’s exchange and trade policies, reducing the fiscal deficit, controlling inflation, promoting a sound monetary policy, reforming the financial sector, and placing greater reliance on market mechanisms to direct economic activity. According to the 2010 World Factbook published by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency, the Indian government increased the pace of privatization in its transition from government control and toward a free market economy. A significant component of the program is the promotion of foreign investment in key areas of the economy. While the Indian government’s policies have resulted in improved economic performance, there can be no assurance that the economic improvement will be sustained. Moreover, there can be no assurance that these economic reforms will persist, nor that any newly elected government will continue the program of economic liberalization of previous governments. Any change may adversely affect Indian laws and policies with respect to foreign investment and currency exchange. Such changes in economic policies could negatively affect general business and economic conditions in India, which could, in turn, adversely affect our business. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war within India or involving India and other countries could adversely affect the financial markets and our business. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence could have the direct effect of destroying our plants and property causing a loss and interruption of business. According to the CIA 2010 World Factbook, religious and border disputes persist in India and remain pressing problems. For example, India has from time to time experienced civil unrest and hostilities with Pakistan and other neighboring countries. The longstanding dispute with Pakistan over the border Indian states of Jammu and Kashmir, a majority of whose populations are Muslim, remains unresolved. Fortunately, as the Council on Foreign Relations noted, India and Pakistan have scheduled meetings in July with the hope of resuming formal peace talks. In addition, the April 8, 2010 Economist reported India continues to struggle with insurgent attacks from Maoist- Naxalite groups. If the Indian government is unable to control the violence and disruption associated with these insurgencies, then the result could be the destabilization of the economy, and, consequently, an adverse effect on our business. Since early 2003, there have also been military hostilities and civil unrest in Afghanistan, in Iraq, and more recently in Pakistan and other Asian countries. These events could adversely affect the Indian economy, and, as a result, negatively impact our business. While we may have insurance to cover some of these risks and can file claims against the Indian contracting agencies, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to collect in a timely manner. Further, India has a fairly active insurgency and a fairly active communist following. Any serious uprising from these groups could delay our roadwork and disrupt our business. Terrorist attacks, insurgencies, or other threats of violence could slow down road building activity and the production of iron ore and rock aggregate, thereby adversely affecting our business. Exchange controls that exist in India may limit our ability to utilize our cash flow effectively following a business combination. We are subject to India’s rules and regulations on currency conversion. In India, the Foreign Exchange Management Act, FEMA, regulates the conversion of the Indian rupee into foreign currencies. However, as according to the Reserve Bank of India, comprehensive amendments have been made to FEMA to support the government’s policy for economic liberalization. Companies are now permitted to operate in India without any special restrictions, effectively placing them on a par with wholly-owned Indian companies. In addition, foreign exchange controls have been substantially relaxed. Notwithstanding these changes, the Indian foreign exchange market is not yet fully developed and we cannot assure that the Indian authorities will not revert back to regulating companies and imposing new restrictions on the convertibil ity of the Indian rupee. Any future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to use our cash flow to fund operations outside of India. 8 Table of Contents Changes in the exchange rate of the Indian rupee may negatively impact our revenues and expenses. Our operations are primarily located in India. We receive payment in Indian rupees for the construction work we do in India (our contracts to supply iron ore to Chinese companies are paid in U.S. dollars). As the results of our operations are reported in U.S. dollars, to the extent that there is a decrease in the exchange rate of Indian rupees into U.S. dollars, such a decrease could have a material impact on our operating results or financial condition. This is unlikely because, as the Wall Street Journal reported in mid-April, the Rupee in expected to appreciate another 3% against the dollar by the end of the year. Returns on investment in Indian companies may be decreased by withholding and other taxes. Our investments in India will incur tax risks unique to investments in India and in developing economies in general. Income that might otherwise not be subject to the withholding of local income tax under normal international conventions may become subject to the withholding of Indian income tax. Under treaties with India and under local Indian income tax law, income is generally sourced in India and subject to Indian tax if paid from India. This is true whether or not the services or the earning of the income would normally be considered as being from sources outside India in other contexts. Additionally, proof of payment for Indian income taxes may be required as part of the remittance procedure. Any Indian taxes paid by us on income from our investments in India may or may not be creditable on our U.S. income tax ret urns. We intend to avail ourselves of income tax treaties with India and minimize any Indian withholding tax or local taxes. However, there is no assurance that the Indian tax authorities will always recognize such treaties and their application to us. We have also created a foreign subsidiary in Mauritius, in order to limit the potential tax exposure. Lack of availability of raw materials at competitive prices may negatively impact our profits. Construction contracts are primarily dependent on adequate and timely supply of raw materials, such as cement, steel and aggregates, at competitive prices. As the demand from competing larger and well-established material supply firms increases for procuring raw materials, we could face a disproportionate increase in the price of raw materials that may negatively impact our profitability. To mitigate this risk, we are taking steps to become more vertically integrated, such as producing rock aggregate. Some of our business is dependent on contracts awarded by the Indian government and its agencies. The construction business is dependent on central and state Indian government budget allocations to the infrastructure sector. We derive the bulk of our construction revenue from contracts awarded by the Indian central and state governments and their agencies. If there are delays in payments by the government, our working capital requirements could increase. Our materials business is dependent on private sector companies which could be affected by government delays, indirectly burdening our business. Compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could adversely impact our competitive position. Failure to comply could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits U.S. public companies from engaging in bribery of or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business. While we will take precautions to educate the employees of our subsidiaries on the provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, there can be no assurance that we or the employees or agents of our subsidiaries will not engage in such conduct, for which we might be held responsible. We could suffer penalties that would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents We may issue additional shares of our capital stock, including through convertible debt securities, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and possibly cause a change in control of our ownership. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 75,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share. There are currently approximately 46,000,000 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance. This is after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and the purchase option granted to Ferris, Baker Watts, Inc. and shares and options authorized for issuance under our 2008 Omnibus Incentive Plan. It is also after all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. We issued an aggregate of 1,060,000 shares of our common stock in connection with a private placement of debt securities and an exchange of previously issued debt securities for new debt securities and the common stock in October 2009 and may engage in similar private placements in the future. In addition, we may from time to time sell shares at the market. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock including the conversion of any debt securities may: · Significantly reduce the equity interest of our existing shareholders. · Adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock, warrants or units. We may issue notes or other debt securities, which may adversely affect our leverage and financial condition. During Fiscal 2009 and 2010, we sold $4,000,000 in a private placement of debt securities and may engage in similar private placements in the future. The incurrence of this debt may: · lead to default if our operating revenues are insufficient to pay our debt obligations; · cause an acceleration of our obligations to repay the debt even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach the covenants contained in the terms of the debt documents; · create an obligation to immediately repay all principal and accrued interest, if any, upon demand to the extent any debt securities are payable on demand; and · hinder our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, to the extent any debt securities contain covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such securities are outstanding, or to the extent our existing leverage discourages other potential investors. Additional capital may be costly or difficult to obtain. Additional capital, whether through the offering of equity or debt securities, may not be available on reasonable terms or at all, especially in light of the recent downturn in the economy and dislocations in the credit and capital markets. If we are unable to obtain required additional capital, we may have to curtail our growth plans or cut back on existing business. Furthermore, we may not be able to continue operating if we do not generate sufficient revenues from operations needed to stay in business. We may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, securities law compliance fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we issue, such as, convertible notes and warrants, which may adversely impact our financial condition. Assessment of penalties for time overruns and lack of quality may adversely affect our economic performance. TBL executes construction contracts primarily in the roads and infrastructure development sectors. TBL typically enters into high value contracts for these activities, which impose penalties if the contracts are not executed in a timely manner. If TBL is unable to meet the performance criteria prescribed by the contracts, then levied penalties may adversely affect our financial performance. Furthermore, we may pay demurrage for some of our iron ore delivery contracts, if ore is not loaded onto ships in the time prescribed by delivery contracts. The payment of demurrage may adversely affect our financial performance. The ore shipped by us from India is shipped with a quality certificate from a leading company. However the buyers in China also perform qu ality measurements, which could differ from the initial quality certificate. This may result in negative price adjustments affecting our profit margins. The rock aggregate business is less sensitive to time overruns and quality. 10 Table of Contents Our business is dependent on continuing relationships with clients and strategic partners. Our business requires developing and maintaining strategic alliances with contractors that undertake turnkey contracts for infrastructure development projects and with government organizations. The business and our results could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain continuing relationships and pre-qualified status with key clients and strategic partners. Our business model relies heavily on our management team and any unexpected loss of key officers may adversely affect our operations. The continued success of our business is largely dependent on the continued services of key employees. The loss of the services of certain key personnel, without adequate replacement, could have an adverse effect on our performance. U.S. senior management and the senior management of our subsidiaries have played a significant role in developing and executing the overall business plan. They are also vitally important to maintaining client relationships, proprietary processes, and technology. While no one is irreplaceable, the loss of the services of any of our officers would be disrupting to our business. Our strategy, management, financial and operational oversight are heavily dependent on our Founder and CEO. The loss of our CEO could have a significant adverse effect on our business. In order to m itigate this risk factor we are recruiting professional managers and expanding our executive ranks, as well as, developing a succession plan, but there can be no guarantees that our mitigation efforts will be successful. Quarterly financial results will vary. Factors that may contribute to the variability of quarterly revenue, operating results or profitability include: · Fluctuations in revenue due to seasonality. During the monsoon season, the heavy rains slow down construction work resulting in an overall slowdown of the supply of materials and construction activity. This results in uneven revenue and operating results through the quarters. In general, the months between June and September are the rainy seasons and these tend to be slower quarters. · The availability of enough ships to transport iron ore during any particular quarter. · Commencement, completion and termination of contracts during any particular quarter. · Additions and departures of key personnel. · Claims filed for delays in the execution and changes in the scope of contracts, among others, can sometimes enter arbitration and take time to settle. This could result in a tightening of working capital. · Strategic decisions made by us and our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments and changes in business strategy. Our revenue recognition policy records contract revenue for those stages of a project that we complete after we receive certification from the client that the stage has been successfully completed. Since revenue is not recorded until we receive a certification from our clients, revenue recognition can be uneven. Our future operating results and the market price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected if we are required to write down the carrying value of goodwill and investment associated with any of our businesses in the future. We review our goodwill balance and investments for impairment on at least an annual basis through the application of a fair value-based test. Our estimate of fair value is based primarily on projected future results and cash flows and other assumptions. In addition, we review long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. In the fourth quarter of our 2010 fiscal year, we performed our annual test for goodwill and investment impairment and determined that our goodwill and our investment in Sricon were not impaired. In the future, if our projected discounted cash flows associated with our businesses do not exceed the carrying value of their net assets, we may be required to record write downs of the carrying value of goodwill or other long-lived assets associated with our businesses. If that is the case, then our operating results and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents As of March 31, 2010 our goodwill balance was $6.9 million. We perform an annual goodwill impairment test during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change between annual tests that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the goodwill below its carrying amount. The 2008-2009 recession has impacted our financial results and has reduced near-term purchases from certain of our key customers. We may determine that our expectations of future financial results and cash flows from one or more of our businesses has decreased or a decrease in stock valuation may occur, which could result in a review of our goodwill associated with these businesses. Since a large portion of the value of our intangibles has been ascribed to projected revenues from certain key customers, a change in our expectation of future cash from one or more of these customers could indicate potential impairment to the carrying value of our goodwill. Our subsidiaries may become involved in litigation in the future. Our construction and aggregate contracts have Indian jurisdiction. Our iron ore contracts frequently have foreign jurisdiction. Our subsidiaries may have to initiate actions in the Indian Courts or in foreign courts to enforce their rights and may also be drawn into litigation. The expenses of litigation and any judgments against us could have an adverse effect on us. We face competition in the infrastructure industry. The Indian real estate and infrastructure industries, including the mining industries, are increasingly attracting foreign capital. We currently have competition from international and domestic companies that operate at the national level. Smaller localized contractors and companies are also competing in their respective regions. If we are unable to offer competitive prices and obtain contracts, there could be a significant reduction in our revenue. A downturn in the economy could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. A generally adverse financial global economy or a regional recession including one in India and/or in China could adversely affect commodity prices and infrastructure build-out in Asia, which in turn could adversely affect our future performance and result in a drop in our stock price. Our operations are sensitive to weather conditions. Our business activities in India could be adversely affected by severe weather conditions. Severe weather conditions may require us to evacuate personnel or curtail services and may result in damage to a portion of our fleet of equipment or to our facilities. This might result in the suspension of operations, and may prevent us from delivering materials to project sites in accordance with contract schedules or generally reduce our productivity. Difficult working conditions and extremely high temperatures also adversely affect our operations during the summer months and during the monsoon season, which restrict our ability to carry on construction activities and fully utilize our resources. Depending on the onset of the monsoons, revenue recorded in the first half of our fiscal year, particularly between June through September, is traditionally lower than revenue recorded during the second half of our fiscal year. During periods of curtailed activity due to adverse weather conditions, we may continue to incur operating expenses and build material reserves, temporarily reducing profitability. We incur costs as a result of operating as a public company. Our management is required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. Because we report in U.S. GAAP, we may experience delays in closing our books and records in India, and delays in the preparation of financial statements and related disclosures. As part of a public company with substantial operations, we are experiencing an increase in legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and new rules implemented by the SEC and the NYSE Amex, have imposed various requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. We have completed the testing of internal controls in all our subsidiaries. We expect to carry out the evaluations and install improved systems and processes as required. However, we cannot be certain as to the timing or completion of the remediation actions, or their impact on our operations. Furthermore, it is difficult to hire person nel in India who are familiar with U.S. GAAP. However, we have hired several competent consultants to help review our internal reporting and disclosures, and to train our Indian staff in SEC reporting and U.S. GAAP. We do not foresee a problem other than the time required to adequately complete the training and to implement the improved processes. 12 Table of Contents The audit report provided by Yoganandh and Ram (Y&R) will require a review by a U.S. firm. While our audit firm, Yoganandh & Ram, is registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the “PCAOB”), the SEC requires that the audits conducted by Yoganandh & Ram be reviewed by another PCAOB registered firm. If the review identifies changes to an audit, we will be required to amend our annual report as filed on Form 10-K incorporating the audited financial statements. During the year, the PCAOB conducted an inspection of Yoganandh & Ram. One result of the inspection is an expected increase in our auditing expense. The Company has warrants outstanding, which could dilute the number of shares outstanding. At the time the warrants are exercised, the Company will get the exercise price, unless the exercise is cashless. In either case, such an exercise will also increase the number of shares outstanding. This may adversely affect the share price as the supply of shares eligible for sale in the public market will increase. The increased number of shares offered for sale in the public market may exceed the public demand to buy shares at a given market price resulting in the market price adjusting downward. Although we are required to use our best efforts to have an effective registration statement covering the issuance of the shares underlying the public warrants at the time that our warrant holders exercise their public warrants, we cannot guarantee that a registration statement will be effective, in which case our warrant holders may not be able to exercise our public warrants and such warrants may expire worthless. Holders of our public warrants will be able to exercise the warrants only if a current registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 relating to the shares of our common stock underlying the warrants is then effective. Although we have undertaken in the warrant agreement, and therefore have a contractual obligation, to use our best efforts to maintain a current registration statement covering the shares underlying the public warrants to the extent required by federal securities laws, and we intend to comply with such undertaking, with such a registration statement currently effective, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. In no event shall we be liable for, or any registered holder of any warrant be entitled to receive, (a) physical settlement in securities unless the conditions and requirements set forth in the warrant agreement have been satisfied, or (b) any net-cash settlement or other consideration in lieu of physical settlement in securities. The value of the public warrants may be greatly reduced if a registration statement covering the shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not kept current. Such warrants may even expire worthless. Because the warrants sold in the private placements were originally issued pursuant to an exemption from registration requirements under the federal securities laws, the holders of the warrants sold in the private placement will be able to exercise their warrants even if, at the time of exercise, a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants is not current. As a result, the holders of the warrants purchased in the private placements will not have any restrictions with respect to the exercise of their warrants. As described above, the holders of the public warrants will not be able to exercise them unless we have a current registration statement covering the shares issuable upon their exercise. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, then the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about our business and us. We do not control these analysts. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity analysts downgrades our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about our business or us. We do not currently intend to pay dividends, which may limit the return on your investment in us. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. 13 Table of Contents We are currently not in compliance with the NYSE Amex listing requirements and are at risk of being delisted from the NYSE Amex equities market which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. On March 31, 2010, we received notice from the NYSE Amex LLC (the “NYSE Amex”) stating that the Company is not in compliance with Section 704 of the Exchange’s Company Guide. Specifically, we failed to hold an annual meeting of its stockholders during 2009. As a result, we have become subject to the procedures and requirements of Section 1009 of the Company Guide. To maintain its NYSE Amex listing, we must submit a plan to the NYSE Amex by April 30, 2010, advising the NYSE Amex that we intend to regain compliance with Section 704 of the Company Guide by September 30, 2010. The Company has submitted a plan to the NYSE Amex providing for holding a meeting of stockholders on or before September 30, 2010 which can reasonably be expected to bring us into compliance within the plan period. O n April 30, 2010, we received notice from the NYSE Amex stating that after review of our plan, the NYSE Amex determined that we made a reasonable demonstration of an ability to regain compliance with the continued listing standards and it therefore granted us an extension to regain compliance with Section 1003(a)(iv) of the Company Guide by September 30, 2010 during which time we may continue our listing. Pursuant to the extension, we must continue to provide the NYSE Amex with updates regarding the initiatives set forth in the plan and the NYSE Amex will periodically review our company to determine our progress and compliance with the plan. If the NYSE Amex does not believe that we are progressing as set forth in the plan or if we do not regain compliance by September 30, 2010, the NYSE Amex may immediately commence delisting proceedings. Under NYSE Amex rules, we have the right to appeal any determination by NYSE Amex to initiate delisting proceedings. IGC plans to have its annual sha reholders meeting prior to September 30, 2010, after which time we expect to be in full compliance with NYSE Amex procedures and regulations. If the NYSE Amex delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant adverse consequences, including a: · limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; · limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and · decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future If our common stock were delisted and determined to be a “penny stock,” a broker-dealer may find it more difficult to trade our common stock and an investor may find it more difficult to acquire or dispose of our common stock in the secondary market. If our common stock were removed from listing with the NYSE Amex, it may be subject to the so-called “penny stock” rules. The SEC has adopted regulations that define a penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price per share of less than $5.00, subject to certain exceptions, such as any securities listed on a national securities exchange. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers, subject to certain exceptions. If our common stock were delisted and determined to be a penny stock, a broker-dealer may find it more difficult to trade our common stock and an investor may find it more difficult to acquire or dispose of our common stock on the secondary market. Investors in penny stocks should be prepared for the possibility that they may lose their whole investment. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 14 Table of Contents 