risk factors with regard to specific conditions. The results of the health risk assessment are then used, along with the individual’s usage patterns, to give each user a personalized experience relevant to his or her specific needs and interests. Users can get consistent reinforcement from lifestyle improvement programs and condition centers, health management content, and targeted health messaging. We complement our Health Management Suite with personalized telephonic health coaching services. Health coaches work one-on-one with employees and plan members to motivate them to improve their own health status by better managing existing health conditions, by pursuing health conscious lifestyles, by actively seeking health and wellness knowledge and by understanding the financial and health impact of lifestyle decisions. • The WebMD Benefits & Financial Suite helps employees and plan members to better understand the financial implications of their benefits options and make more informed benefits-related purchase decisions. Using WebMD Coverage Advisorsm, they can compare costs across available health plan options based on personalized information regarding coverage alternatives, along with cost-modeling and projection utilities. WebMD Health Expense Advisorsm helps individuals manage and track their healthcare expenses, create budgets and analyze the benefits available under their health plan. WebMD 11 Table of Contents HSA Advisorsm provides personalized resources to assist in determining appropriate amounts for individuals to contribute to medical savings accounts based on their profile. The Benefits & Financial Suite is integrated with WebMD Health Management Suite applications and content, so users can align their benefits choices with their personal health profile and individual financial circumstances. Cost-modeling and projection tools help users to understand and adopt the right health plan for their situation. • The WebMD Provider & Treatment Suite gives employees and plan members access to information and services that can help them factor quality and cost into decisions about care and treatment options. The Provider & Treatment Suite helps users analyze provider quality, identify appropriate drug and treatment choices, and understand the costs associated with their care. This suite leverages multiple data sources for cost and quality comparisons and provides a personalized, consistent user experience across a full set of integrated tools. The quality comparisons are based on evidence-based measures, such as volume of patients treated for particular illnesses or procedures, mortality rates, unfavorable outcomes for specific problems, and average length of hospital stay. The WebMD Provider Selection Advisorsm included in this Suite allows users to search for healthcare providers (including physicians, hospitals, medical practices, dental providers and others) by name, specialty, location or healthcare need/situation and provides profiles and comparative information on these providers. • The WebMD Health Record Suite helps employees and plan members gather, store, manage and share their essential health data. The Health Record Suite provides a secure personal health record for self-reported and imported health information, and prompts employees and plan members with secure, personalized health alerts describing potential care or medication issues. This suite includes ID-enabled healthcare provider access that encourages communication with providers to reduce errors or duplications and to improve healthcare outcomes. Whether used independently or as part of an integrated platform, these product suites help employees and health plan members become better-informed health consumers, make better healthcare choices, and feel more satisfied with their benefits choices. We also assist employers and plan members to motivate their employees and members to use the tools and information provided by the Health and Benefits Manager and to implement wellness incentive programs that encourage and reward specific health behaviors. For example, the Insight Engine enables targeted communications campaigns that inform and motivate employees and plan members to change their behaviors and improve health status. Messages can be targeted based on health profile characteristics, demographics, or site usage, and they can be designed to raise awareness of specific programs, motivate a lifestyle change, or increase utilization of health resources. We believe that our private portals and related services provide the following potential benefits to an employer or health plan: • reduced benefits administration, communication, and customer service costs; • more efficient coordination of messaging through the use of integrated member profiles; • increased employee participation in Flexible Spending Accounts (FSAs) and Health Savings Accounts (HSAs); • reduced hospital, physician and drug costs through more informed utilization of the benefit plan; • increased enrollment in health management programs, including disease management or health coaching; • increased member satisfaction with the employer and the benefit plan; • increased conformance with benefit plan and clinical protocols; • enhanced health risk stratification that assists employers and health plans in selecting health management programs that are appropriate to the needs of their specific populations; and • reduction in overall health risks and increased employee productivity. 12 Table of Contents In addition, we believe that our private portals and related services provide the following potential benefits to employees or plan members: • increased tax savings through increased participation in FSAs and HSAs; • reduced benefit costs through more informed choice of benefit plan options and more informed use of the chosen benefit plan; • improved health outcomes, through more informed choices of providers and treatments; and • improved understanding and management of health conditions through access to support tools and educational information. Relationships with Customers Companies utilizing our private portal applications include employers, such as PepsiCo, Inc., International Business Machines Corporation, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, Verizon Services Corp., Honda of America, The Kroger Co., J.C. Penney Corporation, Inc., Electronic Data Systems Corporation, Medtronic, Inc., EMC Corporation, Walmart Stores, Inc., and Hewlett-Packard Company, and health plans, such as Wellpoint, Inc., Blue Cross Blue Shield of Alabama, HealthNet, ConnecticutCare, Pacific Source Health Plans, Cigna and Horizon Blue Cross and Blue Shield. A typical contract for a private portal license provides for a multi-year term. The pricing of these contracts is generally based on several factors, including the complexity involved in installing and integrating our private portal platform, the number of our private portal tools and applications licensed, the services being provided, the degree of customization of the services involved and the anticipated number of employees or members covered by such license. Relationship with Fidelity Human Resources Services Company LLC In February 2004, we entered into a relationship with Fidelity Human Resources Services Company LLC, or FHRS, a provider of human resources and benefits outsourcing administration services. Pursuant to the agreement, FHRS serves as a distributor of our private portal services, and in connection therewith, FHRS integrates our products with FHRS’s products to offer employer customers of FHRS an integrated solution through FHRS’s NetBenefits® Web site. FHRS’s integrated solutions provide employees with employer-provided health plan information and our personal health management tools allow employees to access a personalized view of their healthcare options so that they can make more informed healthcare decisions. In May 2006, we expanded our agreement with FHRS to integrate our online health care cost planning tools with FHRS’s 401(k) savings, pension and retirement accounts. Pursuant to the agreement, we have agreed to cooperate in marketing and selling to clients that are purchasing FHRS’s health and welfare benefits outsourcing services. For those clients, the NetBenefits site is marketed as the preferred delivery mechanism for the WebMD private portal applications. However, a client always retains the right to contract directly with us, and we are permitted to provide our services directly to a client if a client so requests. Under our agreement with FHRS, FHRS has retained the right to terminate the distribution of the WebMD private portal tools to an individual client at any time. The May 2006 amendment also extended the initial term of the agreement to August 31, 2009, and FHRS has the right to renew the agreement for additional terms of one year after the initial term (not to exceed two (2) one-year renewal terms). FHRS has agreed to certain minimum levels of employees to be covered under the agreement. FHRS is an affiliate of FMR Corp, which reported beneficial ownership of shares representing approximately 5.2% of our Class A Common Stock at December 31, 2008, and approximately 9.9% of HLTH’s common stock at December 31, 2008. Sales and Marketing We market our private online portals and health coaching services to employers and health plans through a dedicated sales, marketing and account management team and through relationships with employee benefits 13 Table of Contents consultants, distributors and other companies that assist employers in purchasing or managing employee benefits, including FHRS. See “— Relationship with Fidelity Human Resources Services Company LLC” above for more information regarding our relationship with FHRS. Technological Infrastructure Our Internet-based services are delivered through Web sites designed to address the healthcare information needs of consumers and healthcare professionals with easy-to-use interfaces, search functions and navigation capabilities. We use customized content management and publishing technology to develop, edit, publish, manage, and organize the content for our Web sites. We use ad-serving technology to store, manage and serve online advertisements in a contextually relevant manner to the extent possible. We also use specialized software for delivering personalized content through the WebMD Health and Benefits Manager and, for registered members, through our public Web sites. We have invested and intend to continue to invest in software and systems that allow us to meet the demands of our users and sponsors. Continued development of our technological infrastructure is critical to our success. Our development teams work closely with marketing and account management employees to create content management capabilities, interactive tools and other applications for use across all of our portals. The goal of our current and planned investments is to further develop our content and technology platform serving various end-users, including consumers and physicians, and to create innovative services that provide value for healthcare advertisers, employers, payers, and other sponsors. User Privacy and Trust General. We have adopted internal policies and practices relating to, among other things, content standards and user privacy, designed to foster our relationships with our users. In addition, we participate in the following external, independent verification programs: • URAC. We were awarded e-Health accreditation from URAC, an independent accrediting body that has reviewed and approved the WebMD.com site and our private portal deployment of WebMD Personal Health Manager for compliance with its quality and ethics standards. • TRUSTe. We are a licensee of the TRUSTe Privacy Seal and the TRUSTe EU Safe Harbor programs. TRUSTe is an independent, non-profit organization whose goal is to build users’ trust and confidence in the Internet. Each year since 2005, TRUSTe and the Ponemon Institute have sponsored an independently administered user-based ranking of the most trusted companies in America and WebMD has consistently ranked among the most trusted in each of those rankings. • Health on the Net Foundation. Our WebMD.com, eMedicine.com, eMedicineHealth.com, MedicineNet.com and Subimo.com sites and WebMD Personal Health Manager comply with the principles of the HON Code of Conduct established by the Health on the Net Foundation. Privacy Policies. We understand how important the privacy of personal information is to our users. Our Privacy Policies are posted on our Web sites and inform users regarding the information we collect about them and about their use of our portals and our services. Our Privacy Policies also explain the choices users have about how their personal information is used and how we protect that information. Content-Sharing and Marketing Relationships FDA. We are working with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (or FDA) to expand consumer access to the FDA’s timely and reliable important health information. The collaboration includes: • A new online consumer health information resource on WebMD.com (www.webmd.com/fda), through which consumers can access information on the safety of FDA-regulated products, including food, medicine and cosmetics, as well as learn how to report problems involving the safety of these products directly to the FDA. In addition, WebMD will provide FDA public health alerts to all WebMD registered users and site visitors that request them. The cross-linked joint resource also features the 14 Table of Contents FDA’s Consumer Updates — timely and easy-to-read articles that are also posted on the FDA’s main consumer Web page (www.fda.gov/consumer). • FDA Consumer Updates will also be featured at least three times a year in WebMD the Magazine. GNC. We have entered into a marketing relationship with General Nutrition Corporation (GNC), a specialty retailer of nutritional products, to increase consumer awareness and understanding of the importance of vitamins and supplements to improve overall health and wellness. As part of the relationship, a new “Live Well” Topic Center is being hosted on GNC.com and on WebMD.com, giving users access to WebMD content on health and wellness. GNC is being featured in targeted areas on The WebMD Health Network where consumers go most often for information on personal health, diet and nutrition and an interactive, personal health assessment is available to help consumers establish their health goals and identify nutritional supplements that would be beneficial for them. In addition, consumer education and product information is being distributed across GNC’s U.S. retail locations. Yahoo! In November 2007, we entered into a four year Service Agreement with a wholly owned subsidiary of Yahoo! Inc., a global Internet company, pursuant to which we have agreed to exclusively use Yahoo!’s sponsored search results product (which delivers paid advertisements in search results) across WebMD’s network of consumer sites. We have also agreed to exclusively use Yahoo!’s algorithmic Web search product. Under this agreement, we share revenues with Yahoo! based upon the amounts received by Yahoo! from advertisers for sponsored search results that appear on The WebMD Health Network, subject to certain minimum payment guarantees. At the same time, we also entered into a four year Distribution Agreement with Yahoo! pursuant to which we sell advertisements to third parties for display on Yahoo! owned and operated Web sites and certain third-party Web sites (which we refer to as the Yahoo! Properties). Our rights to sell such inventory are exclusive against certain other online health publishers. The Distribution Agreement includes mutual restrictions on the use of end-user data of a party received by the other party. Under the Distribution Agreement, we pay Yahoo! a specified percentage of advertising revenues for advertisements that we sell and display on the Yahoo! Properties. During the term of the Distribution Agreement, if we do not achieve certain minimums, Yahoo! may elect to terminate the exclusivity provisions. International Relationships. We see a significant opportunity for international growth of our public portal services. Generally, we expect that we would accomplish this through alliances or joint ventures with other companies having expertise in the specific country or region. During the third quarter of 2007, we announced our first such relationship, an alliance with the leading provider of online pharmaceutical and medical information in Latin America, Spain and Portugal, pursuant to which we are delivering Medscape from WebMD’s clinical information to these markets. We continue to evaluate opportunities for further international growth. Other Relationships. We have an editorial partnership with Hearst Communications, a leading publisher of consumer health, wellness and lifestyle magazines, who provides us with branded content. In addition, we provide our branded content to the CBS Evening News, CBS Early Show, and CBSNews.com. PUBLISHING AND OTHER SERVICES WebMD the Magazine. WebMD the Magazine, which WebMD launched in 2005, is a full size, consumer publication delivered free of charge to physicians’ offices in the United States. WebMD the Magazine reaches consumers right before they meet with their physicians. This allows sponsors to extend their advertising reach and to deliver their message when consumers are actively engaged in the healthcare process, and allows us to extend the WebMD brand into offline channels. The editorial format of WebMD the Magazine is specifically designed for the physician’s waiting room. Its editorial features and highly interactive format of assessments, quizzes and questions are designed to inform consumers about important health and wellness topics. The editorial content in the magazine is medically reviewed and approved by WebMD staff physicians. We market WebMD the Magazine through a team comprised of in-house sales persons and third party marketers. 15 Table of Contents The WebMD Little Blue Book. The WebMD Little Blue Book is a physician directory published annually in over 140 distinct geographic editions, and contains practice information on an aggregate of more than 400,000 physicians. Physicians utilize The WebMD Little Blue Book for local and up-to-date physician, pharmacy and hospital contact information. Physicians are listed free of charge in their local area edition, along with their specialties, HMO affiliations, office addresses and telephone numbers. We also use the information used to produce The WebMD Little Blue Book to generate both online and offline directory and information products. We market The WebMD Little Blue Book directly through an in-house sales team. COMPETITION The markets we participate in are intensely competitive, continually evolving and may, in some cases, be subject to rapid change. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and some are better known than we are. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against these organizations. We also compete, in some cases, with joint ventures or other alliances formed by two or more of our competitors or by our competitors with other third parties. Public Portals Our public portals face competition from numerous other companies, both in attracting users and in generating revenue from advertisers and sponsors. We compete with online services and Web sites that provide health-related information, including both commercial sites and not-for-profit sites. These competitors include: • general purpose consumer Web sites that offer specialized health sub-channels, including yahoo.com, msn.com and AOL.com; and • other high traffic Web sites that include healthcare-related and non-healthcare-related content and services. Our competitors also include search engines that offer specialized search within the area of health information, including google.com, yahoo.com and msn.com, as well as advertising networks that aggregate traffic from multiple Web sites, including ad.com, bluelithium.com and everydayhealth.com. Other competitors for advertising and sponsorship revenue include: • publishers and distributors of traditional offline media, including television and magazines targeted to consumers, as well as print journals and other specialized media targeted to healthcare professionals, many of which have established or may establish their own Web sites or partner with other Web sites; • offline medical conferences, CME programs and symposia; • vendors of e-detailing services and our clients’ own in-house detailing efforts; and • vendors of healthcare information, products and services distributed through other means, including direct sales, mail and fax messaging. Competitors for the attention of healthcare professionals and consumers also include: • the competitors for advertisers and sponsors described above; and • public sector, non-profit and other Web sites that provide healthcare information without advertising or sponsorships from third parties, such as NIH.gov, CDC.gov and AHA.org. Since there are no substantial barriers to entry into the markets in which our public portals participate, we expect that additional competitors will continue to enter these markets. 16 Table of Contents Private Portals Our private portal services compete, directly or indirectly, with various types of services provided by many different types of companies, including: • wellness and disease management vendors, including Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research, StayWell Productions/MediMedia USA, Inc., Healthways, Health Dialog, and Alere (a division of Inverness Medical Innovations); • suppliers of online and offline electronic personal health records and related applications and platforms, including Medem, CapMed, Epic Systems, Microsoft, Google and a variety of other companies; • suppliers of other online and offline health management applications, including HealthMedia, Health A-Z, which is owned by United Healthcare, A.D.A.M. Inc., and Consumer Health Interactive; • health information services and health management offerings of health plans and their affiliates, including those of Humana, Aetna and United Healthcare; and • other providers of health and benefits decision-support tools. Offline Publications Our offline publications compete with numerous other online and offline sources of healthcare information, including the online ones described earlier in this section. In addition, WebMD the Magazine competes with other offline health-focused magazines for consumers and The WebMD Little Blue Book competes with other offline physician-office media. GOVERNMENT REGULATION, INDUSTRY STANDARDS AND RELATED MATTERS Introduction This section of the Annual Report contains a description of laws and regulations applicable to us, either directly or through their effect on our healthcare industry customers, as well as healthcare and Internet industry standards that serve a self-regulatory function, and related matters. Existing and future laws, regulations and industry standards affecting the healthcare, information technology and Internet industries could create unexpected liabilities for us, cause us to incur additional costs and restrict our operations. Many of the laws that affect us, and particularly those applying to healthcare, are very complex and may be subject to varying interpretations by courts and other governmental authorities. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to accurately anticipate the application of laws, regulations and industry standards to our operations. Most of our revenue flows either directly from the healthcare industry or from other sources that could be affected by changes affecting healthcare spending. The healthcare industry is highly regulated and is subject to changing political, regulatory and other influences. These factors affect the purchasing practices and operations of healthcare organizations as well as the behavior and attitudes of consumers. Federal and state legislatures and agencies periodically consider programs to reform or revise aspects of the United States healthcare system. These programs may contain proposals to increase governmental involvement in healthcare, change reimbursement rates or otherwise change the environment in which healthcare industry participants operate. Healthcare industry participants may respond by reducing their expenditures or postponing expenditure decisions, including expenditures for our products and services. We are unable to predict future proposals with any certainty or to predict the effect they could have on our businesses. Many healthcare laws are complex, and their application to specific products and services may not be clear. In particular, many existing healthcare laws and regulations, when enacted, did not anticipate the healthcare information services that we provide. However, these laws and regulations may nonetheless be applied to our products and services. Our failure to accurately anticipate the application of these laws and 17 Table of Contents regulations to our businesses, or other failure to comply, could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity and negatively affect our businesses. This section of the Annual Report also contains a description of other laws and regulations, including general consumer protection laws and Internet-related laws that affect some of our businesses. Laws and regulations have been adopted, and may be adopted in the future, that address Internet-related issues, including online content, privacy, online marketing, unsolicited commercial email, taxation, pricing, and quality of products and services. Some of these laws and regulations, particularly those that relate specifically to the Internet, were adopted relatively recently, and their scope and application may still be subject to uncertainties. Interpretations of these laws, as well as any new or revised law or regulation, could decrease demand for our services, increase our cost of doing business, or otherwise cause our business to suffer. Regulation of Drug and Medical Device Advertising and Promotion The Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, regulate the form, content and dissemination of labeling, advertising and promotional materials prepared by, or for, pharmaceutical or medical device companies, including direct-to-consumer (or DTC) prescription drug and medical device advertising. The FTC regulates over-the-counter drug advertising and, in some cases, medical device advertising. Generally, based on FDA requirements, regulated companies must limit advertising and promotional materials to discussions of FDA-approved uses and claims. In limited circumstances, regulated companies may disseminate certain non-promotional scientific information regarding product uses or claims not yet approved by the FDA. Information on our Web sites that promotes the use of pharmaceutical products or medical devices is subject to the full array of FDA and FTC requirements and enforcement actions and information regarding other products and services is subject to FTC requirements. If the FDA or the FTC finds that any information on our Web site violates FDA or FTC regulations or guidance, they may take regulatory or judicial action against us or the advertiser or sponsor of that information. State attorneys general may also take similar action based on their state’s consumer protection statutes. Areas of our Web sites that could be the primary focus of regulators include pages and programs that discuss use of an FDA-regulated product or that the regulators believe may lack editorial independence from the influence of sponsoring pharmaceutical or medical device companies. Our television broadcast advertisements may also be subject to FTC and FDA regulation, depending on the content. The FDA and the FTC place the principal burden of compliance with advertising and promotional regulations on advertisers and sponsors to make truthful, substantiated claims. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDC Act, requires that prescription drugs (including biological products) be approved by the FDA prior to marketing. It is a violation of the FDC Act and of FDA regulations to market, advertise or otherwise commercialize such products prior to approval. The FDA allows for preapproval exchange of scientific information, provided it is nonpromotional in nature and does not draw conclusions regarding the ultimate safety or effectiveness of the unapproved drug. Upon approval, the FDA’s regulatory authority extends to the labeling and advertising of prescription drugs offered in interstate commerce. Such products may be promoted and advertised only for uses reviewed and approved by the FDA. In addition, the labeling and advertising can be neither false nor misleading, and must present all material information, including risk information, in a clear, conspicuous and neutral manner. There are also requirements for certain information (the “prescribing information” or “package insert” for promotional labeling and the “brief summary” for advertising) to be part of labeling and advertising. Labeling and advertising that violate these legal standards are subject to FDA enforcement action. The FDA also regulates the safety, effectiveness, and labeling of over-the-counter (OTC) drugs under the FDC Act either through specific product approvals or through regulations that define approved claims for specific categories of such products. The FTC regulates the advertising of OTC drugs under the section of the Federal Trade Commission Act that prohibits unfair or deceptive trade practices. The FDA and FTC regulatory framework requires that OTC drugs be formulated and labeled in accordance with FDA approvals or regulations and promoted in a manner that is truthful, adequately substantiated, and consistent with the labeled uses. OTC drugs that do not meet these requirements are subject to FDA or FTC enforcement action 18 Table of Contents depending on the nature of the violation. In addition, state attorneys general may bring enforcement actions for alleged unfair or deceptive advertising. There are several administrative, civil and criminal sanctions available to the FDA for violations of the FDC Act or FDA regulations as they relate to labeling and advertising. Administrative sanctions may include a written request that violative advertising or promotion cease and/or that corrective action be taken, such as requiring a company to provide to healthcare providers and/or consumers information to correct misinformation previously conveyed. In addition, the FDA may use publicity, such as press releases, to warn the public about false and misleading information concerning a drug or medical device product. More serious civil sanctions include seizures, injunctions, fines and consent decrees. Such measures could prevent a company from introducing or maintaining its product in the marketplace. Criminal penalties for severe violations can result in a prison term and/or substantial fines. State attorneys general have similar investigative tools and sanctions available to them. Any increase in FDA regulation of the Internet or other media used for DTC advertisements of prescription drugs could make it more difficult for us to obtain advertising and sponsorship revenue. In the last 15 years, the FDA has gradually relaxed its formerly restrictive policies on DTC advertising of prescription drugs. Companies may now advertise prescription drugs to consumers in any medium, provided that they satisfy FDA requirements. However, legislators, physician groups and others have criticized the FDA’s current policies, and have called for restrictions on advertising of prescription drugs to consumers and increased FDA enforcement. These critics point both to public health concerns and to the laws of many other countries that make DTC advertising of prescription drugs a criminal offense. Congress and the FDA have shown interest in these issues as well and there is a possibility that Congress, the FDA or the FTC may alter present policies on DTC advertising of prescription drugs or medical devices in a material way. We cannot predict what effect any such changes would have on our business. Industry trade groups, such as the Pharmaceuticals Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), have implemented voluntary guidelines for DTC advertising in response to public concerns. The PhRMA Guiding Principles for Direct to Consumer Advertisement of Prescription Medicines (referred to as the PhRMA Guidelines), which originally went into effect in January 2006, have recently been revised with an effective date of March 2, 2009. The PhRMA Guidelines address various aspects of DTC, including: balancing presentation of benefits and risks; timing of DTC campaigns, including allowing for a period for education of healthcare professionals prior to launching a branded DTC campaign; use of healthcare professionals and celebrities in DTC advertisements; and timing and placement of advertisements with adult-oriented content. PhRMA has also implemented a voluntary Code On Interactions With Health Care Professionals, adopted in 2009, with an effective date of January 1, 2009 (which we refer to as the PhRMA Code), that revised a predecessor Code from 2002. The new PhRMA Code, among other things: prohibits distribution of non-educational items (such as pens, mugs and other “reminder” objects typically adorned with a company or product logo) to healthcare providers and their staff; and prohibits company sales representatives from providing restaurant meals to healthcare professionals, but allows them to provide occasional meals in healthcare professionals’ offices in conjunction with informational presentations. The new PhRMA Code also reaffirms and strengthens statements in its predecessor that companies should not provide any entertainment or recreational benefits to healthcare professionals. Regulation and Accreditation of Continuing Medical Education Activities and information provided in the context of an independent medical or scientific educational program, often referred to as continuing medical education or “CME,” usually are treated as non-promotional and fall outside the FDA’s jurisdiction. The FDA does, however, evaluate CME activities to determine whether they are independent of the promotional influence of the activities’ supporters. To determine whether a CME provider’s activities are sufficiently independent, the FDA looks at a number of factors related to the planning, content, speakers and audience selection of such activities. To the extent that the FDA concludes that such activities are not independent, such content must fully comply with the FDA’s requirements and restrictions regarding promotional activities. 19 Table of Contents Medscape, LLC distributes online CME to physicians and other healthcare professionals and is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME), which oversees providers of CME credit. MedscapeCME (www.medscapecme.com) is the Web site through which Medscape, LLC distributes online CME. If any CME activity that Medscape, LLC provides is considered promotional, Medscape, LLC may face regulatory action or the loss of accreditation by the ACCME. Supporters of CME activities may also face regulatory action, potentially leading to termination of support. Medscape, LLC’s current ACCME accreditation expires at the end of July 2010. In order for Medscape, LLC to renew its accreditation, it will be required to demonstrate to the ACCME that it continues to meet ACCME requirements. If Medscape, LLC fails to maintain its status as an accredited ACCME provider (whether at the time of such renewal or at an earlier time as a result of a failure to comply with existing or additional ACCME standards), Medscape, LLC would not be permitted to accredit CME activities for physicians and other healthcare professionals. Instead, Medscape, LLC would be required to use third parties to provide such CME-related services. That, in turn, could discourage potential supporters from engaging Medscape, LLC to develop CME or education related activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Medscape, LLC’s CME activities are planned and implemented in accordance with the Essential Areas and Policies of the ACCME and other applicable accreditation standards. ACCME’s standards for commercial support of CME are intended to ensure, among other things, that CME activities of ACCME-accredited providers, such as Medscape, LLC, are independent of “commercial interests,” which are now defined as entities that produce, market, re-sell or distribute health care goods and services, excluding certain organizations. “Commercial interests,” and entities owned or controlled by “commercial interests,” are ineligible for accreditation by the ACCME. The standards also provide that accredited CME providers may not place their CME content on Web sites owned or controlled by a “commercial interest.” In addition, accredited CME providers may not ask “commercial interests” for speaker or topic suggestions, and are also prohibited from asking “commercial interests” to review CME content prior to delivery. From time to time, the ACCME revises its standards for commercial support of CME. As a result of certain past ACCME revisions, we adjusted our corporate structure and made changes to our management and operations intended to allow Medscape, LLC to provide CME activities that are developed independently from those programs developed by its sister companies, which may not be independent of “commercial interests.” We believe that these changes allow Medscape, LLC to satisfy the applicable standards. In June 2008, the ACCME published for comment several proposals, including the following: • Potential New Paradigm for Commercial Support: The ACCME stated that due consideration should be given to eliminating commercial support of CME. To frame the debate, the ACCME proposed several possible scenarios: (a) maintaining the current system of commercial support; (b) completely eliminating commercial support; (c) a new paradigm that provides for commercial support if the following conditions are met: (1) educational needs are identified and verified by organizations that do not receive commercial support and are free of financial relationships with industry; (2) the CME addresses a professional practice gap of a particular group of learners that is corroborated by bona fide performance measurements of the learners’ own practice; (3) the CME content is from a continuing education curriculum specified by a bona fide organization or entity; and (4) the CME is verified as free of commercial bias; and (d) an alternative new paradigm in which the four conditions described above would provide a basis for a mechanism to distribute commercial support derived from industry-donated, pooled funds. • Defining Appropriate Interactions between ACCME Accredited Providers and Commercial Supporters. The ACCME has proposed that: (a) accredited providers must not receive communications from commercial interests announcing or prescribing any specific content that would be a preferred, or sought-after, topic for commercially supported CME (e.g., therapeutic area, product-line, patho-physiology); and (b) receiving communications from commercial interests regarding a commercial interest’s internal criteria for providing commercial support would also not be permissible. 20 Table of Contents The comment period for these proposals ended on September 12, 2008. The comments submitted to the ACCME indicated significant backing from the medical profession for commercially-supported CME and, accordingly, we believe that it is unlikely that a proposal for complete elimination of such support would be adopted. However, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the process, including what other alternatives may be considered by ACCME as a result of comments it has received. The elimination of, or restrictions on, commercial support for CME could adversely affect the volume of sponsored online CME programs implemented through our Web sites. During the past several years, educational activities, including CME, directed at physicians have been subject to increased governmental scrutiny to ensure that sponsors do not influence or control the content of the activities. For example, the U.S. Senate Finance Committee conducted an investigation of the sponsorship of CME activities, including an examination of the ACCME’s role in ensuring that CME activities are independent from the influence of their supporters. In response, pharmaceutical companies and medical device companies have developed and implemented internal controls and procedures that promote adherence to applicable regulations and requirements. In implementing these controls and procedures, supporters of CME may interpret the regulations and requirements differently and may implement varying procedures or requirements. These controls and procedures: • may discourage pharmaceutical companies from providing grants for independent educational activities; • may slow their internal approval for such grants; • may reduce the volume of sponsored educational programs that Medscape LLC produces to levels that are lower than in the past, thereby reducing revenue; and • may require Medscape LLC to make changes to how it offers or provides educational programs, including CME. In addition, future changes to laws, regulations or accreditation standards, or to the internal compliance programs of supporters or potential supporters, may further discourage, significantly limit, or prohibit supporters or potential supporters from engaging in educational activities with Medscape LLC, or may require Medscape LLC to make further changes in the way it offers or provides educational activities. HIPAA Privacy Standards and Security Standards The Privacy Standards and Security Standards under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (or HIPAA) establish a set of national privacy and security standards for the protection of individually identifiable health information by health plans, healthcare clearinghouses and healthcare providers (sometimes referred to as “covered entities” for purposes of HIPAA). The Privacy Standards and Security Standards do not currently apply directly to our businesses. However, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”) enhances and strengthens the HIPAA Privacy and Security Standards and makes certain provisions applicable to those portions of our business, such as those managing employee or plan member health information for employers or health plans, that are “business associates” of covered entities. Currently, we are bound by certain contracts and agreements with covered entities that require us to use and disclose protected health information in a manner consistent with the Privacy Standards and Security Standards in providing services to those covered entities. Beginning on February 17, 2010, some provisions of the HIPAA Privacy and Security rules will apply directly to us. In addition, ARRA imposes data breach notification requirements on vendors of Personal Health Records that will require us to notify affected individuals and the Federal Trade Commission in the event of a data breach involving the unsecured personal information of our users. These new Privacy and Security provisions will require us to incur additional costs and may restrict our business operations. In addition, these new provisions will result in additional regulations and guidance issued by HHS and will be subject to interpretation by various courts and other governmental authorities, thus creating potentially complex compliance issues for us and our customers and strategic partners. Currently, only covered entities are directly subject to potential civil and criminal liability under the Privacy Standards and Security Standards. However, depending on the facts and circumstances, we could be 21 Table of Contents subject to criminal liability for aiding and abetting or conspiring with a covered entity to violate those Standards. As of February 17, 2010, we will be directly subject to HIPAA’s criminal and civil penalties. Other Restrictions Regarding Confidentiality, Privacy and Security of Health Information In addition to HIPAA, numerous other state and federal laws govern the collection, dissemination, use, access to, confidentiality and security of patient health and prescriber information. In addition, Congress and some states are considering new laws and regulations that further protect the privacy and security of medical records or medical information. In many cases, these state laws are not preempted by the HIPAA Standards and may be subject to interpretation by various courts and other governmental authorities, thus creating potentially complex compliance issues for us and our customers and strategic partners. These laws at a state or federal level, or new interpretations of these laws, could create liability for us, could impose additional operational requirements on our business, could affect the manner in which we use and transmit patient information and could increase our cost of doing business. Claims of violations of privacy rights or contractual breaches, even if we are not found liable, could be expensive and time-consuming to defend and could result in adverse publicity that could harm our business. Consumer Protection Regulation General. Advertising and promotional activities presented to visitors on our Web sites are subject to federal and state consumer protection laws that regulate unfair and deceptive practices. We are also subject to various other federal and state consumer protection laws, including the specific ones described later in this section. The FTC and many state attorneys general are applying federal and state consumer protection laws to require that the online collection, use and dissemination of data, and the presentation of Web site content, comply with certain standards for notice, choice, security and access. Courts may also adopt these developing standards. In many cases, the specific limitations imposed by these standards are subject to interpretation by courts and other governmental authorities. We believe that we are in compliance with the consumer protection standards that apply to our Web sites, but a determination by a state or federal agency or court that any of our practices do not meet these standards could result in liability and adversely affect our business. New interpretations of these standards could also require us to incur additional costs and restrict our business operations. In addition, claims that we are violating any such standards could, even if we are not found liable, be expensive and time-consuming to defend and could result in adverse publicity that could harm our business. In February 2009 the FTC published Self Regulatory Principles for Online Behavioral Advertising to address consumer privacy issues that may arise from so-called “behavioral advertising” (i.e., the tracking of online activities) and to encourage industry self-regulation. These principles serve as guidelines to industry. In addition, there is the possibility of proposed legislation, as well as of enforcement activities, relating to behavioral advertising. To the extent that our existing practices are inconsistent with the final principles, with proposed legislation and/or with future enforcement activities, our business may become subject to restrictions that could reduce our revenues or increase our cost of doing business. Data Protection Regulation. With the recent increase in publicity regarding data breaches resulting in improper dissemination of consumer information, many states have passed laws regulating the actions that a business must take if it experiences a data breach, such as prompt disclosure to affected customers. Generally, these laws are limited to electronic data and make some exemptions for smaller breaches. Congress has also been considering similar federal legislation relating to data breaches. The FTC has also prosecuted some data breach cases as unfair and/or deceptive acts or practices under the FTC Act. We intend to continue to comprehensively protect all consumer data and to comply with all applicable laws regarding the protection of this data. CAN-SPAM Act. On January 1, 2004, the Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003, or the CAN-SPAM Act, became effective. The CAN-SPAM Act regulates commercial emails, provides a right on the part of the recipient to request the sender to stop sending messages, and 22 Table of Contents establishes penalties for the sending of email messages that are intended to deceive the recipient as to source or content. Under the CAN-SPAM Act, senders of commercial emails (and other persons who initiate those emails) are required to make sure that those emails do not contain false or misleading transmission information. Commercial emails are required to include a valid return email address and other subject heading information so that the sender and the Internet location from which the message has been sent are accurately identified. Recipients must be furnished with an electronic method of informing the sender of the recipient’s decision to not receive further commercial emails. In addition, the email must include a postal address of the sender and notice that the email is an advertisement. We are applying the CAN-SPAM requirements to these email communications, and believe that our email practices comply with the requirements of the CAN-SPAM Act, even though we believe that FTC regulations issued in May 2008 confirmed our existing understanding that these email newsletter communications are not generally commercial emails. Many states have also enacted anti-spam laws. The CAN-SPAM Act preempts many of these statutes. To the extent that these laws are not preempted, we believe that our email practices comply with these laws. Regulation of Advertisements Sent by Fax. Section 227 of the Communications Act, which codifies the provisions of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 (or TCPA), prohibits the transmission of an “unsolicited advertisement” via facsimile to a third party without the consent of that third party. An “unsolicited advertisement” is defined broadly to include any material advertising the commercial availability or quality of any property, goods or services. In 2005, the Junk Fax Prevention Act (or JFPA) was signed into law. The JFPA codified a previous interpretation of the TCPA by the Federal Communications Commission (or FCC) that a commercial fax is not “unsolicited” if the transmitting entity has an “established business relationship,” as defined by the JFPA and applicable FCC regulations, with the recipient. In 2006, the FCC issued its final rules under the JFPA, which became effective on August 1, 2006. In the rules, the FCC confirmed that transactional faxes are permitted. It defined a transactional fax as one that facilitates, completes or confirms the commercial transaction that the recipient has previously agreed to enter into with the sender. The FCC stated that these faxes are not advertisements that are prohibited by the TCPA. The FCC also recognized that, if a transactional fax has a de minimis amount of advertising information on it, that alone does not convert a transactional fax into an unsolicited advertisement. In addressing the so-called “EBR exemption” to the TCPA’s prohibition on unsolicited facsimile advertisements, the FCC adopted the JFPA’s definition of an “established business relationship” or “EBR,” which includes a voluntary two-way communication between a person and a business. The FCC rules specify that commercial faxes generally may be sent to those who have made an inquiry of or application to a sender within a prescribed period of time. The FCC rules do not prohibit faxed communications that contain only information, such as news articles, updates or other similar general information. States from time to time have enacted, or have attempted to enact, their own requirements pertaining to the transmission of commercial faxes. These state requirements often, but not always, track the terms of the TCPA, the JFPA, and the FCC’s regulations. To the extent state commercial fax requirements have conflicted directly with federal requirements, they have to date been successfully challenged. We cannot predict the outcome of the FCC’s future rulemaking proceedings, the extent to which states may successfully enact more restrictive commercial fax laws in the future, or the outcomes of any judicial challenges to those laws. We transmit commercial faxes to physician office practices in connection with our The WebMD Little Blue Book and physician appointment businesses, and we intend to comply with all applicable federal and state requirements governing the transmission of such faxes. COPPA. The Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, or COPPA, applies to operators of commercial Web sites and online services directed to U.S. children under the age of 13 that collect personal information from children, and to operators of general audience sites with actual knowledge that they are collecting information from U.S. children under the age of 13. Our sites are not directed at children and our general audience site, WebMD Health, states that no one under the applicable age is entitled to use the site. In addition, we employ a kick-out procedure whereby users identifying themselves as being under the age of 13 during the registration process are not allowed to register for the site’s member only services, such as message boards and live chat events. We believe that we are in compliance with COPPA. 23 Table of Contents Regulation of Contests and Sweepstakes. We conduct contests and sweepstakes in some of our marketing channels. The federal Deceptive Mail Prevention and Enforcement Act and some state prize, gift or sweepstakes statutes may apply to these promotions. We believe that we are in compliance with any applicable law or regulation when we run these promotions. FACTA. In an effort to reduce the risk of identity theft from the improper disposal of consumer information, Congress passed the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (or FACTA), which requires businesses to take reasonable measures to prevent unauthorized access to such information. FACTA’s disposal standards are flexible and allow businesses discretion in determining what measures are reasonable based upon the sensitivity of the information, the costs and benefits of different disposal methods and relevant changes in technology. We believe that we are in compliance with FACTA. Medical Professional Regulation The practice of most healthcare professions requires licensing under applicable state law. In addition, the laws in some states prohibit business entities from practicing medicine, which is referred to as the prohibition against the corporate practice of medicine. We do not believe that we engage in the practice of medicine, and we have attempted to structure our Web sites, strategic relationships and other operations to avoid violating these state licensing and professional practice laws. We do not believe that we provide professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. We employ and contract with physicians who provide only medical information to consumers, and we have no intention to provide medical care or advice. A state, however, may determine that some portion of our business violates these laws and may seek to have us discontinue those portions or subject us to penalties or licensure requirements. Any determination that we are a healthcare provider and acted improperly as a healthcare provider may result in liability to us. Federal False Claims Act The Federal False Claims Act imposes liability on any person or entity who, among other things, knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment by a Federal healthcare program. The whistleblower (or “qui tam”) provisions of the False Claims Act allow a private individual to bring actions on behalf of the Federal government alleging that the defendant has submitted a false claim to the federal government and to share in any monetary recovery. After the filing of a qui tam suit, the Federal government must determine whether it will intervene and control the case and, if it does not, the private individual may pursue the claim. In addition, various states have enacted false claim laws analogous to the Federal False Claims Act, and many of these state laws apply where a claim is submitted to any third-party payor and not merely a federal healthcare program. When an entity is determined to have violated the False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties. It is not clear whether there is a basis for the application of the False Claims Act to the types of services that WebMD provides. We are aware that on February 10, 2009, the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts unsealed portions of a qui tam complaint that names several companies as defendants including WebMD. United States ex rel. v. Amgen, et.al. Civil Action No. 06-10972WGY. The allegations in the complaint appear to relate principally to alleged off-label promotion of two prescription drugs by a pharmaceutical manufacturer. The action does not appear to focus on WebMD. WebMD has not been served with any legal process with respect to this action and has been informed that the Federal government has not yet determined whether it will intervene as to any of the claims in the complaint or against any defendant. WedMD believes that it complies with the rules and regulations applicable to the provision of its services. Anti-Kickback Laws There are federal and state laws that govern patient referrals, physician financial relationships and inducements to healthcare providers and patients. The federal healthcare program’s anti-kickback law prohibits any person or entity from offering, paying, soliciting or receiving anything of value, directly or indirectly, for the referral of patients covered by Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs or the leasing, 24 Table of Contents purchasing, ordering or arranging for or recommending the lease, purchase or order of any item, good, facility or service covered by these programs. Many states also have similar anti-kickback laws that are not necessarily limited to items or services for which payment is made by a federal healthcare program. These laws are applicable to manufacturers and distributors and, therefore, may restrict how we and some of our customers market products to healthcare providers, including e-details. Also, in 2002, the Office of the Inspector General (or OIG) of the United States Department of Health and Human Services (or HHS), the federal government agency responsible for interpreting the federal anti-kickback law, issued an advisory opinion that concluded that the sale of advertising and sponsorships to healthcare providers and vendors by Web-based information services implicates the federal anti-kickback law. However, the advisory opinion suggests that enforcement action will not result if the fees paid represent fair market value for the advertising/sponsorship arrangements, the fees do not vary based on the volume or value of business generated by the advertising and the advertising/sponsorship relationships are clearly identified as such to users. We carefully review our practices with regulatory experts in an effort to ensure that we comply with all applicable laws. However, the laws in this area are both broad and vague, and it is often difficult or impossible to determine precisely how the laws will be applied, particularly to new services. Penalties for violating the federal anti-kickback law include imprisonment, fines and exclusion from participating, directly or indirectly, in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. Any determination by a state or federal regulatory agency that any of our practices violate any of these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties and require us to change or terminate some portions of our business and could have an adverse effect on our business. Even an unsuccessful challenge by regulatory authorities of our practices could cause us adverse publicity and be costly for us to respond to. Regulation of Wellness Incentive Programs Certain provisions of HIPAA (commonly referred to as the HIPAA nondiscrimination provisions) generally prohibit group health plans from charging similarly situated individuals different premiums or contributions or imposing different deductible, co-payment, or other cost-sharing requirements based on a “health factor.” Such differentials are, however, acceptable under the HIPAA nondiscrimination provisions if the differentials are applied through “wellness programs.” The Department of Labor, in coordination with the Department of the Treasury and HHS, has issued regulations that define “wellness programs” for purposes of the HIPAA nondiscrimination provisions, establishing specific requirements for wellness programs that reward participants who satisfy a standard related to a health factor. These requirements include (1) limiting the amount of the wellness program’s rewards, (2) the wellness program being designed to promote good health and prevent disease, (3) giving those eligible to participate in the wellness program the opportunity to qualify for the reward at least once a year, (4) providing a reward that’s available to all similarly situated individuals, and (5) requiring disclosure of reasonable alternative standards that must be available under the wellness program. Although HIPAA and its regulations state that certain excepted benefits, including supplemental benefits, are not subject to the wellness program rules, it does not define the term “similar supplemental coverage.” On December 7, 2007, the Department of Labor, in coordination with the Department of the Treasury and HHS, released Field Assistance Bulletin No. 2007-04 (FAB 2007-04) in response to the development of questionable health and wellness programs that were marketed as “similar supplemental coverage.” FAB 2007-04 clarifies the rules for supplemental programs and provides that supplemental benefits under a wellness program cannot discriminate on the basis of a health factor. With these new requirements in place, wellness programs that require individuals to meet certain health factors can no longer be considered supplemental and thus have to comply with HIPAA wellness program regulations described in the immediately preceding paragraph. According to FAB 2007-04, programs that do not meet these requirements may be subject to enforcement actions. We provide certain services related to wellness programs as part of our private portals business. See “Our Online Services — Our Private Portals: WebMD Health Services” above. We believe that we are in compliance with the laws and regulations applicable to these services. 25 Table of Contents International Regulation The WebMD Health Network is not directed to non-U.S. users; and nearly all of the users of our private portals are U.S. employees or plan members. As a result, we do not believe that we currently conduct our business in a manner that subjects us to international data regulation in any material respect. However, one element of our growth strategy is to seek to expand our online services to markets outside the United States. Generally, we expect that we would accomplish this through partnerships or joint ventures with other companies having expertise in the specific country or region, as was the case with our entry into the physician portal marketplace in Latin America, Spain and Portugal in 2007. Many countries and governmental bodies have, or are developing, laws that may apply to online health information services of the types we provide or to Internet sites generally, including laws regarding the collection, use, storage and dissemination of personal information or patient data. To the extent our operations are located within their jurisdiction or are directed at individuals within their jurisdiction, these laws may apply to us. In addition, those governments may attempt to apply such laws extraterritorially or through treaties or other arrangements with U.S. governmental entities. To the extent we fail to accurately anticipate the application or interpretation of these laws, we could be subject to liability and adverse publicity, which could negatively affect our business. In addition, these laws may impose additional operational requirements or restrictions on our business, and increase our cost of doing business. OTHER INFORMATION Employees As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately 1,300 employees. Since our initial public offering, we have continued to rely on HLTH to provide us with certain services for our business pursuant to the Services Agreement we entered into with HLTH in September 2005. We expect that we would have to hire additional employees in order to provide all such services internally. Intellectual Property We use trademarks, trade names and service marks for our products and services, including those listed below the Table of Contents of this Annual Report. We also use other registered and unregistered trademarks and service marks for our products and services. In addition, we have registered domain names, including “webmd.com” and “medscape.com” and the other domain names listed in this Annual Report. If we are unable to protect our marks and domain names adequately, that could have a material adverse effect on our business and hurt us in establishing and maintaining our brands. We rely upon a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, license agreements, confidentiality procedures, employee and client nondisclosure agreements and technical measures to protect intellectual property used in our businesses. We also rely on a variety of intellectual property rights licensed from third parties, including Internet server software and healthcare content used on our Web sites. These third-party licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Our loss of or inability to maintain or obtain upgrades to any of these licenses could significantly harm us. In addition, because we license content from third parties, we may be exposed to copyright infringement actions if these parties are subject to claims regarding the origin and ownership of that content. Seasonality For a discussion of seasonality affecting our business, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Seasonality” in Item 7 below. Other To the extent required by Item 1 of Form 10-K, the information contained in Item 7 of this Annual Report is hereby incorporated by reference in this Item 1. 26 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors This section describes circumstances or events that could have a negative effect on our financial results or operations or that could change, for the worse, existing trends in some or all of our businesses. The occurrence of one or more of the circumstances or events described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or on the trading prices of the Class A Common Stock that we have issued or securities we may issue in the future. The risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect our business and operations. Risks Related to Our Operations and the Healthcare Content We Provide If we are unable to provide content and services that attract and retain users to The WebMD Health Network on a consistent basis, our advertising and sponsorship revenue could be reduced Users of The WebMD Health Network have numerous other online and offline sources of healthcare information services. Our ability to compete for user traffic on our public portals depends upon our ability to make available a variety of health and medical content, decision-support applications and other services that meet the needs of a variety of types of users, including consumers, physicians and other healthcare professionals, with a variety of reasons for seeking information. Our ability to do so depends, in turn, on: • our ability to hire and retain qualified authors, journalists and independent writers; • our ability to license quality content from third parties; and • our ability to monitor and respond to increases and decreases in user interest in specific topics. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to develop or acquire needed content, applications and tools at a reasonable cost. In addition, since consumer users of our public portals may be attracted to The WebMD Health Network as a result of a specific condition or for a specific purpose, it is difficult for us to predict the rate at which they will return to the public portals. Because we generate revenue by, among other things, selling sponsorships of specific pages, sections or events on The WebMD Health Network, a decline in user traffic levels or a reduction in the number of pages viewed by users could cause our revenue to decrease and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Developing and implementing new and updated applications, features and services for our public and private portals may be more difficult than expected, may take longer and cost more than expected and may not result in sufficient increases in revenue to justify the costs Attracting and retaining users of our public portals and clients for our private portals requires us to continue to improve the technology underlying those portals and to continue to develop new and updated applications, features and services for those portals. If we are unable to do so on a timely basis or if we are unable to implement new applications, features and services without disruption to our existing ones, we may lose potential users and clients. We rely on a combination of internal development, strategic relationships, licensing and acquisitions to develop our portals and related applications, features and services. Our development and/or implementation of new technologies, applications, features and services may cost more than expected, may take longer than originally expected, may require more testing than originally anticipated and may require the acquisition of additional personnel and other resources. There can be no assurance that the revenue opportunities from any new or updated technologies, applications, features or services will justify the amounts spent. We face significant competition for our healthcare information products and services The markets for healthcare information products and services are intensely competitive, continually evolving and, in some cases, subject to rapid change. • Our public portals face competition from numerous other companies, both in attracting users and in generating revenue from advertisers and sponsors. We compete for users with online services and Web sites that provide health-related information, including both commercial sites and not-for-profit sites. 27 Table of Contents We compete for advertisers and sponsors with: health-related Web sites; general purpose consumer Web sites that offer specialized health sub-channels; other high-traffic Web sites that include both healthcare-related and non-healthcare-related content and services; search engines that provide specialized health search; and advertising networks that aggregate traffic from multiple sites. Our public portals also face competition from offline publications and information services. • Our private portals compete with: providers of healthcare decision-support tools and online health management applications, including personal health records; wellness and disease management vendors; and health information services and health management offerings of healthcare benefits companies and their affiliates. • Our Publishing and Other Services segment’s products and services compete with numerous other offline publications, some of which have better access to traditional distribution channels than we have, and also compete with online information sources. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and other resources than we do. These organizations may be better known than we are and have more customers or users than we do. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against these organizations or any alliances they have formed or may form. Since there are no substantial barriers to entry into the markets in which our public portals participate, we expect that competitors will continue to enter these markets. Failure to maintain and enhance the “WebMD” brand could have a material adverse effect on our business We believe that the “WebMD” brand identity that we have developed has contributed to the success of our business and has helped us achieve recognition as a trusted source of health and wellness information. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing that brand is important to expanding the user base for our public portals, to our relationships with sponsors and advertisers and to our ability to gain additional employer and healthcare payer clients for our private portals. We have expended considerable resources on establishing and enhancing the “WebMD” brand and our other brands, and we have developed policies and procedures designed to preserve and enhance our brands, including editorial procedures designed to provide quality control of the information we publish. We expect to continue to devote resources and efforts to maintain and enhance our brands. However, we may not be able to successfully maintain or enhance awareness of our brands, and events outside of our control may have a negative effect on our brands. If we are unable to maintain or enhance awareness of our brand, and do so in a cost-effective manner, our business could be adversely affected. Our online businesses have a limited operating history Our online businesses have a limited operating history and participate in relatively new markets. These markets, and our online businesses, have undergone significant changes during their short history and can be expected to continue to change. Many companies with business plans based on providing healthcare information and related services through the Internet have failed to be profitable and some have filed for bankruptcy and/or ceased operations. Even if demand from users exists, we cannot assure you that our businesses will continue to be profitable. Our failure to attract and retain qualified executives and employees may have a material adverse effect on our business Our business depends largely on the skills, experience and performance of key members of our management team. We also depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified writers and editors, software developers and other technical personnel and sales and marketing personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the healthcare information services and Internet industries is intense. We cannot assure you that we will be able to hire or retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel to meet our requirements, or that we will be able to do so at salary and benefit costs that are acceptable to us. Failure to do so may have an adverse effect on our business. 28 Table of Contents If we are unable to provide healthcare content for our offline publications that attracts and retains users, our revenue will be reduced Interest in our offline publications, such as The WebMD Little Blue Book, is based upon our ability to make available up-to-date health content that meets the needs of our physician users. Although we have been able to continue to update and maintain the physician practice information that we publish in The WebMD Little Blue Book, if we are unable to continue to do so for any reason, the value of The WebMD Little Blue Book would diminish and interest in this publication and advertising in this publication would be adversely affected. WebMD the Magazine was launched in April 2005 and, as a result, has a very short operating history. We cannot assure you that WebMD the Magazine will be able to attract and retain the advertisers needed to make this publication successful in the future. The timing of our advertising and sponsorship revenue may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and is subject to factors beyond our control, including regulatory changes affecting advertising and promotion of drugs and medical devices and general economic conditions Our advertising and sponsorship revenue, which accounted for approximately 75% of our total Online Services segment revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008, may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are not in our control, and some of which may be difficult to forecast accurately, including potential effects on demand for our services as a result of regulatory changes affecting advertising and promotion of drugs and medical devices and general economic conditions. The majority of our advertising and sponsorship programs are for terms of approximately four to twelve months. We have relatively few longer term advertising and sponsorship programs. We cannot assure you that our current advertisers and sponsors will continue to use our services beyond the terms of their existing contracts or that they will enter into any additional contracts. The time between the date of initial contact with a potential advertiser or sponsor regarding a specific program and the execution of a contract with the advertiser or sponsor for that program may be lengthy, especially for larger contracts, and may be subject to delays over which we have little or no control, including as a result of budgetary constraints of the advertiser or sponsor or their need for internal approvals. Other factors that could affect the timing of contracting for specific programs with advertisers and sponsors, or receipt of revenue under such contracts, include: • the timing of FDA approval for new products or for new approved uses for existing products; • the timing of FDA approval of generic products that compete with existing brand name products; • the timing of withdrawals of products from the market; • seasonal factors relating to the prevalence of specific health conditions and other seasonal factors that may affect the timing of promotional campaigns for specific products; and • the scheduling of conferences for physicians and other healthcare professionals. We may be unsuccessful in our efforts to increase advertising and sponsorship revenue from consumer products companies Most of our advertising and sponsorship revenue has, in the past, come from pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies. We have been focusing on increasing sponsorship revenue from consumer products companies that are interested in communicating health-related or safety-related information about their products to our audience. However, while a number of consumer products companies have indicated an intent to increase the portion of their promotional spending used on the Internet, we cannot assure you that these advertisers and sponsors will find our consumer Web sites to be as effective as other Web sites or traditional media for promoting their products and services. If we encounter difficulties in competing with the other alternatives available to consumer products companies, this portion of our business may develop more slowly than we expect or may fail to develop. In addition, revenues from consumer products companies are more likely to reflect general economic conditions, and to be reduced to a greater extent during economic downturns or recessions, than revenues from pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies. 29 Table of Contents Lengthy sales and implementation cycles for our private online portals make it difficult to forecast our revenues from these applications and may have an adverse impact on our business The period from our initial contact with a potential client for a private online portal and the first purchase of our solution by the client is difficult to predict. In the past, this period has generally ranged from six to twelve months, but in some cases has been longer. Potential sales may be subject to delays or cancellations due to a client’s internal procedures for approving large expenditures and other factors beyond our control, including the effect of general economic conditions on the willingness of potential clients to commit to licensing our private portals. The time it takes to implement a private online portal is also difficult to predict and has lasted as long as six months from contract execution to the commencement of live operation. Implementation may be subject to delays based on the availability of the internal resources of the client that are needed and other factors outside of our control. As a result, we have limited ability to forecast the timing of revenue from new clients. This, in turn, makes it more difficult to predict our financial performance from quarter to quarter. During the sales cycle and the implementation period, we may expend substantial time, effort and money preparing contract proposals, negotiating contracts and implementing the private online portal without receiving any related revenue. In addition, many of the expenses related to providing private online portals are relatively fixed in the short term, including personnel costs and technology and infrastructure costs. Even if our private portal revenue is lower than expected, we may not be able to reduce related short-term spending in response. Any shortfall in such revenue would have a direct impact on our results of operations. Our ability to provide comparative information on hospital cost and quality depends on our ability to obtain the required data on a timely basis and, if we are unable to do so, our private portal services would be less attractive to clients We provide, in connection with our private portal services, comparative information about hospital cost and quality. Our ability to provide this information depends on our ability to obtain comprehensive, reliable data. We currently obtain this data from a number of public and private sources, including the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), 24 individual states and the Leapfrog Group. We cannot provide assurance that we would be able to find alternative sources for this data on acceptable terms and conditions. Accordingly, our business could be negatively impacted if CMS or our other data sources cease to make such information available or impose terms and conditions for making it available that are not consistent with our planned usage. In addition, the quality of the comparative information services we provide depends on the reliability of the information that we are able to obtain. If the information we use to provide these services contains errors or is otherwise unreliable, we could lose clients and our reputation could be damaged. Our ability to renew existing licenses with employers and health plans will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to increase usage of our private portal services by their employees and plan members In a healthcare market where a greater share of the responsibility for healthcare costs and decision-making has been increasingly shifting to consumers, use of information technology (including personal health records) to assist consumers in making informed decisions about healthcare has also increased. We believe that through our WebMD Health and Benefits Manager tools, including our personal health record application, we are well positioned to play a role in this consumer-directed healthcare environment, and these services will be a significant driver for the growth of our private portals during the next several years. However, our growth strategy depends, in part, on increasing usage of our private portal services by our employer and health plan clients’ employees and members, respectively. Increasing usage of our services requires us to continue to deliver and improve the underlying technology and develop new and updated applications, features and services. In addition, we face competition in the area of healthcare decision-support tools and online health management applications and health information services. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and other resources than we do, and may be better known than we are. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to meet our development and implementation goals, nor that we will be able to compete successfully against other vendors offering competitive services and, as a result, may experience static or diminished usage for our private portal services and possible non-renewals of our license agreements. 30 Table of Contents We may be subject to claims brought against us as a result of content we provide Consumers access health-related information through our online services, including information regarding particular medical conditions and possible adverse reactions or side effects from medications. If our content, or content we obtain from third parties, contains inaccuracies, it is possible that consumers, employees, health plan members or others may sue us for various causes of action. Although our Web sites contain terms and conditions, including disclaimers of liability, that are intended to reduce or eliminate our liability, the law governing the validity and enforceability of online agreements and other electronic transactions is evolving. We could be subject to claims by third parties that our online agreements with consumers and physicians that provide the terms and conditions for use of our public or private portals are unenforceable. A finding by a court that these agreements are invalid and that we are subject to liability could harm our business and require costly changes to our business. We have editorial procedures in place to provide quality control of the information that we publish or provide. However, we cannot assure you that our editorial and other quality control procedures will be sufficient to ensure that there are no errors or omissions in particular content. Even if potential claims do not result in liability to us, investigating and defending against these claims could be expensive and time consuming and could divert management’s attention away from our operations. In addition, our business is based on establishing the reputation of our portals as trustworthy and dependable sources of healthcare information. Allegations of impropriety or inaccuracy, even if unfounded, could harm our reputation and business. Expansion to markets outside the United States will subject us to additional risks One element of our growth strategy is to seek to expand our online services to markets outside the United States. Generally, we expect that we would accomplish this through partnerships or joint ventures with other companies having expertise in the specific country or region. However, our participation in international markets will still be subject to certain risks beyond those applicable to our operations in the United States, such as: • difficulties in staffing and managing operations outside of the United States; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • burdens of complying with a wide variety of legal, regulatory and market requirements; • variability of economic and political conditions, including the extent of the impact of recent adverse economic conditions in markets outside the United States; • tariffs or other trade barriers; • costs of providing and marketing products and services in different markets; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on repatriation of earnings; and • difficulties in protecting intellectual property. Risks Related to the Internet and Our Technological Infrastructure Any service interruption or failure in the systems that we use to provide online services could harm our business Our online services are designed to operate 24 hours a day, seven days a week, without interruption. However, we have experienced and expect that we will in the future experience interruptions and delays in services and availability from time to time. We rely on internal systems as well as third-party vendors, including data center providers and bandwidth providers, to provide our online services. We may not maintain redundant systems or facilities for some of these services. In the event of a catastrophic event with respect to one or more of these systems or facilities, we may experience an extended period of system unavailability, which could negatively impact our relationship with users. In addition, system failures may result in loss of data, including user registration data, content, and other data critical to the operation of our online services, which could cause significant harm to our business and our reputation. 31 Table of Contents To operate without interruption or loss of data, both we and our service providers must guard against: • damage from fire, power loss and other natural disasters; • communications failures; • software and hardware errors, failures and crashes; • security breaches, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems; and • other potential service interruptions. Any disruption in the network access or co-location services provided by third-party providers to us or any failure by these third-party providers or our own systems to handle current or higher volume of use could significantly harm our business. We exercise little control over these third-party vendors, which increases our vulnerability to problems with services they provide. Any errors, failures, interruptions or delays experienced in connection with these third-party technologies and information services or our own systems could negatively impact our relationships with users and adversely affect our brand and our business and could expose us to liabilities to third parties. Although we maintain insurance for our business, the coverage under our policies may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at an acceptable cost. Implementation of additions to or changes in hardware and software platforms used to deliver our online services may result in performance problems and may not provide the additional functionality that was expected From time to time, we implement additions to or changes in the hardware and software platforms we use for providing our online services. During and after the implementation of additions or changes, a platform may not perform as expected, which could result in interruptions in operations, an increase in response time or an inability to track performance metrics. In addition, in connection with integrating acquired businesses, we may move their operations to our hardware and software platforms or make other changes, any of which could result in interruptions in those operations. Any significant interruption in our ability to operate any of our online services could have an adverse effect on our relationships with users and clients and, as a result, on our financial results. We rely on a combination of purchasing, licensing, internal development, and acquisitions to develop our hardware and software platforms. Our implementation of additions to or changes in these platforms may cost more than originally expected, may take longer than originally expected, and may require more testing than originally anticipated. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that additions to or changes in these platforms will provide the additional functionality and other benefits that were originally expected. If the systems we use to provide online portals experience security breaches or are otherwise perceived to be insecure, our business could suffer We retain and transmit confidential information, including personal health records, in the processing centers and other facilities we use to provide online services. It is critical that these facilities and infrastructure remain secure and be perceived by the marketplace as secure. A security breach could damage our reputation or result in liability. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches and hackers or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. Despite the implementation of security measures, this infrastructure or other systems that we interface with, including the Internet and related systems, may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, hackers, improper employee or contractor access, computer viruses, programming errors, denial-of-service attacks or other attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. Any compromise of our security, whether as a result of our own systems or the systems that they interface with, could reduce demand for our services and could subject us to legal claims from our clients and users, including for breach of contract or breach of warranty. Our online services are dependent on the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure Our ability to deliver our online services is dependent on the development and maintenance of the infrastructure of the Internet by third parties. The Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damages to portions of its infrastructure, and it could face outages and delays in the 32 Table of Contents future. The Internet has also experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, significant growth in the number of users and the amount of traffic. If the Internet continues to experience increased usage, the Internet infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it. In addition, the reliability and performance of the Internet may be harmed by increased usage or by denial-of-service attacks. Any resulting interruptions in our services or increases in response time could, if significant, result in a loss of potential or existing users of and advertisers and sponsors on our Web sites and, if sustained or repeated, could reduce the attractiveness of our services. Customers who utilize our online services depend on Internet service providers and other Web site operators for access to our Web sites. All of these providers have experienced significant outages in the past and could experience outages, delays and other difficulties in the future due to system failures unrelated to our systems. Any such outages or other failures on their part could reduce traffic to our Web sites. Third parties may challenge the enforceability of our online agreements The law governing the validity and enforceability of online agreements and other electronic transactions is evolving. We could be subject to claims by third parties that the online terms and conditions for use of our Web sites, including disclaimers or limitations of liability, are unenforceable. A finding by a court that these terms and conditions or other online agreements are invalid could harm our business. We could be subject to breach of warranty or other claims by clients of our online portals if the software and systems we use to provide them contain errors or experience failures Errors in the software and systems we use could cause serious problems for clients of our online portals. We may fail to meet contractual performance standards or client expectations. Clients of our online portals may seek compensation from us or may seek to terminate their agreements with us, withhold payments due to us, seek refunds from us of part or all of the fees charged under those agreements or initiate litigation or other dispute resolution procedures. In addition, we could face breach of warranty or other claims by clients or additional development costs. Our software and systems are inherently complex and, despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that they will perform as planned. We attempt to limit, by contract, our liability to our clients for damages arising from our negligence, errors or mistakes. However, contractual limitations on liability may not be enforceable in certain circumstances or may otherwise not provide sufficient protection to us from liability for damages. We maintain liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors and omissions. However, it is possible that claims could exceed the amount of our applicable insurance coverage, if any, or that this coverage may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, investigating and defending against them would be expensive and time consuming and could divert management’s attention away from our operations. In addition, negative publicity caused by these events may delay or hinder market acceptance of our services, including unrelated services. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property and proprietary rights Our intellectual property and proprietary rights are important to our businesses. The steps that we take to protect our intellectual property, proprietary information and trade secrets may prove to be inadequate and, whether or not adequate, may be expensive. We rely on a combination of trade secret, patent and other intellectual property laws and confidentiality procedures and non-disclosure contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that we will be able to detect potential or actual misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property, proprietary information or trade secrets. Even if we detect misappropriation or infringement by a third party, we cannot assure you that we will be able to enforce our rights at a reasonable cost, or at all. In addition, our rights to intellectual property, proprietary information and trade secrets may not prevent independent third-party development and commercialization of competing products or services. 33 Table of Contents Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from providing certain services, which may harm our business We could be subject to claims that we are misappropriating or infringing intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others. These claims, even if not meritorious, could be expensive to defend and divert management’s attention from our operations. If we become liable to third parties for infringing these rights, we could be required to pay a substantial damage award and to develop non-infringing technology, obtain a license or cease selling the products or services that use or contain the infringing intellectual property. We may be unable to develop non-infringing products or services or obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may also be required to indemnify our customers if they become subject to third-party claims relating to intellectual property that we license or otherwise provide to them, which could be costly. Risks Related to the Healthcare Industry, Healthcare Regulation and Internet Regulation Developments in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business Most of our revenue is derived from the healthcare industry and could be affected by changes affecting healthcare spending. We are particularly dependent on pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies for our advertising and sponsorship revenue. General reductions in expenditures by healthcare industry participants could result from, among other things: • government regulation or private initiatives that affect the manner in which healthcare providers interact with patients, payers or other healthcare industry participants, including changes in pricing or means of delivery of healthcare products and services; • consolidation of healthcare industry participants; • reductions in governmental funding for healthcare; and • adverse changes in business or economic conditions affecting healthcare payers or providers, pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical device companies or other healthcare industry participants. Even if general expenditures by industry participants remain the same or increase, developments in the healthcare industry may result in reduced spending in some or all of the specific market segments that we serve or are planning to serve. For example, use of our products and services could be affected by: • changes in the design of health insurance plans; • a decrease in the number of new drugs or medical devices coming to market; and • decreases in marketing expenditures by pharmaceutical or medical device companies, including as a result of governmental regulation or private initiatives that discourage or prohibit advertising or sponsorship activities by pharmaceutical or medical device companies. In addition, our customers’ expectations regarding pending or potential industry developments may also affect their budgeting processes and spending plans with respect to products and services of the types we provide. The healthcare industry has changed significantly in recent years and we expect that significant changes will continue to occur. However, the timing and impact of developments in the healthcare industry are difficult to predict. We cannot assure you that the markets for our products and services will continue to exist at current levels or that we will have adequate technical, financial and marketing resources to react to changes in those markets. Government regulation of healthcare creates risks and challenges with respect to our compliance efforts and our business strategies The healthcare industry is highly regulated and is subject to changing political, legislative, regulatory and other influences. Existing and new laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry could create unexpected liabilities for us, could cause us to incur additional costs and could restrict our operations. Many healthcare laws are complex, and their application to specific products and services may not be clear. In particular, many existing healthcare laws and regulations, when enacted, did not anticipate the healthcare information services that we provide. However, these laws and regulations may nonetheless be applied to our products and services. Our failure to accurately anticipate the application of these laws and regulations, or 34 Table of Contents other failure to comply, could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity and negatively affect our businesses. Some of the risks we face from healthcare regulation are as follows: • Regulation of Drug and Medical Device Advertising and Promotion. The WebMD Health Network provides services involving advertising and promotion of prescription and over-the-counter drugs and medical devices. If the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) finds that any information on The WebMD Health Network or in WebMD the Magazine violates FDA or FTC regulations, they may take regulatory or judicial action against us and/or the advertiser or sponsor of that information. State attorneys general may also take similar action based on their state’s consumer protection statutes. Any increase or change in regulation of drug or medical device advertising and promotion could make it more difficult for us to contract for sponsorships and advertising. Members of Congress, physician groups and others have criticized the FDA’s current policies, and have called for restrictions on advertising of prescription drugs to consumers and increased FDA enforcement. We cannot predict what actions the FDA or industry participants may take in response to these criticisms. It is also possible that new laws would be enacted that impose restrictions on such advertising. In addition, recent private industry initiatives have resulted in voluntary restrictions, which advertisers and sponsors have agreed to follow. Our advertising and sponsorship revenue could be materially reduced by additional restrictions on the advertising of prescription drugs and medical devices to consumers, whether imposed by law or regulation or required under policies adopted by industry members. • Anti-kickback Laws. There are federal and state laws that govern patient referrals, physician financial relationships and inducements to healthcare providers and patients. The federal healthcare programs’ anti-kickback law prohibits any person or entity from offering, paying, soliciting or receiving anything of value, directly or indirectly, for the referral of patients covered by Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs or the leasing, purchasing, ordering or arranging for or recommending the lease, purchase or order of any item, good, facility or service covered by these programs. Many states also have similar anti-kickback laws that are not necessarily limited to items or services for which payment is made by a federal healthcare program. These laws are applicable to manufacturers and distributors and, therefore, may restrict how we and some of our customers market products to healthcare providers, including e-details. Any determination by a state or federal regulatory agency that any of our practices violate any of these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties and require us to change or terminate some portions of our business and could have an adverse effect on our business. Even an unsuccessful challenge by regulatory authorities of our practices could result in adverse publicity and be costly for us to respond to. • Medical Professional Regulation. The practice of most healthcare professions requires licensing under applicable state law. In addition, the laws in some states prohibit business entities from practicing medicine. If a state determines that some portion of our business violates these laws, it may seek to have us discontinue those portions or subject us to penalties or licensure requirements. Any determination that we are a healthcare provider and have acted improperly as a healthcare provider may result in liability to us. Government regulation of the Internet could adversely affect our business The Internet and its associated technologies are subject to government regulation. However, whether and how existing laws and regulations in various jurisdictions, including privacy and consumer protection laws, apply to the Internet is still uncertain. Our failure, or the failure of our business partners or third-party service providers, to accurately anticipate the application of these laws and regulations to our products and services and the manner in which we deliver them, or any other failure to comply with such laws and regulations, could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity and negatively affect our business. In addition, new laws and regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may be adopted with respect to the Internet and online services, including in areas such as: user privacy, confidentiality, consumer protection, pricing, content, copyrights and patents, and characteristics and quality of products and services. We cannot predict how these laws or regulations will affect our business. Internet user privacy and the use of consumer information to track online activities are major issues both in the United States and abroad. For example, in February 2009, the FTC published Self-Regulatory Principles 35 Table of Contents to govern the tracking of consumers’ activities online in order to deliver advertising targeted to the interests of individual consumers (sometimes referred to as behavioral advertising). These principles serve as guidelines to industry. In addition, there is the possibility of proposed legislation and enforcement activities relating to behavioral advertising. We have privacy policies posted on our Web sites that we believe comply with applicable laws requiring notice to users about our information collection, use and disclosure practices. We also notify users about our information collection, use and disclosure practices relating to data we receive through offline means such as paper health risk assessments. We cannot assure you that the privacy policies and other statements we provide to users of our products and services, or our practices will be found sufficient to protect us from liability or adverse publicity in this area. A determination by a state or federal agency or court that any of our practices do not meet applicable standards, or the implementation of new standards or requirements, could adversely affect our business. We face potential liability related to the privacy and security of personal health information we collect from or on behalf of users of our services Privacy and security of personal health information, particularly personal health information stored or transmitted electronically, is a major issue in the United States. The Privacy Standards and Security Standards under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (or HIPAA) establish a set of national privacy and security standards for the protection of individually identifiable health information by health plans, healthcare clearinghouses and healthcare providers (referred to as covered entities) and their business associates. Currently, only covered entities are directly subject to potential civil and criminal liability under these Standards. However, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”) amends the HIPAA Privacy and Security Standards and makes certain provisions applicable to those portions of our business, such as those managing employee or plan member health information for employers or health plans, that are business associates of covered entities. Currently, we are bound by certain contracts and agreements to use and disclose protected health information in a manner consistent with the Privacy Standards and Security Standards. Beginning on February 17, 2010, some provisions of the HIPAA Privacy and Security rules will apply directly to us. Currently, depending on the facts and circumstances, we could potentially be subject to criminal liability for aiding and abetting or conspiring with a covered entity to violate the Privacy Standards or Security Standards. As of February 17, 2010 we will be directly subject to HIPAA’s criminal and civil penalties. We cannot assure you that we will adequately address the risks created by these Standards. We are unable to predict what changes to these Standards might be made in the future or how those changes, or other changes in applicable laws and regulations, could affect our business. Any new legislation or regulation in the area of privacy of personal information, including personal health information, could affect the way we operate our business and could harm our business. Failure to maintain CME accreditation could adversely affect Medscape, LLC’s ability to provide online CME offerings Medscape, LLC’s continuing medical education (or CME) activities are planned and implemented in accordance with the current Essential Areas and Policies of the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education, or ACCME, which oversees providers of CME credit, and other applicable accreditation standards. ACCME’s standards for commercial support of CME are intended to ensure, among other things, that CME activities of ACCME-accredited providers, such as Medscape, LLC, are independent of “commercial interests,” which are defined as entities that produce, market, re-sell or distribute healthcare goods and services, excluding certain organizations. “Commercial interests,” and entities owned or controlled by “commercial interests,” are ineligible for accreditation by the ACCME. The standards also provide that accredited CME providers may not place their CME content on Web sites owned or controlled by a “commercial interest.” In addition, accredited CME providers may not ask “commercial interests” for speaker or topic suggestions, and are also prohibited from asking “commercial interests” to review CME content prior to delivery. From time to time, ACCME revises its standards for commercial support of CME. As a result of certain past ACCME revisions, we adjusted our corporate structure and made changes to our management and operations intended to allow Medscape, LLC to provide CME activities that are developed independently from 36 Table of Contents programs developed by its sister companies, which may not be independent of “commercial interests.” We believe that these changes allow Medscape, LLC to satisfy the applicable standards. In June 2008, the ACCME published for comment several proposals, including the following: • Potential New Paradigm for Commercial Support: The ACCME stated that due consideration should be given to eliminating commercial support of CME. To frame the debate, the ACCME proposed several possible scenarios: (a) maintaining the current system of commercial support; (b) completely eliminating commercial support; (c) a new paradigm that provides for commercial support if the following conditions are met: (1) educational needs are identified and verified by organizations that do not receive commercial support and are free of financial relationships with industry; (2) the CME addresses a professional practice gap of a particular group of learners that is corroborated by bona fide performance measurements of the learners’ own practice; (3) the CME content is from a continuing education curriculum specified by a bona fide organization or entity; and (4) the CME is verified as free of commercial bias; and (d) an alternative new paradigm in which the four conditions described above would provide a basis for a mechanism to distribute commercial support derived from industry-donated, pooled funds. • Defining Appropriate Interactions between ACCME Accredited Providers and Commercial Supporters. The ACCME has proposed that: (a) accredited providers must not receive communications from commercial interests announcing or prescribing any specific content that would be a preferred, or sought-after, topic for commercially supported CME (e.g., therapeutic area, product-line, patho-physiology); and (b) receiving communications from commercial interests regarding a commercial interest’s internal criteria for providing commercial support would also not be permissible. The comment period for these proposals ended on September 12, 2008. The comments submitted to the ACCME indicated significant backing from the medical profession for commercially-supported CME and, accordingly, we believe that it is unlikely that a proposal for complete elimination of such support would be adopted. However, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the process, including what other alternatives may be considered by ACCME as a result of comments it has received. The elimination of, or restrictions on, commercial support for CME could adversely affect the volume of sponsored online CME programs implemented through our Web sites. Medscape, LLC’s current ACCME accreditation expires at the end of July 2010. In order for Medscape, LLC to renew its accreditation, it will be required to demonstrate to the ACCME that it continues to meet ACCME requirements. If Medscape, LLC fails to maintain its status as an accredited ACCME provider (whether at the time of such renewal or at an earlier time as a result of a failure to comply with existing or additional ACCME standards), it would not be permitted to accredit CME activities for physicians and other healthcare professionals. Instead, Medscape, LLC would be required to use third parties to provide such CME-related services. That, in turn, could discourage potential supporters from engaging Medscape, LLC to develop CME or education-related activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Government regulation and industry initiatives could adversely affect the volume of sponsored online CME programs implemented through our Web sites or require changes to how Medscape, LLC offers CME CME activities may be subject to government oversight or regulation by Congress, the FDA, the Department of Health and Human Services, the federal agency responsible for interpreting certain federal laws relating to healthcare, and by state regulatory agencies. Medscape, LLC and/or the sponsors of the CME activities that Medscape, LLC accredits may be subject to enforcement actions if any of these CME activities are deemed improperly promotional, potentially leading to the termination of sponsorships. During the past several years, educational activities, including CME, directed at physicians have been subject to increased governmental scrutiny to ensure that sponsors do not influence or control the content of the activities. For example, the U.S. Senate Finance Committee conducted an investigation of the sponsorship of CME activities, including an examination of the ACCME’s role in ensuring that CME activities are independent from the influence of their supporters. In response, pharmaceutical companies and medical device companies have developed and implemented internal controls and procedures that promote adherence to applicable regulations and requirements. In implementing these controls and procedures, supporters of CME 37 Table of Contents may interpret the regulations and requirements differently and may implement varying procedures or requirements. These controls and procedures: • may discourage pharmaceutical companies from providing grants for independent educational activities; • may slow their internal approval for such grants; • may reduce the volume of sponsored educational programs that Medscape, LLC produces to levels that are lower than in the past, thereby reducing revenue; and • may require Medscape, LLC to make changes to how it offers or provides educational programs, including CME. In addition, future changes to laws, regulations or accreditation standards, or to the internal compliance programs of supporters or potential supporters, may further discourage, significantly limit, or prohibit supporters or potential supporters from engaging in educational activities with Medscape, LLC, or may require Medscape, LLC to make further changes in the way it offers or provides educational activities. Risks Related to the Relationship between WebMD and HLTH The concentrated ownership of our common stock by HLTH and certain corporate governance arrangements prevent our other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions We have two classes of common stock: • Class A Common Stock, which entitles the holder to one vote per share on all matters submitted to our stockholders; and • Class B Common Stock, which entitles the holder to five votes per share on all matters submitted to our stockholders. HLTH owns 100% of our Class B Common Stock, which represents approximately 83.5% of our outstanding common stock, as of February 20, 2009. These Class B shares collectively represent approximately 96% of the combined voting power of our outstanding common stock. Given its ownership interest, HLTH is able to control the outcome of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. Accordingly, either in its capacity as a stockholder or through its control of our Board of Directors, HLTH is able to control all key decisions regarding our company, including mergers or other business combinations and acquisitions, dispositions of assets, future issuances of our common stock or other securities, the incurrence of debt by us, the payment of dividends on our common stock (including the frequency and the amount of dividends that would be payable on our common stock, a substantial majority of which HLTH owns) and amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. Further, as long as HLTH and its subsidiaries (excluding our company and our subsidiaries) continue to beneficially own shares representing at least a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of our outstanding voting stock, it may take actions required to be taken at a meeting of stockholders without a meeting or a vote and without prior notice to holders of our Class A Common Stock. In addition, HLTH’s controlling interest may discourage a change of control that the holders of our Class A Common Stock may favor. Any of these provisions could be used by HLTH for its own advantage to the detriment of our other stockholders and our company. This in turn may have an adverse effect on the market price of our Class A Common Stock. The interests of HLTH may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders We cannot assure you that the interests of HLTH will coincide with the interests of the other holders of our Common Stock. For example, HLTH could cause us to make acquisitions that increase the amount of our indebtedness or outstanding shares of common stock or sell revenue-generating assets. Also, HLTH or its directors and officers may allocate to HLTH or its other affiliates corporate opportunities that could have been directed to us. So long as HLTH continues to own shares of our Common Stock with significant voting power, HLTH will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. 38 Table of Contents Some of our directors, officers and employees may have potential conflicts of interest as a result of having positions with or owning equity interests in HLTH Martin J. Wygod, in addition to being Chairman of the Board of our company, is Chairman of the Board and Acting Chief Executive Officer of HLTH. Some of our other directors, officers and employees also serve as directors, officers or employees of HLTH. In addition, some of our directors, officers and employees own shares of HLTH’s Common Stock. Furthermore, because our officers and employees have participated in HLTH’s equity compensation plans and because service at our company will, so long as we are a majority-owned subsidiary of HLTH, qualify those persons for continued participation and continued vesting of equity awards under HLTH’s equity plans, many of our officers and employees and some of our directors hold, and may continue to hold, options to purchase HLTH’s Common Stock and shares of HLTH’s Restricted Stock. These arrangements and ownership interests or cash- or equity-based awards could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when directors or officers who own HLTH’s stock or stock options or who participate in HLTH’s benefit plans are faced with decisions that could have different implications for HLTH than they do for us. We cannot assure you that the provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation will adequately address potential conflicts of interest or that potential conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. Provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could adversely affect the value of our Class A Common Stock Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as Delaware corporate law, contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control or changes in our management and Board of Directors that holders of our Class A Common Stock might consider favorable and may prevent them from receiving a takeover premium for their shares. These provisions include, for example, our classified board structure, the disproportionate voting rights of the Class B Common Stock (relative to the Class A Common Stock) and the authorization of our Board of Directors to issue up to 50 million shares of preferred stock without a stockholder vote. In addition, our Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that after the time HLTH and its affiliates cease to own, in the aggregate, a majority of the combined voting power of our outstanding capital stock, stockholders may not act by written consent and may not call special meetings. These provisions apply even if an offer may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our Class A Common Stock could decline. We may be prevented from issuing stock to raise capital, as acquisition consideration or to provide equity incentives to members of our management and Board of Directors Beneficial ownership of at least 80% of the total voting power and value of our capital stock is required in order for HLTH to continue to include us in its consolidated group for federal income tax purposes, and beneficial ownership of at least 80% of the total voting power of our capital stock and 80% of each class of any non-voting capital stock that we may issue is required in order for HLTH to effect a tax-free split-off, spin-off or other similar transaction. Under the terms of the Tax Sharing Agreement that we have entered into with HLTH, we have agreed that we will not knowingly take or fail to take any action that could reasonably be expected to preclude HLTH’s ability to undertake a tax-free split-off or spin-off. This may prevent us from issuing additional equity securities to raise capital, as acquisition consideration or to provide management or director equity incentives. We are included in HLTH’s consolidated tax return and, as a result, both we and HLTH may use each other’s net operating loss carryforwards Due to provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and applicable Treasury regulations relating to the manner and order in which net operating loss carryforwards are utilized when filing consolidated tax returns, a portion of our net operating loss carryforwards may be required to be utilized by HLTH before HLTH would be permitted to utilize its own net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards. Correspondingly, in some situations, such as where HLTH’s NOL carryforwards were generated first, we may be required to utilize a portion of HLTH’s NOL carryforwards before we would have to utilize our own NOL carryforwards. On October 19, 2008, pursuant to the terms of a Termination Agreement, HLTH and WebMD mutually agreed, in light of recent turmoil in financial markets, to terminate the Agreement and Plan of Merger between HLTH and 39 Table of Contents WebMD. Pursuant to the Termination Agreement, HLTH and WebMD amended the Tax Sharing Agreement between them so that, for tax years beginning after December 31, 2007, HLTH is no longer required to reimburse WebMD for use of NOL carryforwards attributable to WebMD that may result from certain extraordinary transactions by HLTH. The Tax Sharing Agreement had not, other than with respect to certain extraordinary transactions by HLTH, required either HLTH or WebMD to reimburse the other party for any net tax savings realized by the consolidated group as a result of the group’s utilization of WebMD’s or HLTH’s NOL carryforwards during the period of consolidation, and that will continue following the amendment. If certain transactions occur with respect to our capital stock or HLTH’s capital stock, we may be unable to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits to reduce our income taxes As of December 31, 2008, we had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $141 million for federal income tax purposes and federal tax credits of approximately $3.6 million, which excludes the impact of any unrecognized tax benefits, residing within the WebMD legal entities. If certain transactions occur with respect to our capital stock or HLTH’s capital stock, including issuances, redemptions, recapitalizations, exercises of options, conversions of convertible debt, purchases or sales by 5%-or-greater shareholders and similar transactions, that result in a cumulative change of more than 50% of the ownership of capital stock, over a three-year period, as determined under rules prescribed by the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and applicable Treasury regulations, an annual limitation would be imposed with respect to the ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and federal tax credits. On November 25, 2008, HLTH repurchased 83,699,922 shares of its common stock in a tender offer. The tender offer resulted in a cumulative change of more than 50% of the ownership of HLTH’s capital, as determined under rules prescribed by the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and applicable Treasury regulations. As a result of this ownership change, there will be an annual limitation imposed on the ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and federal tax credits. Because substantially all of our net operating loss carryforwards are reserved for by a valuation allowance, we would not expect an annual limitation on the utilization of our net operating loss carryforwards to significantly reduce our net deferred tax asset, although the timing of our cash flows may be impacted to the extent any such annual limitation deferred the utilization of our net operating loss carryforwards to future tax years. We are included in HLTH’s consolidated group for federal income tax purposes and, as a result, may be liable for any shortfall in HLTH’s federal income tax payments We will be included in the HLTH consolidated group for federal income tax purposes as long as HLTH continues to own 80% of the total value of our capital stock. By virtue of its controlling ownership and our Tax Sharing Agreement with HLTH, HLTH effectively controls all our tax decisions. Moreover, notwithstanding the Tax Sharing Agreement, federal tax law provides that each member of a consolidated group is jointly and severally liable for the group’s entire federal income tax obligation. Thus, to the extent HLTH or other members of the group fail to make any federal income tax payments required of them by law, we would be liable for the shortfall. Similar principles generally apply for income tax purposes in some state, local and foreign jurisdictions. Other Risks Applicable to Our Company and to Ownership of Our Securities Negative conditions in the market for certain auction rate securities may result in WebMD incurring a loss on such investments As of December 31, 2008, WebMD had a total of approximately $164.8 million (face value) of investments in certain auction rate securities (ARS). Those ARS had a book value of $133.6 million. The types of ARS investments that WebMD owns are backed by student loans, 97% of which are guaranteed under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP), and all had credit ratings of AAA or Aaa when purchased. WebMD does not own any other type of ARS investments. Since February 2008, negative conditions in the regularly held auctions for these securities have prevented holders from being able to liquidate their holdings through that type of sale. In the event WebMD needs to or wants to sell its ARS investments, it may not be able to do so until a future auction on these types 40 Table of Contents of investments is successful or until a buyer is found outside the auction process. If potential buyers are unwilling to purchase the investments at their carrying amount, WebMD would incur a loss on any such sales. In addition, the credit ratings on some of the ARS investments in our portfolio have been downgraded, and there may be additional such rating downgrades in the future. If uncertainties in the credit and capital markets continue, these markets deteriorate further or ARS investments in our portfolio experience additional credit rating downgrades, there could be further fair value adjustments or other-than-temporary impairments in the carrying value of our ARS investments. Acquisitions, business combinations and other transactions may be difficult to complete and, if completed, may have negative consequences for our business and our security holders WebMD has been built, in part, through acquisitions. We intend to continue to seek to acquire or to engage in business combinations with companies engaged in complementary businesses. In addition, we may enter into joint ventures, strategic alliances or similar arrangements with third parties. These transactions may result in changes in the nature and scope of our operations and changes in our financial condition. Our success in completing these types of transactions will depend on, among other things, our ability to locate suitable candidates and negotiate mutually acceptable terms with them, and to obtain adequate financing. Significant competition for these opportunities exists, which may increase the cost of and decrease the opportunities for these types of transactions. Financing for these transactions may come from several sources, including: • cash and cash equivalents on hand and marketable securities; • proceeds from the incurrence of indebtedness; and • proceeds from the issuance of additional Class A Common Stock, of preferred stock, of convertible debt or of other securities. The issuance of additional equity or debt securities could: • cause substantial dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders at the time of the issuance; • cause substantial dilution of our earnings per share; • subject us to the risks associated with increased leverage, including a reduction in our ability to obtain financing or an increase in the cost of any financing we obtain; • subject us to restrictive covenants that could limit our flexibility in conducting future business activities; and • adversely affect the prevailing market price for our outstanding securities. We do not intend to seek security holder approval for any such acquisition or security issuance unless required by applicable law, regulation or the terms of then existing securities. Our business will suffer if we fail to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies or to assess the risks in particular transactions We have in the past acquired, and may in the future acquire, businesses, technologies, services, product lines and other assets. The successful integration of the acquired businesses and assets into our operations, on a cost-effective basis, can be critical to our future performance. The amount and timing of the expected benefits of any acquisition, including potential synergies between our company and the acquired business, are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those relating to: • our ability to maintain relationships with the customers of the acquired business; • our ability to retain or replace key personnel; • potential conflicts in sponsor or advertising relationships; • our ability to coordinate organizations that are geographically diverse and may have different business cultures; and • compliance with regulatory requirements. 41 Table of Contents We cannot guarantee that any acquired businesses will be successfully integrated with our operations in a timely or cost-effective manner, or at all. Failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses or to achieve anticipated operating synergies, revenue enhancements or cost savings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although our management attempts to evaluate the risks inherent in each transaction and to value acquisition candidates appropriately, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain all such risks or that acquired businesses and assets will perform as we expect or enhance the value of our company as a whole. In addition, acquired companies or businesses may have larger than expected liabilities that are not covered by the indemnification, if any, that we are able to obtain from the sellers. We may not be able to raise additional funds when needed for our business or to exploit opportunities Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including the success of our service offerings, market developments, and repurchases of our common stock. We may need to raise additional funds to support expansion, develop new or enhanced applications and services, respond to competitive pressures, acquire complementary businesses or technologies or take advantage of unanticipated opportunities. If required, we may raise such additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing, strategic relationships or other arrangements. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all, or that such financing will not be dilutive to our stockholders. As widely reported, financial markets have been experiencing extreme disruption recently, including volatility in the prices of securities and severely diminished liquidity and availability of credit. Until this disruption in the financial markets is resolved, financing will be even more difficult to get on acceptable terms and we could be forced to cancel or delay investments or transactions that we would otherwise have made. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 