Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this report in evaluating our company and our common stock. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In that case, the trading price of our common stock and other securities also could be adversely affected. We make various statements in this section which constitute “forward-looking statements.” See “Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Business and Expansion Strategy Our diversification strategy depends on our ability to find accretive acquisitions and attract management. The success of our acquisition and diversification strategy will depend on our ability to identify suitable companies to acquire in attractive industries, to complete those acquisitions on terms that are acceptable to us and in the timeframes and within the budgets we expect, and to thereafter improve the results of operations of the acquired companies and successfully integrate their operations on an accretive basis. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in any or all of these steps. We may be unable to continue scale our operations, make acquisitions or continue as a going concern if we do not successfully raise additional capital. If we are unable to successfully raise the capital we need we may need to reduce the scope of our businesses to fully satisfy our future short-term liquidity requirements. If we cannot raise additional capital or reduce the scope of our business, we may be otherwise unable to achieve our goals or continue our operations. We have incurred losses from operations in our prior two fiscal years and have a lack of liquidity for expansion. Our business in China depends on the macroeconomic growth of China, which currently appears to signal a slowdown. We believe that a slowdown in China may adversely affect iron ore prices. If we are unable to sell iron ore at a reasonable profit, we will shut down the operations and cut our costs. This will in turn reduce our revenue in the short term. We may, in order to remain in the business, divert some of our resources to lower margin trading. While we believe that we will be able to raise the capital we need to continue our operations, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in these efforts or will be able to raise enough capital for planned expansion. We have a history of operating losses and there can be no assurance that we can again achieve or maintain profitability. Our short-term focus is to become profitable. However there can be no guarantee that our efforts will be successful. Even if we again achieve profitability, given our dependence on global GDP growth and macroeconomic factors, we may not be able to sustain profitability and our failure to do so would adversely affect our businesses, including our ability to raise additional funds. We expect to acquire companies and we are subject to evolving and often expensive corporate governance regulations and requirements. Our failure to adequately adhere to these requirements, and comply with them with regard to acquired companies, some of which may be non-reporting entities, or the failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures could seriously harm our business and affect our status as a reporting company listed on a national securities exchange. As a public reporting company whose shares are listed for trading on the NYSE MKT, we are subject to various regulations. Compliance with these evolving regulations is costly and requires a significant diversion of management time and attention, particularly with regard to our disclosure on controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting. Our internal controls and procedures may not be able to prevent errors or fraud in the future. However, we cannot guarantee that we can establish internal controls over financial reporting immediately on companies that we acquire. Thus, faulty judgments, simple errors or mistakes, or the failure of our personnel to enforce controls over acquired companies or to adhere to established controls and procedures, may make it difficult for us to ensure that the objectives of our control systems are met. A failure of our controls and procedures to detect other than inconsequential errors or fraud could seriously harm our ability to continue as a reporting company listed on a national securities exchange. We have a limited senior management team size that may hamper our ability to effectively manage a publicly traded company and manage acquisitions and that may harm our business. Since we operate in several foreign countries, we use consultants, including lawyers and accountants, to help us comply with regulatory requirements on a timely basis. As we expand, we expect to increase the size of our senior management. However, we cannot guarantee that in the interim period our senior management can adequately manage the requirements of a public company and the integration of acquisitions, and any failure to do so could lead to the imposition of fines, penalties, harm our business, status as a reporting company and our listing on the NYSE MKT. 9 Table of Contents Our proposed business expansion is dependent on laws pertaining to various industries including the legal marijuana industry. We expect to acquire companies and hire management in the niche areas that we have identified. These include, among others, technology, logistics and specialty pharmacy with a focus on capitalizing on specific niches within these areas such as solar energy, medical marijuana and clean tech. Entry into any of these areas, including the solar energy market, requires special knowledge of the industry and products. In the event that we are perceived to be entering the legal cannabis sector, even indirectly or remotely, we could be subject to increased scrutiny by regulators because, among other things, marijuana is a schedule-I controlled substance and is illegal under federal law. Our failure to adequately manage the risk associated with these businesses and adequately manage the requirements of the regulators can adversely affect our business, our status as a reporting company and our listing on the NYSE MKT. Further, any adverse pronouncements from regulators about businesses related to the legal cannabis sector could adversely affect our stock price if we are perceived to be in a company in that sector. We are subject to numerous risks and hazards associated with the mining industry. Our beneficiation operations are subject to a number of risks and hazards including: · industrial accidents; · unusual or unexpected geologic formations; · explosive rock failures; and · flooding and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions. Such risks could result in a variety of issues that could affect our operations, such as damage to or destruction of properties or beneficiation facilities, environmental damage, delays in our beneficiation operations, personal injury or death, monetary losses and possible legal liability. In order to mitigate these risks, we are consulting with attorneys about the possibility of creating several subsidiaries and structurally isolating each plant so that liability can be limited. No assurance can be given that we will be able to avoid any or all of the hazards discussed above and any such occurrence may substantially affect our business and financial operations. Our operations are highly susceptible to hazardous weather conditions and seasonal weather conditions. India, specifically the east and west coasts where our supply chains are located, northern Mongolia, and northeastern China where Ironman’s processing chain is located, experience severe weather conditions. Severe weather conditions could cause our supply chain and processing chain to temporarily curtail or stop operations materially affecting our quarterly results. During periods of curtailed activity due to adverse weather conditions, our operations in both countries may continue to incur operating expenses, reducing profitability. Certain weather conditions may affect iron ore beneficiation and trading operations. The Ironman beneficiation plant is located in a region with a typical subtropical climate characterized mainly by high precipitation and high evaporation and humid conditions. The rainy season occurs from May to August of each year, which may make the plant inaccessible or unusable during such rainy season due to flooding caused by insufficient drainage necessary to release the excess water that has accumulated. During the last rainy season there was a particularly rainy period marked by much flooding in China and a halt in business operations for several months. In northern Mongolia, temperatures can dip to as low as -30 degrees Celsius in the winter, making certain operations difficult. As such, iron ore beneficiation and trading operations may be interrupted due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions experienced during such rainy season. We may not be able to obtain necessary raw materials at competitive price and this may negatively affect our profits. On the supply side, including procuring sufficient raw materials, we may have difficulties procuring low-grade iron ore at specific sizes at competitive prices. In the event we are unable to secure steady suppliers, it could negatively affect our profitability. Our processing plant in China requires water for wet separation. While there is currently and for the foreseeable future an adequate supply of water, any discrepancy with the supply of water could lead to curtailing operations, which could affect our profitability. Likewise, construction contracts are primarily dependent on adequate and timely supply of raw materials such as cement, steel and aggregates at competitive prices. As the demand from competing larger and well-established material supply firms increases for procuring raw materials, we could face a disproportionate increase in the price of raw materials that may negatively impact our profitability. The cost of logistics and shipping between India or Mongolia and China may reduce our income. Our process involves moving iron ore from mine heads to crushers and then to the port for shipping. We rely on third parties to provide a number of important services in connection with our business, and any disruption in these services could materially affect our business. For example, we depend on trucking companies to move the ore. A surge in demand for iron ore and, in general, other commodities, could increase the cost of domestic logistic affecting our profitability. Additionally, we depend on shipping agencies to move iron ore from India to China and an increase in the price of shipping could adversely affect our profitability. We are considering using both trucks and trains to move iron ore from Mongolia to China, which would be subject to the same concerns. 10 Table of Contents Assessment of penalties for time overruns and lack of quality may adversely affect our economic performance. Our TBL subsidiary executes construction contracts primarily in the roads and infrastructure development sectors. TBL typically enters into high value contracts for these activities, which impose penalties if the contracts are not executed in a timely manner. If TBL is unable to meet the performance criteria prescribed by the contracts, then levied penalties may adversely affect our financial performance. Further, we may pay demurrage for some of our iron ore delivery contracts, if iron ore is not loaded onto ships in the time prescribed by delivery contracts. The payment of demurrage may adversely affect our financial performance. The iron ore shipped by us from India is shipped with a quality certificate from a leading company. However, the buyers in China also perform quality measurements, which could differ from the initial quality certificate. This may result in negative price adjustments affecting our profit margins. The rock aggregate business is less sensitive to time overruns and quality. Our business is dependent on continuing relationships with clients and strategic partners. Our business requires developing and maintaining strategic alliances with contractors that undertake turnkey contracts for infrastructure development projects and with government organizations. The business and our results could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain continuing relationships and pre-qualified status with key clients and strategic partners. Iron ore beneficiation is inherently dangerous and subject to conditions or events beyond our control, and any operating hazards could have a material adverse effect on our business. During the course of iron ore beneficiation activities, we use dangerous materials and there is no assurance that accidents will not occur. Should we be held liable for any such accident, we may be subject to penalties, and possible criminal proceedings may be brought against us by our employees, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. PRC Ironman’s operations could have material safety concerns, which may result in accidents and in turn negatively affect our revenue. The operations of our subsidiary PRC Ironman could have safety issues in its iron ore beneficiation plants including, in part, inadequate natural ventilation and likelihood of flooding. Accidents and employees’ injury arising from any safety issues may cause suspension or discontinuance of our beneficiation operations and negatively affect our revenue. Beneficiation activities are labor intensive and employ low levels of mechanization, which may result in inefficiency and impose greater safety and health hazards concern. Ironman has used rudimentary beneficiation methods and low levels of mechanization since the beginning of its operation. The labor-intensive and low-mechanization methods it uses in its beneficiation operations results in inefficient operations. The relatively large number of workers exposed to dust, noise, heat and vibration caused by its methods may increase the possibility of accidents and health hazards. We may suffer losses resulting from unexpected accidents. Like other similar companies, our operations may suffer from structural issues such as unusual or unexpected geologic formations or explosive rock failures that may result in accidents that cause property damage and possible personal injuries. We can give no assurance that industry-related accidents will not occur in the future. We do not maintain flood or other property insurance covering our properties, equipment, or inventories. Any losses and liabilities we incur due to unexpected property damage or personal injury could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Restrictive regulation on the export of iron ore may adversely affect our business. Restrictive regulation on the export of iron ore from India or the import of iron ore into China may adversely affect our profitability. India restricts the export of high quality iron ore to government agencies. China restricts the import of low quality iron ore to specific agents. In the event these regulations change and become even more restrictive, our profitability could be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Strikes, civil unrest, and tensions between India and China could have an impact on our business. The supply chain for iron ore is heavily dependent on transportation. A strike by truck drivers could adversely affect our business. Our processing plant in China is located in the province of Inner Mongolia and any civil unrest in that area, or other parts of China, could disrupt the logistics and processing chain adversely affecting our business. India and China have had their share of disputes in the past 60 years. India and China had ancient friendly ties going back to the silk route. However, beginning in the 1950s the relationship became strained largely over Tibet and issues over borders. In 1962, China attacked India along its border, coinciding with the Cuban missile crisis that preoccupied the super powers United States, Russia and the United Kingdom. The war ended with a complete withdrawal that coincided with the arrival of the U.S. air force. While there can be no guarantee that hostilities may again reappear between the two countries, much has changed since the 1962 war. Both India and China are now nuclear powers, underpinning the notion of Mutually Assured Destruction, and both are strategic partners with the United States. Both countries took part in the first ever BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and China) Summit in June 2011. Both countries have had 15 rounds of border talks; and, despite incidents in the past year involving excursions by Chinese troop into Indian territory, officials state that India and China relations are at a new historical starting point with the election of the new Indian government and the two are poised to increase mutual economic cooperation. In 2012-2013, India’s second largest trading partner was China following the United Arab Emirates and ahead of the United States. If hostilities between the two countries reappear, our business may be adversely affected. Currency fluctuations may reduce our profitability. Iron ore is traded in U.S. dollars. However, the supply side, including logistics in India, is settled in Indian rupees (INR). On the other hand, the expenses for processing the iron ore in China are all met in RMB. Therefore, three currencies are involved in a typical trade. Fluctuations of one currency relative to the others may adversely affect our profit margins. Environmental regulations could adversely affect Ironman’s business. The process of getting iron ore from the ground is typically environmentally unfriendly as is the process of beneficiation, which uses ground water. Stricter environmental controls in India or China on these processes could have an adverse impact on our business, by raising additional compliance expenses. Mineral exploration and processing, as well as Ironman’s current and future beneficiation operations are, and may continue to be, subject to stringent state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to environmental quality, production, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, protection and remediation of the environment, mine safety, toxic substances and other matters. Mineral processing is also subject to risks and liabilities associated with pollution of the environment and disposal of waste products. Compliance with these laws and regulations will impose substantial costs on Ironman and may subject it to significant potential liabilities. Further, any changes to these regulations may increase Ironman’s operating costs and may adversely affect its results of operations. Our business relies heavily on our management team and any unexpected loss of key officers may adversely affect our operations. The continued success of our business is largely dependent on the continued services of our key employees. The loss of the services of certain key personnel, without adequate replacement, could have an adverse effect on our performance. Our senior management, as well as the senior management of our subsidiaries, plays a significant role in developing and executing the overall business plan, maintaining client relationships, proprietary processes and technology. While no one is irreplaceable, the loss of the services of any would be disruptive to our business. A large portion of our iron ore revenue is derived from five major customers. Five of our iron ore customers accounted for 90% of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. We expect this concentration to continue, as the buyers of iron ore tend to be large traders or steel mills. Non-renewal or termination of any such relationship may have a material adverse effect on our revenue. No assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain such relationships. Additionally, no assurance can be given that our business will not remain largely dependent on a limited number of customers accounting for a substantial part of our revenue. Our quarterly revenue, operating results and profitability will vary. Factors that may contribute to the variability of quarterly revenue, operating results or profitability include: · Fluctuations in revenue due to seasonality such as during the monsoon season, the heavy rains slow down road building and during the summer months, the winds are not strong enough to power the wind turbines, which results in uneven revenue and operating results over the year; · Commencement, completion and shipment during any particular quarter; · Additions and departures of key personnel; and · Strategic decisions made by us and our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments and changes in business strategy. 12 Table of Contents We face intense competition in the iron ore business. Large companies in Brazil, Australia, India and other iron ore producing countries dominate the iron ore business. Most of these companies are miners and export directly to the large steel mills around the world. Our strategy of sourcing low-grade inexpensive iron ore from India or Mongolia and processing it in China allows us to supply steel producers at competitive prices, while maintaining margins. We depend on our expertise in sourcing low cost low-grade iron ore and to process the iron ore. If we are unable to offer competitive prices there could be a significant reduction in our revenue. We may not be able to compete successfully for mineral rights with companies having greater financial resources than we have. All mines have limited resources and, as such, we intend to acquire additional mining operations as part of our long-term strategy. As there is a limited supply of desirable mineral deposits in the PRC, we face strong competition for promising acquisition targets from other mining companies, some of which have greater financial resources than we have. We may be unable to compete with such other mining companies in making acquisitions that we deem to be complementary to our business, or to acquire such on terms that are acceptable to us. Our revenue and, therefore, our profitability, may be affected by metal price volatility. The majority of our revenue is derived from the sale of high-grade iron ore. Consequently, our revenue is directly related to the price of high-grade iron ore. We do not conduct any hedging of the price of iron ore, which exposes us to increased price volatility. Iron ore is one of the biggest dry bulk commodities traded and shipped. According to the U.S. Geological Survey, Mineral Commodity Summaries, January 2014 report, the estimated world total mine production of iron ore was 2,950 million metric tons of usable iron ore worth $395 billion and the world total resources of iron ore content was 81,000 million metric tons of usable ore. The price (estimated from reported value of iron ore at mines) was US$130 per metric ton. The growth of spot trading in this huge market presents an opportunity for banks, traders, producers and consumers to manage price risk and exposure. Trading since 2008, the iron ore swap has emerged as the leading instrument for iron ore hedging and risk management. Changes in the prices of high-grade iron ore and lead may adversely affect our operating results. It is difficult to predict whether high-grade iron ore prices will rise or fall in the future and a decline in prices could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. Restructuring of our holdings in China may result in a charge We are in the process of evaluating and restructuring our holdings in Inner Mongolia. While we have not made a decision, if we restructure our Chinese holdings this may result in a small charge in our statement of operations in future periods. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Future sales of common stock by us could cause our stock price to decline and dilute your ownership in our company. There are currently outstanding warrants to purchase 1,271,373 shares of our common stock and stock options to purchase 269,345 shares of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock by us in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. If we raise funds by issuing additional securities in the future or the outstanding warrants or stock options to purchase our common stock are exercised, the newly-issued shares will also dilute your percentage ownership in our company. The market price for our common stock may be volatile. The trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Fluctuations in our stock price may not be correlated in a predictable way to our performance or operating results. Our stock price may fluctuate as a result of a number of events and factors such as those described elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section, events described in this report, and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market, in general, has historically experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Our common stock has also been volatile, with our 52-week price range being at a low of $0.61 and a high of $2.34 per share. These fluctuations are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause declines in the market price of our common stock. 13 Table of Contents Our publicly-filed reports are subject to review by the SEC, and any significant changes or amendments required as a result of any such review may result in material liability to us and may have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. The reports of publicly-traded companies are subject to review by the SEC from time to time for the purpose of assisting companies in complying with applicable disclosure requirements, and the SEC is required to undertake a comprehensive review of a company’s reports at least once every three years under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. SEC reviews may be initiated at any time. We could be required to modify, amend or reformulate information contained in prior filings as a result of an SEC review, as well as state in filings that we have inadequate control or expertise over financial reporting. Any modification, amendment or reformulation of information contained in such reports could be significant and result in material liability to us and have a material and adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not plan to pay any cash dividends in the near future. Our current policy is to retain all funds and earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. In addition, the terms of our debt agreement prohibits the payment of cash dividends or other distributions on any of our capital stock except dividends payable in additional shares of capital stock. Maryland anti-takeover provisions and certain anti-takeover effects of our Charter and Bylaws may inhibit a takeover at a premium price that may be beneficial to our stockholders. Business Combinations. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law, some business combinations, including a merger, consolidation, share exchange or, in some circumstances, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities, are prohibited for a period of time and require an extraordinary vote. These transactions include those between a Maryland corporation and the following persons (a “Specified Person”): · an interested stockholder, which is defined as any person (other than a subsidiary) who beneficially owns 10% or more of the corporation’s voting stock, or who is an affiliate or an associate of the corporation who, at any time within a two-year period prior to the transaction, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation’s voting stock; or · an affiliate of an interested stockholder. A person is not an interested stockholder if the board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which the person otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. The board of directors of a Maryland corporation also may exempt a person from these business combination restrictions prior to the time the person becomes a Specified Person and may provide that its exemption be subject to compliance with any terms and conditions determined by the board of directors. Transactions between a corporation and a Specified Person are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which such stockholder becomes a Specified Person. After five years, any business combination must be recommended by the board of directors of the corporation and approved by at least 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation and two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of shares other than voting stock held by the Specified Person with whom the business combination is to be effected, unless the corporation’s stockholders receive a minimum price as defined by Maryland law and other conditions under Maryland law are satisfied. A Maryland corporation may elect not to be governed by these provisions by having its board of directors exempt various Specified Persons, by including a provision in its charter expressly electing not to be governed by the applicable provision of Maryland law or by amending its existing charter with the approval of at least 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation and two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of shares other than those held by any Specified Person. Our Charter does not include any provision opting out of these business combination provisions. Control Share Acquisitions. The Maryland General Corporation Law also prevents, subject to exceptions, an acquirer who acquires sufficient shares to exercise specified percentages of voting power of a corporation from having any voting rights except to the extent approved by two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter not including shares of stock owned by the acquiring person, any directors who are employees of the corporation and any officers of the corporation. These provisions are referred to as the control share acquisition statute. The control share acquisition statute does not apply to shares acquired in a merger, consolidation or share exchange if the corporation is a party to the transaction, or to acquisitions approved or exempted prior to the acquisition by a provision contained in the corporation’s charter or bylaws. Our Bylaws include a provision exempting us from the restrictions of the control share acquisition statute, but this provision could be amended or rescinded either before or after a person acquired control shares. As a result, the control share acquisition statute could discourage offers to acquire our common stock and could increase the difficulty of completing an offer. 14 Table of Contents Board of Directors. The Maryland General Corporation Law provides that a Maryland corporation which is subject to the Exchange Act and has at least three outside directors (who are not affiliated with an acquirer of the company) under certain circumstances may elect by resolution of the board of directors or by amendment of its charter or bylaws to be subject to statutory corporate governance provisions that may be inconsistent with the corporation’s charter and bylaws. Under these provisions, a board of directors may divide itself into three separate classes without the vote of stockholders such that only one-third of the directors are elected each year. A board of directors classified in this manner cannot be altered by amendment to the charter of the corporation. Further, the board of directors may, by electing to be covered by the applicable statutory provisions and notwithstanding the corporation’s charter or bylaws: · provide that a special meeting of stockholders will be called only at the request of stockholders entitled to cast at least a majority of the votes entitled to be cast at the meeting, · reserve for itself the right to fix the number of directors, · provide that a director may be removed only by the vote of at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of directors, and · retain for itself sole authority to fill vacancies created by an increase in the size of the board or the death, removal or resignation of a director. In addition, a director elected to fill a vacancy under these provisions serves for the balance of the unexpired term instead of until the next annual meeting of stockholders. A board of directors may implement all or any of these provisions without amending the charter or bylaws and without stockholder approval. Although a corporation may be prohibited by its charter or by resolution of its board of directors from electing any of the provisions of the statute, we have not adopted such a prohibition. We have adopted a staggered board of directors with three separate classes in our charter and given the board the right to fix the number of directors, but we have not prohibited the amendment of these provisions. The adoption of the staggered board may discourage offers to acquire our common stock and may increase the difficulty of completing an offer to acquire our stock. If our Board chose to implement the statutory provisions, it could further discourage offers to acquire our common stock and could further increase the difficulty of completing an offer to acquire our common stock. Effect of Certain Provisions of our Charter and Bylaws. In addition to the Charter and Bylaws provisions discussed above, certain other provisions of our Bylaws may have the effect of impeding the acquisition of control of our company by means of a tender offer, proxy fight, open market purchases or otherwise in a transaction not approved by our Board of Directors. These provisions of Bylaws are intended to reduce our vulnerability to an unsolicited proposal for the restructuring or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or an unsolicited takeover attempt, which our Board believes is otherwise unfair to our stockholders. These provisions, however, also could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of our company. Our Bylaws provide that with respect to annual meetings of stockholders, (i) nominations of individuals for election to our Board of Directors and (ii) the proposal of business to be considered by stockholders may be made only pursuant to our notice of the meeting, by or at the direction of our Board of Directors, or by a stockholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice procedures set forth in our Bylaws. Special meetings of stockholders may be called only by the chief executive officer, the board of directors or the secretary of our company (upon the written request of the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote). At a special meeting of stockholders, the only business that may be conducted is the business specified in our notice of meeting. With respect to nominations of persons for election to our Board of Directors, nominations may be made at a special meeting of stockholders only pursuant to our notice of meeting, by or at the direction of our Board of Directors, or if our Board of Directors has determined that directors will be elected at the special meeting, by a stockholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice procedures set forth in our Bylaws. These procedures may limit the ability of stockholders to bring business before a stockholders meeting, including the nomination of directors and the consideration of any transaction that could result in a change in control and that may result in a premium to our stockholders. 15 Table of Contents Risk Related to Our Securities We do not currently have accounting personnel with sufficient experience in maintaining books and records and preparing financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP and SEC rules and regulations. Our accounting personnel are located in Hong Kong, India, China and the U.S, primarily near our businesses, and they all do not have sufficient knowledge of and professional experience in maintaining books and records and preparing financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP and SEC rules and regulations. We have addressed this by hiring consultants with sufficient background in SEC reporting and filing requirements; formalizing accounting and reporting controls and procedures at all our operating units; and providing on-going training to our accounting staff. In addition we have engaged a legal firm with extensive SEC reporting expertise and an individual with extensive SEC and GAAP reporting experience to review our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. However, despite these efforts, our ability to prepare financial statements and maintain our books and records in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and SEC rules and regulations, especially with new acquisitions, may be impacted, which may constitute a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting. For more information please see Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. We incur costs as a result of operating as a public company. Our management is required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. Because we report in U.S. GAAP, we may experience delays in closing our books and records, and delays in the preparation of financial statements and related disclosures. As part of a public company with substantial operations in foreign countries, we are experiencing an increase in legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the new rules implemented by the SEC and the NYSE MKT have imposed various requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. We have completed the testing of internal controls in all our subsidiaries in India and China. We expect to take actions that include the curtailment of activity whose reporting and compliance costs exceed any present or future shareholder benefit. We also anticipate installing improved systems and processes. However, we cannot be certain as to the timing or completion of the remediation actions, or their full impact on our operations. Furthermore, it is difficult to hire personnel in India and China who have sufficient experience with U.S. GAAP and SEC rules and regulations. To compensate, we have hired several competent consultants to help review our internal reporting and disclosures, and to train our Indian and Chinese staff in SEC reporting and U.S. GAAP. We do not foresee a problem other than the time and increased cost required to hire qualified individuals, complete the training and to implement the improved processes. However, until then we may experience delays in the preparations of financial statements and related disclosures. 16 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND IMPORTANT FACTORS The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. This report and the documents incorporated in this report by reference contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Additionally, we or our representatives may, from time to time, make other written or verbal forward-looking statements. In this report and the documents incorporated by reference, we discuss plans, expectations and objectives regarding our business, financial condition and results of operations. Without limiting the foregoing, statements that are in the future tense, and all statements accompanied by terms such as “believe,” “project,” “expect,” “trend,” “estimate,” “forecast,” “assume,” “intend,” “plan,” “target,” “anticipate,” “outlook,” “preliminary,” “will likely result,” “will continue” and variations of them and similar terms are intended to be “forward-looking statements” as defined by federal securities laws. We caution you not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which are based upon assumptions, expectations, plans and projections. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those identified in the “Risk Factors” included in this report and in the documents incorporated by reference, that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date when they are made. Except as required by federal securities law, we do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances, changes in expectations or the occurrence of unanticipated events after the date of those statements. We intend that all forward-looking statements made will be subject to safe harbor protection of the federal securities laws pursuant to Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Forward-looking statements are based upon, among other things, our assumptions with respect to: · competition in the road building sector, · legislation by the government of India, · general economic conditions and the Indian growth rates, · our ability to win licenses, contracts and execute, · current and future economic and political conditions, · overall industry and market performance, · the impact of accounting pronouncements, · management’s goals and plans for future operations, and · other assumptions described in this report underlying or relating to any forward-looking statements. You should consider the limitations on, and risks associated with, forward-looking statements and not unduly rely on the accuracy of predictions contained in such forward-looking statements. As noted above, these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date when they are made. Moreover, in the future, we may make forward-looking statements through our senior management that involve the risk factors and other matters described in this report, as well as other risk factors subsequently identified, including, among others, those identified in our filings with the SEC in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 