ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Risk associated with our business We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a development stage company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have an operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire an operating business. We will not generate any revenues (other than interest income on the proceeds of our initial public offering) until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. 10 Table of Contents If we are forced to liquidate before a business combination, our public shareholders will receive less than $8.00 per share upon distribution of the trust account and our redeemable warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation will be less than $8.00 because of the expenses of our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking a business combination. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding redeemable warrants and, accordingly, the redeemable warrants will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a business combination. Under Cayman Islands law, the requirements and restrictions relating to our initial public offering contained in our amended and restated articles of association may be amended, which could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our shareholders by such requirements and restrictions. Our amended and restated articles of association set forth certain requirements and restrictions relating to our initial public offering that applies to us until the consummation of a business combination. Specifically, our amended and restated articles of association provides among other things, that: • prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, we shall submit such business combination to our shareholders for approval; • we may consummate our initial business combination if: (i) approved by a majority of the ordinary shares voted by the public shareholders, and (ii) public shareholders owning less than 20% of the ordinary shares purchased by the public shareholders in our initial public offering exercise their redemption rights; • if our initial business combination is approved and consummated, public shareholders who voted against the business combination and exercised their redemption rights will receive their pro rata share of the trust account; • if a business combination is not consummated or a letter of intent, an agreement in principle or a definitive agreement is not signed within the required time periods, then we will be dissolved and distribute to all of our public shareholders their pro rata share of the trust account; and • we may not consummate any other merger, capital stock exchange, stock purchase, asset acquisition or similar transaction other than a business combination that meets certain requirements, including the requirement that our initial business combination be with one or more operating businesses whose fair market value, either individually or collectively, is equal to at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such business combination. Our amended and restated articles of association prohibit the amendment of the above-described provisions. However, the validity of provisions prohibiting amendment of the amended and restated articles of association under Cayman Islands law has not been settled. A court could conclude that the prohibition on amendment violated the shareholders’ implicit rights to amend the amended and restated articles of association. In that case, the above-described provisions would be amendable and any such amendment could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our shareholders. However, we view the foregoing provisions as obligations to our shareholders and we will not take any actions to waive or amend any of these provisions. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies under the United States securities laws. Since the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be used to complete a business combination with a target business that has not been identified, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, since our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange, a national securities exchange, and we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 upon the closing of our initial public offering and have made the requisite filings with the SEC, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies, such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Because we are not subject to Rule 419, we have a longer period of time to complete a business combination in certain circumstances. 11 Table of Contents If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by shareholders could be less than $7.60 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities we engage execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public shareholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements. There is also no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over the claims of our public shareholders and the per-share liquidation price could be less than $7.60, plus interest, not previously released to us due to claims of such creditors. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate, our officers and directors, severally, in accordance with their respective beneficial ownership interests in us, will be personally liable under certain circumstances to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of various vendors that are owed money by us for services rendered or products sold to us. However, we cannot assure you that they will be able to satisfy those obligations. Since we may consummate a business combination with a company in any industry we choose and are not limited to any particular industry or type of business, you have no current basis to ascertain the merits or risks of the industry or target business in which we may ultimately operate. We may consummate a business combination with a company in any industry we choose and are not limited to any particular industry or type of business. Accordingly, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular industry in which we may ultimately operate or the target business which we may ultimately acquire. To the extent we complete a business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. If we complete a business combination with an entity in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. For example, if we complete a business combination with a business in a regulated industry, we may be subject to various regulatory risks associated with that industry. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry or target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our units will not ultimately prove to be less favorable than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate a business combination, it may be more difficult for us to do so. Since August 2003 and as of January 1, 2007, based upon publicly available information, approximately 78 similarly structured blank check companies have completed initial public offerings. Of these companies, as of January 1, 2007, 16 companies have consummated a business combination, 23 companies have announced they have entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination, but have not consummated such business combination, and four companies have been liquidated. Accordingly, as of January 1, 2007 there were approximately 35 blank check companies with more than $2.9 billion in trust that are seeking to carry out a business plan similar to our business plan. While some of those companies have specific industries in which they must complete a business combination, a number of them may consummate a business combination in any industry they choose. We may therefore be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business plan similar to ours, which, as a result, will increase demand for privately-held companies to combine with companies structured similarly to ours. Further, the fact that as of January 1, 2007 35 of such companies have not announced that they have entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination may be an indication that there are only a limited number of attractive target businesses available to such entities or that many privately-held target businesses may not be inclined to enter into business combinations with publicly-held blank check companies like ours. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete for an attractive business combination. Additionally, because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time periods. If we are unable to find a suitable target business within such time periods, we will be forced to liquidate. 12 Table of Contents We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our shareholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 50,000,000 ordinary shares, par value $0.0005 per share, and 5,000,000 preferred shares, par value $0.0005 per share. As of February 1, 2007, we have 17,500,000 ordinary shares outstanding and no preferred shares outstanding. We may issue a substantial number of additional ordinary shares or preferred shares, or a combination or ordinary shares and preferred shares, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional ordinary shares or preferred shares: • may significantly reduce the equity interest of our then existing shareholders; • will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our ordinary shares are issued and most likely result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our securities. Similarly, if we issued debt securities, it could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating cash flow after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contained covenants that required the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant were breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security was payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contained covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security was outstanding. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination and to be successful afterwards will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following a business combination and whom we would have only a limited ability to evaluate. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. We can give you no assurance that our key personnel or our directors will remain with the Company until we complete a business combination. In addition, the future role of our key personnel and our directors following a business combination cannot presently be fully ascertained. It is likely that we may employ other personnel following the business combination. While we intend to closely scrutinize any additional individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company as well as United States securities laws which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such laws. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. Our officers, directors and advisor may allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers, directors and advisor are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. All of our executive officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. If our executive officers’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. 13 Table of Contents Our officers, directors and advisor may be involved or in the future may become affiliated with other businesses, including other blank check companies, which could cause a conflict of interest as to which business they may present a viable acquisition opportunity. Our officers, directors and advisor may be involved or in the future may become affiliated with entities, including other blank check companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Humphrey P. Polanen, a director, is the chairman of the board of directors of Sand Hill IT Security Acquisition Corp., a blank check company organized on April 15, 2004 for the purpose of acquiring an operating business in the IT security industry, which acquired St. Bernard Software, Inc., a privately-held IT security company, on July 27, 2006. Our officers, directors and advisor may become aware of business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities with which they may be affiliated. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. All of our officers, directors and advisor own ordinary shares which will not participate in liquidation distributions and therefore they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. All of our officers, directors and advisor own ordinary shares in our company, but have waived their right to receive distributions upon our liquidation upon our failure to complete a business combination. Additionally, our officers, directors and advisor have collectively agreed with the representatives of the underwriters of our initial public offering that they and certain of their affiliates or designees will purchase redeemable warrants in the open market following our initial public offering. The ordinary shares and redeemable warrants currently owned by our officers, directors and advisor and their affiliates will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our officers, directors and advisor may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination timely. Consequently, their discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our shareholders’ best interest. Our officers’, directors’ and advisor’s interests in obtaining reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them may lead to a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination and in the public shareholders’ best interest. None of our officers and directors, and advisor will receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the available proceeds not deposited in the trust account unless a business combination is consummated. The amount of available proceeds is based on management estimates of the funds needed for operations and to consummate a business combination, and those estimates may prove to be inaccurate. The financial interest of our officers, directors and advisor could influence their motivation in selecting a target business as certain business combinations may involve the repayment of expenses while others may not. For instance, our officers and directors may, as part of any such combination, negotiate the repayment of some or all of their out-of-pocket expenses in excess of the amount in the trust account, which if not agreed to by the target business’ owners, could cause our officers, directors and advisor to view such potential business combination unfavorably, thereby resulting in a conflict of interest. As a result, our officers, directors and advisor may have a potential conflict of interest when determining whether or not a particular business combination is in the shareholders’ best interest. If our ordinary shares become subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our ordinary shares have a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our ordinary shares may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: • make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; 14 Table of Contents • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. If our ordinary shares become subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. It is possible that we will only be able to complete one business combination with the proceeds of our initial public offering, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business. Our management has virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective target business, except that our initial business combination must be a transaction in which the fair market value of the target business or businesses acquired simultaneously at the time of the business combination is at least 80% of our net assets at the time of the business combination. While we may be able to purchase more than one target business using our equity securities as consideration for the acquisition or raising additional funds through the sale of our securities or through loan arrangements, we have no agreements or arrangements for such additional funding. We therefore believe that it is most likely that we will have the ability to effect only a single business combination. In the event we acquire a single target business, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities that may have the resources to complete several business combinations. We are dependent upon interest earned on the trust account to fund our search for a target company and consummation of a business combination. Of the net proceeds from our initial public offering, only $714,414 was available to us initially outside the trust account to fund our working capital requirements. We are dependent upon sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with the additional working capital we need to search for a target company and consummate a business combination. While we are entitled to half of the interest earned on the trust account each calendar quarter, if interest rates were to decline substantially, we may not have sufficient funds available to complete a business combination. In such event, we would need to borrow funds from our insiders or others or be forced to liquidate. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We may encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources are relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire with the net proceeds of our initial public offering, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses are limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Further, the obligation we have to seek shareholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction, and our obligation to redeem into cash the 15 Table of Contents ordinary shares held by public shareholders in certain instances may reduce the resources available for a business combination. Additionally, our outstanding redeemable warrants and options, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of our initial public offering will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or because we become obligated to redeem into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting shareholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or shareholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. Our officers, directors and advisor control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring shareholder vote. Our board of directors is divided into three classes, with only one class of directors being elected in each year and for a term of three years. There may not be an annual meeting of shareholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office at least until the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our officers, directors and advisor, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, they will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of a business combination. In addition, our officers, directors and advisor and their affiliates and relatives are not prohibited from purchasing additional securities of our company in the open market. If they do, we cannot assure you that they will not have considerable influence upon the vote in connection with a business combination. Our outstanding redeemable warrants and options may have an adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. We currently have outstanding redeemable warrants to purchase 14,375,000 ordinary shares. We have also issued an option to purchase 1,000,000 units to the representatives of the underwriters of our initial public offering which, if exercised in full, will result in the issuance of an additional 1,000,000 ordinary shares and 1,000,000 warrants, and an option to purchase 125,000 shares to an independent consultant pursuant to a consulting agreement and subject to a vesting schedule. To the extent we issue ordinary shares to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these redeemable warrants and options could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our redeemable warrants and options may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the ordinary shares underlying the redeemable warrants and options could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent these redeemable warrants and options are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. 16 Table of Contents If our officers, directors and advisor exercise their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price our ordinary shares and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Pursuant to a registration rights agreement, our officers, directors and advisor are entitled to demand that we register the resale of any ordinary shares held by them prior to our initial public offering at any time after the date on which these shares are released from escrow, which, except in limited circumstances, will not be before (i) six months after the consummation of a business combination with respect to 20% of the ordinary shares held in the escrow account, and (ii) April 24, 2009 with respect to the remaining 80% of the ordinary shares held in the escrow account. If they exercise their registration rights with respect to all of these ordinary shares, then there will be an additional 3,125,000 ordinary shares eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of this additional number of ordinary shares eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business, as the shareholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or request a higher price for their securities as a result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our securities. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange, a national securities exchange. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange in the future prior to a business combination. Additionally, in connection with our business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • a determination that our ordinary shares constitute a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our ordinary shares to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our ordinary shares; • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, our activities may be restricted, including: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; and • restrictions on the issuance of securities, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. 17 Table of Contents We do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may only be invested by the trust agent in “government securities” with specific maturity dates. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we were deemed to be subject to the act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expenses that we have not budgeted. Because we may be deemed to have no “independent” directors, actions taken and expenses incurred by our officers and directors on our behalf will generally not be subject to “independent” review. Each of our directors owns our ordinary shares and, although no compensation have been or will be paid to them for services rendered prior to or in connection with a business combination, they may receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with activities on our behalf such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business combinations and for out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with our initial public offering. There is no limit on the amount of these out-of-pocket expenses and there will be no review of the reasonableness of the expenses by anyone other than our board of directors, which includes persons who may seek reimbursement, or a court of competent jurisdiction if such reimbursement is challenged. Because we may be deemed to have no “independent” directors, we will not have the benefit of independent directors examining the propriety of expenses incurred on our behalf and subject to reimbursement. Although we believe that all actions taken by our directors on our behalf will be in our best interests, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. If actions are taken, or expenses are incurred that are not in our best interests, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations and the price of our ordinary shares held by the public shareholders. Risks associated with our acquisition of a target business in the PRC After a business combination, substantially all of our assets could be located in China and substantially all of our revenue will be derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects will be subject, to a significant extent, to the economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC’s economic, political and social conditions, as well as government policies, could affect our business. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects. Since 1978, China has been one of the world’s fastest-growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, or GDP, growth. We cannot assure you, however, that such growth will be sustained in the future. Moreover, the recent slowdown in the economies of the European Union and certain Asian countries may adversely affect economic growth in China. If in the future China’s economy experiences a downturn or grows at a slower rate than expected, there may be less demand for spending in certain industries. A decrease in demand for spending in certain industries could materially and adversely affect our ability to find an attractive target business with which to consummate a business combination and if we make an acquisition, the ability of that target business to become profitable. Our ability to find an attractive target business with which to consummate a business combination is based on the assumption that the PRC economy will continue to grow. The PRC’s economic growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us, depending on the industry in which we engage in a business combination. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by PRC government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to a potential target business and a business combination. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the use of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over PRC economic growth 18 Table of Contents through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. We cannot assure you that China’s economic, political or legal systems will not develop in a way that becomes detrimental to our business, results of operations and prospects. If we acquire a target business through contractual arrangements with one or more operating businesses in China, such contracts may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership of such businesses and may be difficult to enforce. To comply with applicable PRC regulations, we may effect a business combination by paying consideration to the owners of the target business and then making contractual arrangements between our company, subsidiaries and/or affiliates, and PRC companies holding the licenses required to engage in the specific industry of the target business and its shareholders. In that case, the target business would be owned by PRC residents (most likely designated by us) rather than directly by our company. If we choose to effect this type of business combination, we would expect to negotiate agreements that are designed to give us the full economic benefits and control of direct ownership. However, these contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing us with the same economic benefits or control over a target business as direct ownership would. For example, if the target business or any other entity fails to perform its obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and expend substantial resources to enforce such arrangements, and rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, which we cannot assure you will be sufficient to off-set the cost of enforcement and may adversely affect the benefits we expect to receive from the acquisition. Moreover, we expect that the contractual arrangements upon which we would be relying would be governed by PRC law and would be the only basis of providing resolution of disputes which may arise through either arbitration or litigation in China. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. Uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exert the effective level of control or receive the full economic benefits of direct ownership over the target business. Deterioration of China’s political relations with the United States, Europe, or other Asian nations could make PRC businesses less attractive to Western investors. The relationship between the United States and China is subject to sudden fluctuation and periodic tension. Changes in political conditions in China and changes in the state of foreign relations are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations or cause potential target businesses or services to become less attractive. This could lead to a decline in our profitability. Any weakening of relations between the United States, Europe, or other Asian nations and China could have a material adverse effect on our operations even after the successful completion of a business combination. If the PRC imposes restrictions to reduce inflation, future economic growth in the PRC could be severely curtailed which could lead to a significant decrease in our profitability following a business combination. While the economy of the PRC has experienced rapid growth, this growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the supply of money and rising inflation. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. If similar restrictions are imposed, it may lead to a slowing of economic growth and decrease the interest in the services or products we may ultimately offer leading to a decline in our profitability. 19 Table of Contents Because PRC law will govern almost all of any target business’ material agreements, we may not be able to enforce our rights within the PRC or elsewhere, which could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. PRC law will govern almost all of our target business’ material agreements, some or many of which could be with PRC governmental agencies. We cannot assure you that the target business will be able to enforce any of its material agreements or that remedies will be available outside of the PRC. The PRC legal system is similar to a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. Although legislation in China over the past 25 years has significantly improved the protection afforded to various forms of foreign investment and contractual arrangements in China, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively new and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties, which could limit the legal protection available to us, and foreign investors, including you. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital and could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Because most of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States, it may be difficult for you to enforce your rights against them or enforce U.S. court judgments against them in the PRC. Three of our directors and all of our officers reside outside of the United States and, after the consummation of a business combination, substantially all of our assets could be located outside of the United States. It may therefore be difficult for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under United States federal securities laws. Moreover, we have been advised that the PRC does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and the PRC would permit effective enforcement of criminal penalties of the United States federal securities laws. Because any target business with which we attempt to complete a business combination will be required to provide our shareholders with financial statements prepared in accordance with or reconciled to United States generally accepted accounting principles, prospective target businesses may be limited. In accordance with requirements of United States federal securities laws, in order to seek shareholder approval of a business combination, a proposed target business will be required to have certain financial statements which are prepared in accordance with, or which are reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. To the extent that a proposed target business does not have financial statements which have been prepared with, or which can be reconciled to, U.S. GAAP, we will not be able to acquire that proposed target business. These financial statements may limit the pool of potential target businesses which we may acquire. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our cash flow effectively following a business combination. Following a business combination, we will be subject to China’s rules and regulations on currency conversion. In China, the SAFE regulates the conversion of the Renminbi into foreign currencies. Currently, foreign investment enterprises, or FIEs, are required to apply to the SAFE for “Foreign Exchange Registration Certificates for FIEs.” Following a business combination, the entity in which we invest in China will likely be a FIE as a result of our ownership structure. FIEs holding such registration certificates, which must be renewed annually, are allowed to open foreign currency accounts including a “current account” and a “capital account.” Currency translation within the scope of the “current account,” such as remittance of foreign currencies for payment of dividends, can be effected without requiring the approval of the SAFE. However, conversion of currency in the “capital account,” including capital items such as direct investments, loans, and securities, require approval of the SAFE. We cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not impose further restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi. Any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use our cash flow for the distribution of dividends to our shareholders or to fund operations we may have outside of China. If any dividend is declared in the future and paid in a foreign currency, you may be taxed on a larger amount in U.S. dollars than the U.S. dollar amount that you will ultimately receive. If you are a U.S. holder, you will be taxed on the U.S. dollar value of your dividends at the time you receive them, even if you actually receive a smaller amount of U.S. dollars when the payment is in fact converted into U.S. dollars. Specifically, if a dividend is declared and paid in a foreign currency, the amount of the dividend distribution that you must include in your income as a U.S. holder will be the U.S. dollar value of the payments made in the 20 Table of Contents foreign currency, determined at the spot rate of the foreign currency to the U.S. dollar on the date the dividend distribution is includible in your income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into U.S. dollars. Thus, if the value of the foreign currency decreases before you convert the currency into U.S. dollars, you will be taxed on a larger amount in U.S. dollars than the U.S. dollar amount that you will ultimately receive. Fluctuations in the value of the Renminbi relative to foreign currencies could affect our operating results. We will prepare our financial statements in United States dollars, but payroll and other costs of non-United States operations will be payable in foreign currencies, primarily the Renminbi. To the extent future revenue is denominated in non-United States currencies, we would be subject to increased risks relating to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations that could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The value of the Renminbi against the United States dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. As our operations will be primarily in China, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert United States dollars into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the United States dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into United States dollars for other business purposes and the United States dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the United States dollar equivalent of the Renminbi we convert would be reduced. As of July 21, 2005, the Renminbi is no longer pegged solely to the United States dollar. Instead the PRC government introduced a managed floating exchange rate system to allow the value of the Renminbi to rise or fall by as much as 0.3% each day, based on market supply and demand and by reference to a basket of currencies. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the Renminbi against the United States dollar or other currencies could adversely affect our ability to find an attractive target business with which to consummate a business combination and to operate our business after a business combination. Regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that may limit or adversely effect our ability to acquire PRC companies. Pursuant to the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-raising and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or Notice 75, issued by SAFE on October 21, 2005, which became effective as of November 1, 2005, PRC residents are required to register with SAFE in connection with offshore investment activities. In the event that a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. As a Cayman Islands company, and therefore a foreign entity, if we purchase the assets or equity interest of a PRC company owned by PRC residents, such PRC residents will be subject to the registration procedures described in the regulations. Moreover, PRC residents who are beneficial holders of our shares are required to register with SAFE in connection with their investment in us. As a result of the lack of implementing rules and other uncertainties concerning how the existing SAFE regulations will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot predict how they will affect our business operations following a business combination. For example, our ability to conduct foreign exchange activities following a business combination, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with the SAFE registration requirements by such PRC residents, over whom we have no control. In addition, we cannot assure you that such PRC residents will be able to complete the necessary registration procedures required by the SAFE regulations. Although we will require all our shareholders, following a business combination, who are PRC residents to comply with any SAFE registration requirements, we have no control over either our shareholders or the outcome of such registration procedures. These uncertainties may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and adversely affect our business and prospects following a business combination. 21 Table of Contents The PRC government recently adopted a new M&A regulation which establishes more complex procedures for acquisitions conducted by foreign investors which could make it more difficult for us to implement our acquisition strategy. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, namely, the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce and the SAFE, jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the New M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006. The New M&A Rule established additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex. For instance, the New M&A Rule requires MOFCOM’s approval for any acquisition by a foreign investor of a PRC domestic enterprise using any of its securities as part of the consideration. Accordingly, if we undertake a business combination with a PRC domestic enterprise using any of our securities as consideration, we will need to obtain MOFCOM’s approval for the business combination. In addition, approvals of other PRC regulatory agencies may also be required under the New M&A Rule depending on how our business combination is ultimately structured. As a result, complying with the New M&A Rule to complete a business combination could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from MOFCOM, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete a business combination in a timely manner or at all. After we consummate a business combination, our operating company in China will be subject to restrictions on dividend payments. After we consummate a business combination, we will rely on dividends and other distributions from our operating company to provide us with cash flow and to meet our other obligations. Current regulations in China would permit our operating company in China to pay dividends to us only out of its accumulated distributable profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, our operating company in China will be required to set aside at least 10% (up to an aggregate amount equal to half of its registered capital) of its accumulated profits each year. Such cash reserve may not be distributed as cash dividends. In addition, if our operating company in China incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. Additional risk related to our company You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. We are a company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, and substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. In addition, a majority of our directors and executive officers are nationals or residents of jurisdictions other than the United States and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon our directors or executive officers, or enforce judgments obtained in the United States courts against our directors or executive officers. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law (2004 Revision) of the Cayman Islands and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority, but are not binding on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less 22 Table of Contents developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and some states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and • to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will in certain circumstances recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. We may become a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. If we are determined to be a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes, U.S. holders could be subject to adverse United States federal income tax consequences. Specifically, if we are determined to be a PFIC for any taxable year, each U.S. holder may be subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations and may be subject to additional reporting requirements. The determination of whether we are a PFIC will be made on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our income and assets, including goodwill. The calculation of goodwill will be based, in part, on the market value of our ordinary shares from time to time, which may be volatile. In general, we will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (1) at least 75% of our gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value (determined on the basis of a quarterly average) of our assets is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. For purposes of these tests, cash, including working capital, and investments are considered assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. Because our primary asset in 2006 consisted of cash, which is considered a passive asset for purposes of the PFIC tests, it is possible that we may be deemed to be a PFIC for the taxable year ending in December 31, 2006. Alternatively, it is possible that we may qualify for an exception provided in Section 1298(b)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”) for certain start-up companies if we are not deemed to be a PFIC for taxable years 2007 or 2008. We cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC in 2006 or in any future year. We urge U.S. investors to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules and the advisability of making a mark-to-market election with respect to our ordinary shares for taxable year 2006 under Section 1296 of the Code in order to ameliorate certain of the consequences if it is determined that we are a PFIC for such taxable year. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 