Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the material risks described below, which refer to our business and operations as of December 31, 2006, together with the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K before making a decision to invest in our securities. If any of the events described herein occur, our business, financial conditions, and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR POTENTIAL BUSINESS With respect to the proposed acquisition of PharmAthene, we refer you to the preliminary proxy statement filed with the SEC (and final proxy statement once it has been approved) for a discussion of the material risks applicable to the business and operations of PharmAthene. WE ARE A NEWLY FORMED COMPANY WITH NO OPERATING HISTORY AND, ACCORDINGLY, YOU WILL NOT HAVE ANY BASIS ON WHICH TO EVALUATE OUR ABILITY TO ACHIEVE OUR BUSINESS OBJECTIVE. We are a recently formed company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have any operations or an operating history, you have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire one or more domestic or international assets or an operating business in the healthcare industry. Other than researching prospective business combinations and conducting initial due diligence, neither we nor any of our agents or affiliates has yet taken any measure, directly or indirectly, to enter into a business combination. We will not generate any revenues or income (other than interest income on the proceeds of our initial public offering) until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. 14 IF WE ARE FORCED TO LIQUIDATE BEFORE A BUSINESS COMBINATION, OUR PUBLIC STOCKHOLDERS WILL RECEIVE LESS THAN $8.00 PER INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING PRICE UPON DISTRIBUTION OF THE TRUST FUND AND OUR WARRANTS WILL EXPIRE WORTHLESS. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation will be less than $8.00 because of the expenses of our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking a business combination after our initial public offering. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants and, accordingly, the warrants will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a business combination. BECAUSE THERE ARE NUMEROUS COMPANIES WITH A BUSINESS PLAN SIMILAR TO OURS SEEKING TO EFFECTUATE A BUSINESS COMBINATION, IT MAY BE MORE DIFFICULT FOR US TO COMPLETE A BUSINESS COMBINATION. Based upon publicly available information as of the date of this filing, approximately 85 similarly structured blank check companies have completed initial public offerings since August 2003 and numerous others have filed registration statements. Of these companies, only 19 companies have consummated a business combination, while 24 other companies have announced they have entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination, but have not consummated such business combination. Accordingly, there are approximately 38 blank check companies with approximately $3.1 billion in trust that are seeking to carry out a business plan similar to our business plan. While some of those companies have specific industries that they must complete a business combination in, a number of them may consummate a business combination in any industry they choose. We may therefore be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business plan similar to ours which will, as a result, increase demand for privately-held companies to combine with companies structured similarly to ours. Further, the fact that only 19 such companies have completed a business combination and 24 such companies have entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination may be an indication that there are only a limited number of attractive target businesses available to such entities or that many privately-held target businesses may not be inclined to enter into business combinations with publicly held blank check companies like us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete for an attractive business combination. Additionally, because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time periods. If we are unable to find a suitable target business within such time periods, we will be forced to liquidate. IF THIRD PARTIES BRING CLAIMS AGAINST US, THE PROCEEDS HELD IN TRUST COULD BE REDUCED AND THE PER-SHARE LIQUIDATION PRICE RECEIVED BY STOCKHOLDERS WILL BE LESS THAN $7.23 PER SHARE. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities we engage execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements. Nor is there any guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and the initial public offering per-share liquidation price could be less than $7.23 per share held in the trust account, plus interest, due to claims of such creditors. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate, our chairman and executive officers will be personally liable under certain circumstances (for example, if a vendor does not waive any rights or claims to the trust account) to ensure that the proceeds in the trust fund are not reduced by the claims of various vendors or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or products sold to us, to the extent necessary to ensure that such claims do not reduce the amount in the trust fund. However, we cannot assure you that our executive officers will be able to satisfy those obligations. 15 WE MAY ISSUE SHARES OF OUR CAPITAL STOCK OR DEBT SECURITIES TO COMPLETE A BUSINESS COMBINATION, WHICH WOULD REDUCE THE EQUITY INTEREST OF OUR STOCKHOLDERS AND LIKELY CAUSE A CHANGE IN CONTROL OF OUR OWNERSHIP. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. As of the date hereof, there are 78,500,000 authorized but un-issued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and the underwriters warrants) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. We will issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock to complete our proposed business combination with PharmAthene. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: · may significantly reduce the equity interest of current investors in our securities; · will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and most likely also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Additionally, the healthcare industry is capital intensive, traditionally using substantial amounts of indebtedness to finance acquisitions, capital expenditures and working capital needs. If we finance the purchase of assets or operations through the issuance of debt securities, it could result in: · default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; · acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contained covenants that required the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant were breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; · our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security was payable on demand; and our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contained covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security was outstanding. 16 OUR ABILITY TO EFFECT A BUSINESS COMBINATION AND TO EXECUTE ANY POTENTIAL BUSINESS PLAN AFTERWARDS WILL BE TOTALLY DEPENDENT UPON THE EFFORTS OF OUR KEY PERSONNEL, SOME OF WHOM MAY JOIN US FOLLOWING A BUSINESS COMBINATION AND WHOM WE WOULD HAVE ONLY A LIMITED ABILITY TO EVALUATE. Our ability to effect a business combination will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The future role of our key personnel following a business combination, however, cannot presently be fully ascertained. Although we expect most of our management and other key personnel, particularly our chairman of the board, vice chairman and president to each remain associated with us following a business combination, we may employ other personnel following the business combination. While we intend to closely scrutinize any additional individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. Moreover, our current management will only be able to remain with the combined company after the consummation of a business combination if they are able to negotiate the same as part of any such combination. If we acquired a target business in an all-cash transaction, it would be more likely that current members of management would remain with us if they chose to do so. If a business combination were structured as a merger whereby the stockholders of the target company were to control the combined company following a business combination, it may be less likely that management would remain with the combined company unless it was negotiated as part of the transaction via the acquisition agreement, an employment agreement or other arrangement. In making the determination as to whether current management should remain with us following the business combination, management will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business' management and negotiate as part of the business combination that certain members of current management remain if it is believed that it is in the best interests of the combined company post-business combination. If management negotiates to be retained post-business combination as a condition to any potential business combination, such negotiations may result in a conflict of interest. OUR OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS MAY ALLOCATE THEIR TIME TO OTHER BUSINESSES THEREBY CAUSING CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN THEIR DETERMINATION AS TO HOW MUCH TIME TO DEVOTE TO OUR AFFAIRS. THIS COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR ABILITY TO CONSUMMATE A BUSINESS COMBINATION. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. Each of our officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. If our officers' other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. OUR OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS ARE CURRENTLY AFFILIATED WITH ENTITIES ENGAGED IN BUSINESS ACTIVITIES SIMILAR TO THOSE INTENDED TO BE CONDUCTED BY US AND ACCORDINGLY, MAY HAVE CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN DETERMINING WHICH ENTITY A PARTICULAR BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY SHOULD BE PRESENTED TO. Our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with other entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities with which they are or may be affiliated. Further, certain of our officers and directors are currently involved in other businesses that are similar to the business activities that we intend to conduct following a business combination. Due to these existing affiliations, they have prior fiduciary obligations to present potential business opportunities to those entities prior to presenting them to us which could cause additional conflicts of interest. Accordingly, they have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. 17 ALL OF OUR DIRECTORS OWN SHARES OF OUR SECURITIES WHICH WILL NOT PARTICIPATE IN LIQUIDATION DISTRIBUTIONS AND THEREFORE THEY MAY HAVE A CONFLICT OF INTEREST IN DETERMINING WHETHER A PARTICULAR TARGET BUSINESS IS APPROPRIATE FOR A BUSINESS COMBINATION. All of our directors own shares of common stock in our company which were issued prior to our initial public offering, but have waived their right to receive distributions with respect to those shares upon our liquidation if we are unable to complete a business combination. Additionally, our chairman, chief executive officer, president and one of our directors have purchased an aggregate of 366,900 warrants on the open market. Other than with respect to 12,000 warrants purchased by one of our directors, these warrants will not be sold until the consummation of a business combination. The shares and warrants owned by these directors will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of these directors may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination in a timely manner. Consequently, these directors' discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders' best interest. PERSONS WHO WERE STOCKHOLDERS PRIOR TO OUR INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING WILL NOT RECEIVE REIMBURSEMENT FOR ANY OUT-OF-POCKET EXPENSES INCURRED BY THEM TO THE EXTENT THAT SUCH EXPENSES EXCEED THE AMOUNT IN THE TRUST FUND UNLESS THE BUSINESS COMBINATION IS CONSUMMATED AND THEREFORE THEY MAY HAVE A CONFLICT OF INTEREST. Persons who were stockholders prior to our initial public offering will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount in the trust fund unless the business combination is consummated and there are sufficient funds available for reimbursement after such consummation. The financial interest of such persons could influence their motivation in selecting a target business and thus, there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the stockholders' best interest. IT IS PROBABLE THAT WE WILL ONLY BE ABLE TO COMPLETE ONE BUSINESS COMBINATION, WHICH WILL CAUSE US TO BE SOLELY DEPENDENT ON A SINGLE BUSINESS. The gross proceeds from our initial public offering, including the exercise of a portion of the overallotment option were approximately $75,200,000, of which $67,928,000 was placed in trust for use in consummating a business combination. Our initial business combination must be with a business with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such acquisition. Consequently, it is probable that we will have the ability to complete only a single business combination, although this may entail the simultaneous acquisitions of several assets or closely related operating businesses at the same time. Accordingly, the prospects for our ability to effect our business strategy may be: 18 · solely dependent upon the performance of a single business; or · dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Furthermore, since our business combination may entail the simultaneous acquisitions of several assets or operating businesses at the same time and may be with different sellers, we will need to convince such sellers to agree that the purchase of their assets or businesses is contingent upon the simultaneous closings of the other acquisitions. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL FINANCING, IF REQUIRED, TO COMPLETE A BUSINESS COMBINATION OR TO FUND THE OPERATIONS AND GROWTH OF THE TARGET BUSINESS, WHICH COULD COMPEL US TO RESTRUCTURE THE TRANSACTION OR ABANDON A PARTICULAR BUSINESS COMBINATION. Although we believe that the net proceeds of our initial public offering will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, in as much as we have not yet identified any prospective target business, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or because we become obligated to convert into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. PERSONS WHO WERE STOCKHOLDERS PRIOR TO OUR INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING, INCLUDING OUR OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS, CONTROL A SUBSTANTIAL INTEREST IN US AND THUS MAY INFLUENCE CERTAIN ACTIONS REQUIRING STOCKHOLDER VOTE. Upon consummation of our offering, persons who were stockholders prior to our initial public offering (including all of our officers and directors) collectively owned 19.3% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock, not including an aggregate of 366,900 warrants purchased on the open market by our chairman, chief executive officer, president and one of our directors, which are not currently exercisable. Other than with respect to 12,000 warrants purchased by one of our directors, these warrants cannot be sold until after consummation of a business combination. Our board of directors is divided into two classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of two years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office at least until the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our "staggered" board of directors, initially only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and persons who were stockholders prior to our initial public offering, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, such stockholders will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of a business combination. In addition, such stockholders and their affiliates and relatives are not prohibited from purchasing our securities in the open market. If they do, we cannot assure you that persons who were stockholders prior to our initial public offering will not have considerable influence upon the vote in connection with a business combination. 19 OUR OUTSTANDING WARRANTS MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE MARKET PRICE OF COMMON STOCK AND MAKE IT MORE DIFFICULT TO EFFECT A BUSINESS COMBINATION. In connection with our initial public offering, as part of the units (including overallotments issued to the underwriters), we issued warrants to purchase 9,400,000 shares of common stock. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. IF PERSONS WHO WERE STOCKHOLDERS PRIOR TO OUR INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING EXERCISE THEIR REGISTRATION RIGHTS, IT MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE MARKET PRICE OUR COMMON STOCK AND THE EXISTENCE OF THESE RIGHTS MAY MAKE IT MORE DIFFICULT TO EFFECT A BUSINESS COMBINATION. Persons who were stockholders prior to our initial public offering are entitled to require us to register the resale of their shares of common stock at any time after the date on which their shares are released from escrow, which, except in limited circumstances, will not be before August 3, 2009. If such stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of common stock, then there will be an additional 2,250,000 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of this additional number of shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities as a result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our common stock. THE AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE MAY DELIST OUR SECURITIES FROM TRADING ON ITS EXCHANGE WHICH COULD LIMIT INVESTORS' ABILITY TO MAKE TRANSACTIONS IN OUR SECURITIES AND SUBJECT US TO ADDITIONAL TRADING RESTRICTIONS. Our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange, a national securities exchange. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange in the future prior to a business combination. Additionally, in connection with our business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. 20 If the American Stock Exchange de-lists our securities from trading on its exchange and we are not able to list our securities on another exchange or to have them quoted on NASDAQ, our securities could be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, or "pink sheets". As a result, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: · a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · a determination that our common stock is a "penny stock" which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our securities; · a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. The National Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996, which is a federal statute, prevents or preempts the states from regulating the sale of certain securities, which are referred to as "covered securities". Since we will be listed on the American Stock Exchange, our securities will be covered securities. Although the states are preempted from regulating the sale of our securities, the federal statute does allow the states to investigate companies if there is a suspicion of fraud, and if there is a finding of fraudulent activity, then the states can regulate or bar the sale of covered securities in a particular case. While we are not aware of a state having used these powers to prohibit or restrict the sale of securities issued by blank check companies generally, certain state securities regulators view blank check companies unfavorably and might use these powers, or threaten to use these powers, to hinder the sale of securities of blank check companies in their states. IF OUR COMMON STOCK BECOMES SUBJECT TO THE SEC'S PENNY STOCK RULES, BROKER-DEALERS MAY EXPERIENCE DIFFICULTY IN COMPLETING CUSTOMER TRANSACTIONS AND TRADING ACTIVITY IN OUR SECURITIES MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. If at any time our securities are no longer listed on the American Stock Exchange or another exchange or quoted on NASDAQ and we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock may be subject to the "penny stock" rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: · make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; · receive the purchaser's written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; · provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in "penny stocks" and which describe the market for these "penny stocks" as well as a purchaser's legal remedies; and 21 · obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a "penny stock" can be completed. If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. IF WE ARE DEEMED TO BE AN INVESTMENT COMPANY UNDER THE INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940, OUR ACTIVITIES MAY BE RESTRICTED WHICH, AMONG OTHER PROBLEMS, MAY MAKE IT DIFFICULT FOR US TO COMPLETE A BUSINESS COMBINATION. SUCH RESTRICTIONS INCLUDE: · restrictions on the nature of our investments; and · restrictions on the issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: · registration as an investment company; · adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and · reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. We do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may only be invested by the trust agent in “government securities” with specific maturity dates, or in money market funds meeting specific requirements under the Investment Company Act of 1940. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we were deemed to be subject to the act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense that we have not allotted for. OUR DIRECTORS MAY NOT BE CONSIDERED “INDEPENDENT” UNDER THE POLICIES OF THE NORTH AMERICAN SECURITIES ADMINISTRATORS ASSOCIATION, INC. All of our officers or directors own shares of our common stock, and no salary or other compensation will be paid to our officers or directors for services rendered by them on our behalf prior to or in connection with a business combination. We believe that two members of our board of directors are "independent" as that term is commonly used. However, under the policies of the North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc., because our directors may receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with activities on our behalf such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business combinations, state securities administrators could take the position that such individuals are not "independent." If this were the case, they would take the position that we would not have the benefit of independent directors examining the propriety of expenses incurred on our behalf and subject to reimbursement. Additionally, there is no limit on the amount of out-of-pocket expenses that could be incurred and there will be no review of the reasonableness of the expenses by anyone other than our board of directors, which would include persons who may seek reimbursement, or a court of competent jurisdiction if such reimbursement is challenged. Although we believe that all actions taken by our directors on our behalf will be in our best interests, whether or not two of them are deemed to be “independent,” we cannot assure you that this will actually be the case. If actions are taken, or expenses are incurred that are actually not in our best interests, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations and the price of our stock held by the public stockholders. 22 WE MAY ACQUIRE A DOMESTIC BUSINESS WITH OPERATIONS OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED STATES, AND MAY FACE CERTAIN ECONOMIC AND REGULATORY CHALLENGES THAT WE MAY BE UNABLE TO MEET. While we expect to acquire a business or assets in the United States, we may acquire a business or assets with operations outside the United States. There are certain risks inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in the healthcare industry, which is heavily regulated and controlled in many jurisdictions outside the United States. These risks include: · less developed healthcare infrastructures and generally higher costs; · difficulty in obtaining the necessary healthcare regulatory approvals for any potential expansion, and the possibility that any approvals that may be obtained would impose restrictions on the operation of the our business; · the inability to manage and coordinate the healthcare regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions that are constantly evolving and subject to unexpected change; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; · fluctuations in exchange rates; · reduced or no protection for intellectual property rights; and · potentially adverse tax consequences. Our inability to manage these risks effectively could adversely affect our proposed business and limit our ability to expand our operations, which would have a material adverse effect on the our business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR STOCKHOLDERS MAY BE HELD LIABLE FOR CLAIMS BY THIRD PARTIES AGAINST US TO THE EXTENT OF DISTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED BY THEM. We will dissolve and liquidate if we do not complete a business combination by August 3, 2007. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If the corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. Although we will seek stockholder approval to liquidate the trust account to our public stockholders as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. Because we will not be complying with Section 280, we will seek stockholder approval to comply with Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, requiring us to adopt a plan of dissolution that will provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims, (ii) all pending claims and (iii) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. However, because we are a blank check company, rather than an operating company, and our operations will be limited to searching for prospective target businesses to acquire, the only likely claims to arise would be from our vendors (such as accountants, lawyers, investment bankers, etc.) or potential target businesses. We intend to have all vendors and prospective target businesses execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account. As a result, the claims that could be made against us are significantly limited and the likelihood that any claim that would result in any liability extending to the trust is minimal. However, because we will not be complying with Section 280, our public stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them in dissolution and any such liability of our stockholders will likely extend beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our public stockholders amounts owed to them by us. 23 WE WILL DISSOLVE AND LIQUIDATE IF WE DO NOT CONSUMMATE A BUSINESS COMBINATION. Pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, if we do not complete a business combination by August 3, 2007, we will dissolve, liquidate and wind up. We view this obligation to dissolve and liquidate as an obligation to our public stockholders and neither we nor our board of directors will take any action to amend or waive any provision of our certificate of incorporation to allow us to survive for a longer period of time if it does not appear we will be able to consummate a business combination within the foregoing time periods. Upon dissolution, we will distribute to all of our public stockholders, in proportion to their respective equity interest, an aggregate sum equal to the amount in the trust account (net of taxes payable). Our initial stockholders have waived their rights to participate in any liquidation distribution with respect to their initial shares and have agreed to vote in favor of any plan of dissolution and liquidation which we will present to our stockholders for vote. There will be no distribution from the trust account with respect to our warrants which will expire worthless. We will pay the costs of our dissolution and liquidation of the trust account from our remaining assets outside of the trust fund, and we estimate such costs to be between $50,000 and $75,000. Upon notice from us, the trustee of the trust account will liquidate the investments constituting the trust account and will turn over the proceeds to our transfer agent for distribution to our public stockholders as part of our stockholder-approved plan of dissolution and liquidation. Concurrently, we shall pay, or reserve for payment, from funds held outside of the trust account if available, our liabilities and obligations, although we cannot give you assurances that there will be sufficient funds for such purpose. The amounts held in the trust account may be subject to claims by third parties, such as vendors, prospective target business or other entities, if we do not obtain waivers in advance from such third parties prior to such parties providing us with services or entering into arrangements with them. IF WE DO NOT CONSUMMATE A BUSINESS COMBINATION AND DISSOLVE, PAYMENTS FROM THE TRUST ACCOUNT TO OUR PUBLIC STOCKHOLDERS MAY BE DELAYED. We currently believe that any plan of dissolution and liquidation subsequent to the expiration dates described above would proceed in approximately the following manner: · our board of directors will, consistent with its obligations described in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to dissolve, prior to the passing of the such deadline, convene and adopt a specific plan of dissolution and liquidation which it will then vote to recommend to our stockholders; at such time it will also cause to be prepared a preliminary proxy statement setting out such plan of dissolution and liquidation as well as the board’s recommendation of such plan; 24 · upon such deadline, we would file our preliminary proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission; · if the Securities and Exchange Commission does not review the preliminary proxy statement, then, approximately 10 days following the passing of such deadline, we will mail the proxy statements to our stockholders, and approximately 30 days following the passing of such deadline we will convene a meeting of our stockholders, at which they will either approve or reject our plan of dissolution and liquidation; and · if the Securities and Exchange Commission does review the preliminary proxy statement, we currently estimate that we will receive their comments approximately 30 days following the passing of such deadline. We will mail the proxy statements to our stockholders following the conclusion of the comment and review process (the length of which we cannot predict with any certainty, and which may be substantial) and we will convene a meeting of our stockholders at which they will either approve or reject our plan of dissolution and liquidation. In the event we seek stockholder approval for a plan of dissolution and liquidation and do not obtain such approval, we will nonetheless continue to pursue stockholder approval for our dissolution. Our powers following the expiration of the permitted time periods for consummating a business combination will thereafter be limited to acts and activities relating to dissolving and winding up our affairs, including liquidation. The funds held in our trust account may not be distributed except upon our dissolution and, unless and until such approval is obtained from our stockholders, the funds held in our trust account will not be released. Consequently, holders of a majority of our outstanding stock must approve our dissolution in order to receive the funds held in our trust account and the funds will not be available for any other corporate purpose. These procedures, or a vote to reject any plan of dissolution and liquidation by our stockholders, may result in substantial delays in the liquidation of our trust account to our public stockholders as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE HEALTHCARE INDUSTRY With respect to the proposed acquisition of PharmAthene, we refer you to the preliminary proxy statement filed with the SEC (and final proxy statement once it has been approved) for a discussion of the material risks applicable to the industry in which PharmAthene operates. Even if we acquire domestic or international assets or operations, of which no assurances can be given, our proposed business will be subject to numerous risks, including the following: CHANGES IN THE HEALTHCARE INDUSTRY ARE SUBJECT TO VARIOUS INFLUENCES, EACH OF WHICH MAY AFFECT OUR PROSPECTIVE BUSINESS. The healthcare industry is subject to changing political, economic, and regulatory influences. These factors affect the purchasing practices and operations of healthcare organizations. Any changes in current healthcare financing and reimbursement systems could cause us to make unplanned enhancements of our prospective products or services, or result in delays or cancellations of orders, or in the revocation of endorsement of our prospective products or services by clients. Federal and state legislatures have periodically considered programs to reform or amend the U.S. healthcare system at both the federal and state level. Such programs may increase governmental regulation or involvement in healthcare, lower reimbursement rates, or otherwise change the environment in which healthcare industry participants operate. Healthcare industry participants may respond by reducing their investments or postponing investment decisions, including investments in our prospective products or services. 25 Many healthcare industry participants are consolidating to create integrated healthcare systems with greater market power. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide products and services to industry participants will become even more intense, as will the importance of establishing a relationship with each industry participant. These industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our prospective products and services. If we were forced to reduce our prices, our operating results could suffer if we could not achieve corresponding reductions in our expenses. ANY BUSINESS WE ACQUIRE WILL BE SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE GOVERNMENT REGULATION. ANY CHANGES TO THE LAWS AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING OUR PROSPECTIVE BUSINESS, OR THE INTERPRETATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF THOSE LAWS OR REGULATIONS, COULD CAUSE US TO MODIFY OUR OPERATIONS AND COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. We believe that our prospective business will be extensively regulated by the federal government and any states in which we decide to operate. The laws and regulations governing our operations, if any, are generally intended to benefit and protect persons other than our stockholders. The government agencies administering these laws and regulations have broad latitude to enforce them. These laws and regulations along with the terms of any government contracts we may enter into would regulate how we do business, what products and services we could offer, and how we would interact with the public. These laws and regulations, and their interpretations, are subject to frequent change. Changes in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or regulations could reduce our revenue, if any, by: · imposing additional capital requirements; · increasing our liability; · increasing our administrative and other costs; · increasing or decreasing mandated benefits; · forcing us to restructure our relationships with providers; or · requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. For example, Congress enacted the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 which mandates that health plans enhance privacy protections for member protected health information. This requires health plans to add, at significant cost, new administrative, information and security systems to prevent inappropriate release of protected member health information. Compliance with this law is uncertain and has affected the revenue streams of entities subject to it. Similarly, individual states periodically consider adding operational requirements applicable to health plans, often without identifying funding for these requirements. California recently required all health plans to make available to members independent medical review of their claims. Any analogous requirements applied to our prospective products or services would be costly to implement and could affect our prospective revenues. 26 We believe that our business, if any, will be subject to various routine and non-routine governmental reviews, audits and investigation. Violation of the laws governing our prospective operations, or changes in interpretations of those laws, could result in the imposition of civil or criminal penalties, the cancellation of any contracts to provide products or services, the suspension or revocation of any licenses, and exclusion from participation in government sponsored health programs, such as Medicaid and the State Children's Health Insurance Program. If we become subject to material fines or if other sanctions or other corrective actions were imposed upon us, we might suffer a substantial reduction in revenue, and might also lose one or more of our government contracts and as a result lose significant numbers of members and amounts of revenue. The current administration's issuance of new regulations, its review of the existing Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 rules and other newly published regulations, the states' ability to promulgate stricter rules, and uncertainty regarding many aspects of the regulations may make compliance with any new regulatory landscape difficult. In order to comply with any new regulatory requirements, any prospective business we acquire may be required to employ additional or different programs and systems, the costs of which are unknown to us at this time. Further, compliance with any such new regulations may lead to additional costs that we have not yet identified. We do not know whether, or the extent to which, we would be able to recover our costs of complying with any new regulations. Any new regulations and the related compliance costs could have a material adverse effect on our business. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO ATTRACT QUALIFIED HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONALS AT REASONABLE COSTS, IT COULD LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO GROW, INCREASE OUR OPERATING COSTS AND NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS. We may rely significantly on our ability to attract and retain qualified healthcare professionals who possess the skills, experience and licenses necessary to meet the certification requirements and the requirements of the hospitals, nursing homes and other healthcare facilities with which we may work, as well as the requirements of applicable state and federal governing bodies. We will compete for qualified healthcare professionals with hospitals, nursing homes and other healthcare organizations. Currently, for example, there is a shortage of qualified nurses in most areas of the United States. Therefore, competition for nursing personnel is increasing, and nurses’ salaries and benefits have risen. This may also occur with respect to other healthcare professionals on whom our business may become dependent. Our ability to attract and retain such qualified healthcare professionals will depend on several factors, including our ability to provide attractive assignments and competitive benefits and wages. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in any of these areas. Because we may operate in a fixed reimbursement environment, increases in the wages and benefits that we must provide to attract and retain qualified healthcare professionals or increases in our reliance on contract or temporary healthcare professionals could negatively affect our revenue. We may be unable to continue to increase the number of qualified healthcare professionals that we recruit, decreasing the potential for growth of our business. Moreover, if we are unable to attract and retain qualified healthcare professionals, we may have to limit the number of clients for whom we can provide any of our prospective products or services. WE MAY FACE SUBSTANTIAL RISKS OF LITIGATION AS A RESULT OF OPERATING IN THE HEALTHCARE INDUSTRY. IF WE BECOME SUBJECT TO MALPRACTICE AND RELATED LEGAL CLAIMS, WE COULD BE REQUIRED TO PAY SIGNIFICANT DAMAGES, WHICH MAY NOT BE COVERED BY INSURANCE. 27 Litigation is a risk that each business contends with, and businesses operating in the healthcare industry do so more than most. In recent years, medical product companies have issued recalls of medical products, and physicians, hospitals and other health care providers have become subject to an increasing number of legal actions alleging malpractice, product liability or related legal theories. Many of these actions involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. We intend to maintain liability insurance in amounts that we believe will be appropriate for our prospective operations. We also intend to maintain business interruption insurance and property damage insurance, as well as an additional umbrella liability insurance policy. However, this insurance coverage may not cover all claims against us. Insurance coverage may not continue to be available at a cost allowing us to maintain adequate levels of insurance. If one or more successful claims against us were not covered by or exceeded the coverage of our insurance, our financial condition could be adversely affected. WE MAY BE DEPENDENT ON PAYMENTS FROM MEDICARE AND MEDICAID. CHANGES IN THE RATES OR METHODS GOVERNING THESE PAYMENTS FOR OUR PROSPECTIVE PRODUCTS OR SERVICES, OR DELAYS IN SUCH PAYMENTS, COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR PROSPECTIVE REVENUE. A large portion of our revenue may consist of payments from Medicare and Medicaid programs. Because these are generally fixed payments, we would be at risk for the cost of any products or services provided to our clients. We cannot assure you that Medicare and Medicaid will continue to pay in the same manner or in the same amount that they currently do. Any reductions in amounts paid by government programs for our prospective products or services or changes in methods or regulations governing payments would adversely affect our potential revenue. Additionally, delays in any such payments, whether as a result of disputes or for any other reason, would also adversely affect our potential revenue. IF OUR COSTS WERE TO INCREASE MORE RAPIDLY THAN FIXED PAYMENT ADJUSTMENTS WE RECEIVE FROM MEDICARE, MEDICAID OR OTHER THIRD-PARTY PAYORS FOR ANY OF OUR POTENTIAL PRODUCTS OR SERVICES, OUR REVENUE COULD BE NEGATIVELY IMPACTED. We may receive fixed payments for our prospective products or services based on the level of service or care that we provide. Accordingly, our revenue may be largely dependent on our ability to manage costs of providing any products or services and to maintain a client base. We may become susceptible to situations where our clients may require more extensive and therefore more expensive products or services than we may be able to profitably deliver. Although Medicare, Medicaid and certain third-party payers currently provide for an annual adjustment of various payment rates based on the increase or decrease of the medical care expenditure category of the Consumer Price Index, these increases have historically been less than actual inflation. If these annual adjustments were eliminated or reduced, or if our costs of providing our products or services increased more than the annual adjustment, any revenue stream we may generate would be negatively impacted. WE MAY DEPEND ON PAYMENTS FROM THIRD-PARTY PAYORS, INCLUDING MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS. IF THESE PAYMENTS ARE REDUCED, ELIMINATED OR DELAYED, OUR PROSPECTIVE REVENUES COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. We may be dependent upon private sources of payment for any of our potential products or services. Any amounts that we may receive in payment for such products and services may be adversely affected by market and cost factors as well as other factors over which we have no control, including regulations and cost containment and utilization decisions and reduced reimbursement schedules of third-party payers. Any reductions in such payments, to the extent that we could not recoup them elsewhere, would have a material adverse effect on our prospective business and results of operations. Additionally, delays in any such payments, whether as a result of disputes or for any other reason, would have a material adverse effect on our prospective business and results of operations. 28 MEDICAL REVIEWS AND AUDITS BY GOVERNMENTAL AND PRIVATE PAYORS COULD RESULT IN MATERIAL PAYMENT RECOUPMENTS AND PAYMENT DENIALS, WHICH COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS. Medicare fiscal intermediaries and other payers may periodically conduct pre-payment or post-payment medical reviews or other audits of our prospective products or services. In order to conduct these reviews, the payer would request documentation from us and then review that documentation to determine compliance with applicable rules and regulations, including the documentation of any products or services that we might provide. We cannot predict whether medical reviews or similar audits by federal or state agencies or commercial payers of such products or services will result in material recipients or denials, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. IF THE FDA OR OTHER STATE OR FOREIGN AGENCIES IMPOSE REGULATIONS THAT AFFECT OUR POTENTIAL PRODUCTS, OUR COSTS WILL INCREASE. The development, testing, production and marketing of any of our potential products that we may manufacture, market or sell following a business combination may be subject to regulation by the FDA as "devices" under the 1976 Medical Device Amendments to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Before a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, an existing product can be marketed in the United States, it must first receive either 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. Either process can be expensive and lengthy. The FDA's 510(k) clearance process usually takes from three to twelve months, but it can take longer and is unpredictable. The process of obtaining pre-market approval is much more costly and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process and it generally takes from one to three years, or even longer, from the time the application is filed with the FDA. In the United States, medical devices must be: · manufactured in registered and quality approved establishments by the FDA; and · produced in accordance with the FDA Quality System Regulation ("QSR") for medical devices. As a result, we may be required to comply with QSR requirements and if we fail to comply with these requirements, we may need to find another company to manufacture any such devices which could delay the shipment of our potential product to our customers. The FDA requires producers of medical devices to obtain FDA licensing prior to commercialization in the United States. Testing, preparation of necessary applications and the processing of those applications by the FDA is expensive and time consuming. We do not know if the FDA would act favorably or quickly in making such reviews, and significant difficulties or costs may potentially be encountered by us in any efforts to obtain FDA licenses. The FDA may also place conditions on licenses that could restrict commercial applications of such products. Product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur following initial marketing. Delays imposed by the FDA licensing process may materially reduce the period during which we have the exclusive right to commercialize any potential patented products. We may make modifications to any potential devices and may make additional modifications in the future that we may believe do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. If the FDA should disagree, and require new clearances or approvals for the potential modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing the potential modified devices. We also may be subject to Medical Device Reporting regulations, which would require us to report to the FDA if our products were to cause or contribute to a death or serious injury, or malfunction in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. We cannot assure you that such problems will not occur in the future. 29 Additionally, our potential products may be subject to regulation by similar agencies in other states and foreign countries. Compliance with such laws or regulations, including any new laws or regulations in connection any potential products developed by us, might impose additional costs on us or marketing impediments on such products which could adversely affect our revenues and increase our expenses. The FDA and state authorities have broad enforcement powers. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA or state agencies, which may include any of the following sanctions: · warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; · repair, replacement, refunds, recall or seizure of our products; · operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; · refusal of requests for 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval of new products, new intended uses, or modifications to existing products; · withdrawal of 510(k) clearance or pre-market approvals previously granted; and · criminal prosecution. If any of these events were to occur, it could harm our business. THE FDA CAN IMPOSE CIVIL AND CRIMINAL ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS AND OTHER PENALTIES ON US IF WE WERE TO FAIL TO COMPLY WITH STRINGENT FDA REGULATIONS. Medical device manufacturing facilities must maintain records, which are available for FDA inspectors documenting that the appropriate manufacturing procedures were followed. Should we acquire such a facility as a result of a business combination, the FDA would have authority to conduct inspections of such a facility. Labeling and promotional activities are also subject to scrutiny by the FDA and, in certain instances, by the Federal Trade Commission. Any failure by us to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse inspection or to comply with applicable FDA regulations could result in enforcement action against us, including a public warning letter, a shutdown of manufacturing operations, a recall of our products, civil or criminal penalties or other sanctions. From time to time, the FDA may modify such requirements, imposing additional or different requirements which could require us to alter our business methods which could potentially result in increased expenses. 30 Government Regulation Although as of December 31, 2006, we had not entered into any agreement to acquire any operating business, we believe that any prospective business we may acquire will be extensively regulated by the federal government and any states in which we decide to operate. With respect to the proposed acquisition of PharmAthene, we refer you to the preliminary proxy statement filed with the SEC (and final proxy statement once it has been approved) for a discussion of the potential laws and regulations which will govern our operations, if any, once the PharmAthene transaction is completed. The government agencies administering these laws and regulations have broad latitude to enforce them. These laws and regulations along with the terms of any government contracts we may enter into would regulate how we do business, what products and services we could offer, and how we would interact with the public. These laws and regulations, and their interpretations, are subject to frequent change. Changes in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or regulations could reduce our revenue, if any, by: · imposing additional capital requirements; · increasing our liability; · increasing our administrative and other costs; · increasing or decreasing mandated benefits; · forcing us to restructure our relationships with providers; or · requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. For example, Congress enacted the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 which mandates that health plans enhance privacy protections for member protected health information. This requires health plans to add, at significant cost, new administrative, information and security systems to prevent inappropriate release of protected member health information. Compliance with this law is uncertain and has affected the revenue streams of entities subject to it. Similarly, individual states periodically consider adding operational requirements applicable to health plans, often without identifying funding for these requirements. California recently required all health plans to make available to members independent medical review of their claims. Any analogous requirements applied to our prospective products or services would be costly to implement and could affect our prospective revenues. We believe that our business, if any, will be subject to various routine and non-routine governmental reviews, audits and investigation. Violation of the laws governing our prospective operations, or changes in interpretations of those laws, could result in the imposition of civil or criminal penalties, the cancellation of any contracts to provide products or services, the suspension or revocation of any licenses, and exclusion from participation in government sponsored health programs, such as Medicaid and the State Children's Health Insurance Program. If we become subject to material fines or if other sanctions or other corrective actions were imposed upon us, we might suffer a substantial reduction in revenue, and might also lose one or more of our government contracts and as a result lose significant numbers of members and amounts of revenue. The current administration's issuance of new regulations, its review of the existing Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 rules and other newly published regulations, the states' ability to promulgate stricter rules, and uncertainty regarding many aspects of the regulations may make compliance with any new regulatory landscape difficult. In order to comply with any new regulatory requirements, any prospective business we acquire may be required to employ additional or different programs and systems, the costs of which are unknown to us at this time. Further, compliance with any such new regulations may lead to additional costs that we have not yet identified. We do not know whether, or the extent to which, we would be able to recover our costs of complying with any new regulations. 31 In addition, the development, testing, production and marketing of any products that we may manufacture, market or sell following a business combination may be subject to regulation by the FDA as "devices" under the 1976 Medical Device Amendments to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, as amended. Before a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, an existing product can be marketed in the United States, it must first receive either 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. Either process can be expensive and lengthy. The FDA's 510(k) clearance process usually takes from three to twelve months, but it can take longer and is unpredictable. The process of obtaining pre-market approval is much more costly and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process and it generally takes from one to three years, or even longer, from the time the application is filed with the FDA. In the United States, medical devices must be: · manufactured in registered and quality approved establishments by the FDA; and · produced in accordance with the FDA Quality System Regulation, or QSR, for medical devices. As a result, we may be required to comply with QSR requirements and if we fail to comply with these requirements, we may need to find another company to manufacture any such devices which could delay the shipment of our potential product to our customers. The FDA requires producers of medical devices to obtain FDA clearance or approval prior to commercialization in the United States. Testing, preparation of necessary applications and the processing of those applications by the FDA is expensive and time consuming. We do not know if the FDA would act favorably or quickly in making such reviews, and significant difficulties or costs may potentially be encountered by us in any efforts to obtain FDA clearance or approval. The FDA may also place conditions on clearances and approvals that could restrict commercial applications of such products. Product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur following initial marketing. Delays imposed by the FDA clearance or approval process may materially reduce the period during which we have the exclusive right to commercialize any potential patented products. We may make modifications to any potential devices and may make additional modifications in the future that we may believe do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. If the FDA should disagree, and require new clearances or approvals for the potential modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing the potential modified devices. We also may be subject to Medical Device Reporting regulations, which would require us to report to the FDA if our products were to cause or contribute to a death or serious injury, or malfunction in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. The development, testing, production and marketing of any of our potential products that we may manufacture, market or sell following a business combination may be subject to regulation by the FDA as "drugs." All "new drugs" must be the subject of an FDA-approved new drug application (NDA) and all new biologics products must be the subject of a biologics license application (BLA) before they may be marketed in the United States. All generic equivalents to previously approved drugs or new dosage forms of existing drugs must be the subject of an FDA-approved abbreviated new drug application (ANDA) before they may be marketed in the United States. In all cases, the FDA has the authority to determine what testing procedures are appropriate for a particular product and, in some instances, has not published or otherwise identified guidelines as to the appropriate procedures. The FDA has the authority to withdraw existing NDA, BLA and ANDA approvals and to review the regulatory status of products marketed under its enforcement policies. The FDA may require an approved NDA, BLA, or ANDA for any drug or biologic product marketed to be recalled or withdrawn under its enforcement policy if new information reveals questions about the drug or biologic's safety or effectiveness. All drugs must be manufactured in conformity with current good manufacturing practice regulations (GMPs) and drugs and biologics subject to an approved NDA, BLA, or ANDA must be manufactured, processed, packaged, held and labeled in accordance with information contained in those approvals. The required product testing and approval process for new drugs and biologics ordinarily takes several years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Testing of any product under development may not result in a commercially-viable product. Even after such time and expenses, regulatory approval by the FDA may not be obtained for any products developed. In addition, delays or rejections may be encountered based upon changes in FDA policy during the period of product development and FDA review. Any regulatory approval may impose limitations in the indicated use for the product. Even if regulatory approval is obtained, a marketed product, its manufacturer and its manufacturing facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections. Subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the product or manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market. 32 Even if required FDA approval has been obtained with respect to a new drug or biologic product, foreign regulatory approval of a product must also be obtained prior to marketing the product internationally. Foreign approval procedures vary from country to country and the time required for approval may delay or prevent marketing. The clinical testing requirements and the time required to obtain foreign regulatory approvals may differ from that required for FDA approval. Although there is now a centralized European Union approval mechanism for new pharmaceutical products in place, each European Union member state may nonetheless impose its own procedures and requirements, many of which are time consuming and expensive, and some European Union member states require price approval as part of the regulatory approval process. Thus, there can be substantial delays in obtaining required approval from both the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. Employees As of December 31, 2006, we had three officers, all of whom are also members of our board of directors, and no other employees. These individuals are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week and intend to devote only as much time as they deem necessary to our affairs. The amount of time they will devote in any time period will vary based on the availability of suitable target businesses to investigate, although we expect such individuals to devote an average of approximately ten hours per week to our business. Our officers have devoted a significant amount of time to the proposed acquisition with PharmAthene. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable as of December 31, 2006. 33 Item 