Item 1A. Risk Factors - Continued Changes to current federal tax laws may affect unitholders’ ability to take certain tax deductions. Substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws have been proposed that, if adopted, would affect, among other things, the ability to take certain operations-related deductions, including deductions for intangible drilling and percentage depletion and deductions for United States production activities. Other proposed changes may affect our ability to remain taxable as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any changes, or other proposals to such laws, ultimately will be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our units. The adoption of derivatives legislation by the United States Congress could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. Several proposals for derivative reform have been developed by committees in the United States House of Representatives and the United States Senate. These proposals are focused on expanding federal regulation surrounding the use of financial derivative instruments, including credit default swaps, commodity derivatives and other over-the-counter derivatives. Among the recommendations included in the proposals are the requirements for centralized clearing or settling of such derivatives as well as the expansion of collateral margin requirements for certain derivative-market participants. Depending on the ultimate form of legislation, our derivatives utilization could be adversely affected with: (i) greater administrative burden; (ii) limitations on the form and use of derivatives; and (iii) expanded collateral margin requirements. Although it is not possible at this time to predict when the United States Congress may act on derivatives legislation, any laws or regulations that may be adopted that subject us to additional restrictions on our commodity derivative positions could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 