Item 1A. Risk Factors This section describes circumstances or events that could have a negative effect on our financial results or operations or that could change, for the worse, existing trends in some or all of our businesses. The occurrence of one or more of the circumstances or events described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or on the trading prices of our Common Stock and Convertible Notes or of securities that we may issue in the future. The risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us, or that we currently believe are immaterial, may also adversely affect our business and operations. Risks Related to Our Operations and the Healthcare Content We Provide If we are unable to provide content and services that attract users to The WebMD Health Network on a consistent basis, our advertising and sponsorship revenue could be reduced Users of The WebMD Health Network have numerous other online and offline sources of healthcare information and related services. Our ability to compete for user traffic on our public portals depends upon our ability to make available a variety of health, wellness and medical content, decision-support applications and other services that meet the needs of a variety of types of users, including consumers, physicians and other healthcare professionals, with a variety of reasons for seeking information. Our ability to do so depends, in turn, on: • our ability to hire and retain qualified authors, journalists and independent writers; • our ability to license quality content from third parties; and • our ability to monitor and respond to increases and decreases in user interest in specific topics. If consumers and healthcare professionals do not perceive our content, applications and tools to be useful, reliable and trustworthy, we may not be able to attract or retain users or otherwise maintain or increase the frequency and duration of their engagement with our health information services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to develop or acquire needed content, applications and tools at a reasonable cost. In addition, since consumer users of our public portals may be attracted to The WebMD Health Network as a result of a specific condition or for a specific purpose, it is difficult for us to predict the rate at which they will return to our public portals. Because we generate revenue by, among other things, selling sponsorships of specific pages, sections or events on The WebMD Health Network, a decline in user traffic levels or a reduction in the number of pages viewed by users could cause our revenue to decrease and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A significant portion of the traffic to The WebMD Health Network is directed to us through algorithmic search results on Internet search engines and, if we are listed less prominently in search result listings, our business and operating results could be harmed A significant portion of the traffic to The WebMD Health Network is directed to us through the algorithmic search results on Internet search engines such as Google. Algorithms are developed and used by search engine providers to determine the listings, and the order of such listings, displayed in response to specific searches. Accordingly, in addition to providing quality content and tools, we seek to design our Websites to deliver the content and tools in ways that will cause them to rank well in algorithmic search engine results, which makes it more likely that search engine users will visit our Websites. This is commonly referred to as search engine optimization, or SEO. However, there can be no assurance that our SEO efforts will succeed in improving the ranking of our content or, even if they do result in such improvement, that the improved ranking will result in increased numbers of users and page views for our Websites. In addition, search engines frequently change the criteria that determine site rankings in their search results and our SEO efforts will not be successful if we do not respond to those changes appropriately and on a timely basis. One factor that we believe significantly reduced traffic, in the first half of 2013, to some of the consumer sites in The WebMD Health Network (other than WebMD.com, our flagship site) was changes in Google’s algorithms and other processes that lowered the 32 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements ranking of those sites in Google search results during that period. Although we saw a reversal of this trend beginning in the third quarter of 2013, we cannot be certain whether the improvement will continue or, if it does, how long it can be maintained. Search engine providers may also prioritize search results generated by certain types of queries, including health-related queries, based on criteria they select or may otherwise intermediate in the search results generated, which could, in some circumstances, reduce the ranking that would otherwise be provided to our Websites and increase the ranking of other sites. If we are unable to respond effectively to changes made by search engine providers in their algorithms and other processes, a substantial decrease in traffic to The WebMD Health Network could occur, which could cause our revenue to decrease and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Increasingly, individuals are using mobile devices to access online content and services and, if we fail to capture a significant share of this portion of the market for online health information services or fail to generate revenue from it, our business could be adversely affected The number of people who access online content and services through smartphones, tablets and other mobile devices has increased dramatically in the past few years, including the number of physicians and other healthcare professionals who do so. Accordingly, the portion of our page views from mobile devices has increased rapidly and is expected to continue to increase. In addition, for each of the first three quarters of 2013, we experienced a year-over-year decline in page views from personal computers (or PCs) as the usage from mobile devices has increased. It is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in developing and maintaining competitive mobile services and we may need to devote significant resources to their creation, maintenance and support. We do not currently generate meaningful revenue from our mobile health information services on smartphones, and our ability to do so successfully is unproven. Even if demand for our mobile platforms and applications exists and we achieve a significant share of the usage of mobile health information services on smartphones, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve significant revenue or profits from these services. Although monetization of tablet page views is generally similar to monetization of PC page views, the monetization of smartphone page views will require different strategies and techniques because of the smaller screen size. We are in the early stages of developing and testing those strategies and techniques and, accordingly, cannot provide assurance that our efforts to monetize smartphone page views will be successful or, even if they begin to produce some positive results, how long that would last in light of changing preferences of users and of advertisers and sponsors, ongoing technological changes and changes in applicable laws, regulations and other standards. If users access our services through smartphones as a substitute for access through personal computers and tablets, and if we are unable to successfully implement monetization strategies for smartphone traffic, our revenue and financial results may be negatively affected. We face significant competition for our healthcare information products and services The markets for healthcare information products and services are intensely competitive, continually evolving and, in some cases, subject to rapid change. • The WebMD Health Network faces competition from numerous other companies, both in attracting users and in generating revenue from advertisers and sponsors. We compete for users with Websites and mobile applications that provide health-related information, including both commercial ones and not-for-profit ones. We compete for advertisers and sponsors with: health-related Websites and mobile applications; general interest consumer Websites that offer specialized health sub-channels or functions; other high-traffic Websites that include both healthcare-related and non-healthcare-related content and services, including social media Websites; search engines that provide specialized health search; and advertising networks that aggregate traffic from multiple sites. The WebMD Health Network also faces competition from traditional media and offline publications and information services. • Our WebMD Health Services private portals and coaching services compete with: providers of healthcare decision-support tools and online health management applications, including personal health records; wellness and disease management vendors; and health information services and health management offerings of healthcare benefits companies and their affiliates. 33 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and other resources than we do. These organizations may be better known than we are and have more customers or users than we do. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against these organizations. In addition, we expect that competitors will continue to enter these markets. The competition we face for our services may result in fewer or smaller customer commitments or pressure to reduce prices, which could reduce our profit margins. Developing and implementing new and updated features and services for our public and private portals and our mobile applications may be more difficult than expected, may take longer and cost more than expected, and may not result in sufficient increases in revenue to justify the costs Attracting and retaining users of our public portals and our mobile applications and clients for our private portals requires us to continue to improve the technology underlying those portals and applications and to continue to develop new and updated features and services for those portals and applications. If we are unable to do so on a timely basis or if we are unable to implement new features and services without disruption to our existing ones, we may lose potential users and clients. We rely on a combination of internal development, strategic relationships, licensing and acquisitions to develop our portals, mobile applications and related features and services. Our development and/or implementation of new technologies, features and services may cost more than expected, may take longer than originally expected, may require more testing than originally anticipated and may require the acquisition of additional personnel and other resources. There can be no assurance that the revenue opportunities from any new or updated technologies, applications, features or services will justify the amounts spent. Failure to effectively identify, assess and pursue new business initiatives could adversely affect our company and its prospects We are working to broaden our portfolio of services and taking steps to diversify our client base and revenue streams. Some of the business initiatives we are working on have challenges that are different than those associated with our existing products and services and could strain our financial, operational and management resources. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the potential revenue streams from any investments that we may make in pursuing new business opportunities will justify the amounts spent. Failure to effectively identify, assess and pursue new business initiatives may adversely affect our company and its prospects. Failure to enhance the analytic capabilities we use to demonstrate the value of our services to advertisers and sponsors could adversely affect our ability to market our services We are working to enhance the analytic capabilities we use to demonstrate to advertisers and sponsors how promotional strategies implemented through The WebMD Health Network impact physician and consumer behaviors and preferences. Our ability to demonstrate the value of advertising and sponsorship on The WebMD Health Network will depend, in part, on the accuracy of our analytics and measurement capabilities, on our ability to develop reporting tools using the capabilities and our ability to further improve such capabilities and tools. If we are unable to enhance our analytic capabilities, it could adversely affect our ability to market our services and we may lose business to competitors even if our advertising and sponsorship services are superior to theirs. Restrictions on our ability to access or use various forms and sources of data could adversely impact our business We are increasingly using data analytics based on information that we collect regarding usage of our public portals, as well as other third party sources of data. Our use of data regarding users of our public portals is governed by the privacy policies posted on those sites and is designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including HIPAA, as is our use of any third-party data. In addition, we sell certain information products on a standalone basis utilizing de-identified data that we license from a third-party source. Changes to our ability to access or use data could adversely affect our ability to implement improved analytics or to offer information products on a standalone basis. Accordingly, our business could be adversely impacted if, for any reason (including, but not limited to, changes in applicable laws and regulations) the data we use becomes 34 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements unavailable or the conditions on its availability are not commercially reasonable or are inconsistent with our planned usage. In addition, the quality of our data analytics depends on the reliability of the information that we are able to obtain. If the information we use contains errors or is otherwise unreliable, analyses we create and actions we take based on those analyses could be wrong, which could hurt our reputation and business. Failure to maintain and enhance the “WebMD” and “Medscape” brands could have a material adverse effect on our business We believe that the “WebMD” and “Medscape” brand identities that we have developed have contributed to the success of our business and have helped us achieve recognition as a trusted source of health and wellness information and tools for consumers and of online content for physicians and other healthcare professionals. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing those brands is important to expanding the user base for our public portals and to our relationships with sponsors and advertisers. The “WebMD” brand is also important to our ability to gain additional employer and healthcare payer clients for our private portals. We have expended considerable resources on establishing and enhancing the “WebMD” and “Medscape” brands and our other brands, and we have developed policies and procedures designed to preserve and enhance our brands, including editorial procedures designed to provide quality control of the information we publish. We expect to continue to devote resources and efforts to maintain and enhance our brands. However, we may not be able to successfully maintain or enhance our brands, and events outside of our control may have a negative effect on our brands. If we are unable to maintain or enhance our brands, and do so in a cost-effective manner, our business could be adversely affected. We have a limited operating history We have a limited operating history and participate in relatively new markets. These markets, and our business, have undergone significant changes during their short history and can be expected to continue to change. Many companies with business plans based on providing healthcare information and related services through the Internet have failed to be profitable and some have filed for bankruptcy or ceased operations. Even if demand from users exists, we cannot assure you that our business will be profitable. Our failure to attract and retain qualified executives and employees may have a material adverse effect on our business Our business depends largely on the skills, experience and performance of key members of our management team and other key employees. We also depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified writers and editors, software developers and other technical personnel and sales and marketing personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the healthcare information services and Internet industries is intense. We cannot assure you that we will be able to hire or retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel to meet our requirements, or that we will be able to do so at costs that are acceptable to us. Failure to do so may have an adverse effect on our business. Our advertising and sponsorship revenue may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and its amount and timing may be subject to factors beyond our control, including regulatory changes Our advertising and sponsorship revenue may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control, and some of which may be difficult to forecast accurately, including potential effects on demand for our services as a result of regulatory changes affecting advertising and promotion of drugs and medical devices and general economic conditions. The majority of our advertising and sponsorship programs are for terms of approximately four to twelve months. We have relatively few longer term advertising and sponsorship programs. We cannot assure you that our current advertisers and sponsors will continue to use our services beyond the terms of their existing contracts or that they will enter into any additional contracts. The time between the date of initial contact with a potential advertiser or sponsor regarding a specific program and the execution of a contract with the advertiser or sponsor for that program, as well as the additional time period before our services are delivered, may be longer than expected, especially for medium-sized and larger contracts, and may be subject to delays over which we have little or no control, including as a result of 35 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements budgetary constraints of the advertiser or sponsor or their need for internal approvals, including internal approvals relating to compliance with the laws and regulations applicable to the marketing of healthcare products. We have experienced, from time to time, a lengthening of this internal review process by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, which has resulted in delays in contracting as well as delays in recognizing expected revenue under executed contracts and which may continue to cause such delays. Other factors that could affect the timing of contracting for specific programs with advertisers and sponsors, or receipt of revenue under such contracts, include: • the timing of Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for new products or for new approved uses for existing products; • the timing of FDA approval of generic products that compete with existing brand name products and any increase in the number or significance of such approvals; • the timing of withdrawals of products from the market; • consolidation of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries; • the timing of rollouts of new or enhanced services on our public portals; • seasonal factors relating to the prevalence of specific health conditions and other seasonal factors that may affect the timing of promotional campaigns for specific products; and • the scheduling of conferences for physicians and other healthcare professionals. Some of our pharmaceutical company customers have experienced patent expirations for certain of their products in the past several years and some are expected to experience patent expirations over the next several years. In the pharmaceutical industry, patent expirations allow for competition from lower-priced generic versions of the patented drugs and generally result in the termination of marketing efforts for the drug. In 2012, we believe that patent expirations led to, and could in the future lead to, overall reductions in marketing, selling and educational expenditures by some of these pharmaceutical companies across their entire product portfolios. We may be unsuccessful in our efforts to generate advertising and sponsorship revenue from consumer products companies Much of our advertising and sponsorship revenue has, in the past, come from pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies. We also seek to generate advertising and sponsorship revenue from consumer products companies that are interested in communicating health-related or safety-related information about their products to our audience. However, while many consumer products companies are increasing the portion of their promotional spending used on the Internet, we cannot assure you that these advertisers and sponsors will find our consumer Websites to be as effective for promoting their products and services as competing channels, which include traditional media, Internet search engines, social media Internet sites, general interest consumer sites, and numerous other alternatives. Competition for this business may also result in smaller customer commitments or pressure to reduce prices, both of which could reduce our profit margins even if we are able to generate revenue. In addition, revenues from consumer products companies are more likely to reflect general economic conditions, and to be reduced to a greater extent during economic downturns, than revenues from pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies. Accordingly, revenues from this portion of our business may be subject to significant quarter-to-quarter variations and we may be unsuccessful in our efforts to develop it further. Lengthy sales and implementation cycles for our WebMD Health Services private online portals make it difficult to forecast our revenues from these applications and may have an adverse impact on our business The period from our initial contact with a potential client for a private online portal and entry into a contract for a subscription to our solution by the client is difficult to predict. In the past, this period has generally ranged from six to twelve months, but in some cases has been longer. Potential contracts may be subject to delays or cancellations due to a client’s internal procedures for approving large expenditures and other factors beyond our control, including the effect of general economic conditions on the willingness of potential clients to subscribe to our WebMD Health Services solution. The time it takes to implement a private online portal is also difficult to predict and has lasted as long as six months from contract execution to the commencement of live operation. 36 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Implementation may be subject to delays based on the availability of the internal resources of the client that are needed and other factors outside of our control. As a result, we have limited ability to forecast the timing of revenue from new clients. This, in turn, makes it more difficult to forecast our financial performance for future periods. In addition, some of our client contracts may permit termination, by the client, prior to the end of the stated contract term, which can also make it more difficult to forecast our future financial performance. During the contracting cycle and the implementation period, we may expend substantial time, effort and money preparing contract proposals, negotiating contracts and implementing our population health management platform without receiving any related revenue. In addition, many of the expenses related to providing our platform are relatively fixed in the short term, including personnel costs and technology and infrastructure costs. If our private portal services revenue is lower than expected, we may not be able to reduce related short-term spending in response. Any shortfall in such revenue would have a direct impact on our results of operations. Our ability to renew existing agreements with employers and health plans will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to increase usage of our private portal services by their employees and plan members In a healthcare market where a greater share of the responsibility for healthcare costs and decision-making has been shifting to consumers, use of information technology (including personal health records) to assist consumers in making informed decisions about healthcare has also increased. We believe that through our WebMD Health Services private online portals, including our personal health record application, we are well positioned to play a role in this environment. However, our strategy depends, in part, on increasing usage of our services by our employer and health plan clients’ employees and plan participants and being able to demonstrate a sufficient return on investment and other benefits for our clients from those services. Increasing usage of our private portal services requires us to continue to develop new and updated applications, features and services. In addition, we face competition in the area of healthcare decision-support tools and online health management applications and health information services. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and other resources than we do, and may be better known than we are. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to meet our development and implementation goals or that we will be able to compete successfully against other vendors offering competitive services and, if we are unable to do so, we may experience static or diminished usage for our private portal services and possible non-renewals of our customer agreements. We are beginning to provide condition management services to clients of our WebMD Health Services private portals, which will involve additional risks and challenges and which may not be profitable We are beginning to provide condition management services to clients of our WebMD Health Services private portals and plan to expand that portion of our business. Our initial offerings include programs targeting individuals struggling with obesity, diabetes, coronary artery disease and congestive heart failure. Our condition management programs include ongoing, intensive one-on-one coaching by condition specialists, along with targeted online resources and progress tracking tools. Providing condition management services involves new risks and challenges for us, including: the need to obtain and retain necessary licenses, permits and regulatory clearances and approvals related to these services; difficulty in quantifying the costs savings and other benefits for our clients from these services; and difficulty in differentiating our condition management services from those of competitors, some of whom may be able to provide such services at a lower cost. We cannot predict the demand among our existing private portals clients and other potential clients for our condition management services and cannot provide assurance that the revenue opportunities from providing these services will justify the costs involved in developing the required capabilities and delivering the services to clients. Contractual relationships with governmental customers may impose special burdens on us and provide special benefits to those customers, including the right to change or terminate the contract in response to budgetary constraints or policy changes A portion of our revenues come from customers that are governmental agencies or vendors to such agencies. Government contracts and subcontracts may be subject to some or all of the following: • termination when appropriated funding for the current fiscal year is exhausted or becomes unavailable; 37 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • termination for the governmental customer’s convenience, subject to a negotiated settlement for costs incurred and profit on work completed, along with the right to place contracts out for bid before the full contract term, as well as the right to make unilateral changes in contract requirements, subject to negotiated price adjustments; • “most-favored” pricing disclosure requirements that are designed to ensure that the government can negotiate and receive pricing akin to that offered commercially and requirements to submit proprietary cost or pricing data to ensure that government contract pricing is fair and reasonable; • commercial customer price tracking requirements that require contractors to monitor pricing offered to a specified class of customers and to extend price reductions offered to that class of customers to the government; • reporting and compliance requirements related to, among other things: equal employment opportunity, affirmative action for veterans and for workers with disabilities, and accessibility for the disabled; • broader audit rights than we would usually grant to non-governmental customers; and • specialized remedies for breach and default or failure to meet service level commitments, including setoff rights, retroactive price adjustments, and civil or criminal fraud penalties, as well as mandatory administrative dispute resolution procedures instead of state contract law remedies. In addition, certain violations of federal law may subject government contractors to having their contracts terminated and, under certain circumstances, suspension and/or debarment from future government contracts. Expansion to markets outside the United States will subject us to additional risks One element of our growth strategy is to seek to expand our online services to markets outside the United States. In certain markets outside the United States, we expect to accomplish this through partnerships or joint ventures with other companies having expertise in the specific country or region, while in other such markets we expect to rely primarily on our own internal resources. For example, in certain markets outside of the United States, we are providing some of our online services in the local language directly to healthcare professionals. The provision of online services in foreign languages presents additional challenges. Our company has only recently begun this activity and, therefore, has limited experience in this area. Our participation in international markets is subject to certain other risks beyond those applicable to our operations in the United States, such as: • challenges caused by cultural differences; • difficulties in staffing and managing operations from a distance; • uncertainty regarding liability for services and content; • burdens of complying with a wide variety of legal, regulatory and market requirements; • variability of economic and political conditions, including the extent of the impact of adverse economic conditions in markets outside the United States; • tariffs or other trade barriers; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on repatriation of earnings; and • difficulties in protecting intellectual property. Furthermore, outside the United States, we face competition from locally-based companies that have experience doing business in their home countries or regions and familiarity with local business practices, customs and laws and, as a result, generally do not face, or are better positioned to face, the risks described above. 38 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Risks Related to the Internet and Our Technological Infrastructure Any service interruption or failure in the systems that we use to provide online services could harm our business Our online services are designed to operate 24 hours a day, seven days a week, without interruption. However, we have experienced and expect that we will in the future experience interruptions and delays in services and availability from time to time. We rely on internal systems as well as third-party vendors, including data center providers, bandwidth providers and mobile carriers, to provide our online services. We may not maintain redundant systems or facilities for some of these services. In the event of a catastrophic event with respect to one or more of these systems or facilities, we may experience an extended period of system unavailability, which could negatively impact our relationship with users. In addition, system failures may result in loss of data, including user registration data, business intelligence data, content, and other data critical to the operation of our online services, which could cause significant harm to our business and our reputation. To operate without interruption or loss of data, both we and our service providers must guard against: • damage from fire, power loss and other natural disasters; • communications failures; • software and hardware errors, failures and crashes; • security breaches, computer viruses, distributed denial-of-service (DDOS) attacks and similar disruptive problems; and • other potential service interruptions. Any disruption in the network access or co-location services provided by third-party providers to us or any failure by these third-party providers or our own systems to handle current or higher volume of use could significantly harm our business. We exercise little control over these third-party vendors, which increases our vulnerability to problems with services they provide. Any errors, failures, interruptions or delays experienced in connection with these third-party technologies and information services or our own systems could negatively impact our relationships with users and adversely affect our brand and our business and could expose us to liabilities to third parties. Although we maintain insurance for our business, the coverage under our policies may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at an acceptable cost. Implementation of additions to or changes in hardware and software platforms used to deliver our online services may result in performance problems and may not provide the additional functionality that was expected From time to time, we implement additions to or changes in the hardware and software platforms we use for providing our online services. During and after the implementation of additions or changes, a platform may not perform as expected, which could result in interruptions in operations, an increase in response time or an inability to track performance metrics. In addition, in connection with integrating acquired businesses, we may move their operations to our hardware and software platforms or make other changes, any of which could result in interruptions in those operations. Any significant interruption in our ability to operate any of our online services could have an adverse effect on our relationships with users and clients and, as a result, on our financial results. We rely on a combination of purchasing, licensing, internal development, and acquisitions to develop our hardware and software platforms. Our implementation of additions to or changes in these platforms may cost more than originally expected, may take longer than originally expected, and may require more testing than originally anticipated. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that additions to or changes in these platforms will provide the additional functionality and other benefits that were originally expected. 39 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If the systems we use to provide online portals experience security breaches or are otherwise perceived to be insecure, our business could suffer We retain and transmit confidential information, including personal health records, in the processing centers and other facilities we use to provide online services. It is critical that these facilities and infrastructure remain secure and be perceived by the marketplace as secure. A security breach could damage our reputation or result in liability. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches and hackers or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. Despite the implementation of security measures, this infrastructure or other systems that we interface with, including the Internet and related systems, may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, hackers, improper employee or contractor access, computer viruses, programming errors, denial-of-service attacks or other attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. Any compromise of our security, whether as a result of our own systems or the systems that they interface with, could reduce demand for our services and could subject us to legal claims from our clients and users, including for breach of contract or breach of warranty. Our online services are dependent on the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure Our ability to deliver our online services is dependent on the development and maintenance of the infrastructure of the Internet by third parties. The Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damages to portions of its infrastructure, and it could face outages and delays in the future. The Internet has also experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, significant growth in the number of users and the amount of traffic. If the Internet continues to experience increased usage, the Internet infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it. In addition, the reliability and performance of the Internet may be harmed by increased usage or by denial-of-service attacks. Any resulting interruptions in our services or increases in response time could, if significant, result in a loss of potential or existing users of and advertisers and sponsors on our Websites and, if sustained or repeated, could reduce the attractiveness of our services. Customers who utilize our online services depend on Internet service providers and other Website operators for access to our Websites. All of these providers have experienced significant outages in the past and could experience outages, delays and other difficulties in the future due to system failures unrelated to our systems. Any such outages or other failures on their part could reduce traffic to our Websites. Third parties may challenge the enforceability of our online agreements The law governing the validity and enforceability of online agreements and other electronic transactions is evolving. We could be subject to claims by third parties that the online terms and conditions for use of our Websites, including disclaimers or limitations of liability, are unenforceable. A finding by a court that these terms and conditions or other online agreements are invalid could harm our business. We could be subject to breach of warranty or other claims by clients of our online portals if the software and systems we use to provide them contain errors or experience failures Errors in the software and systems we use could cause serious problems for clients of our online portals. We may fail to meet contractual performance standards or client expectations. Clients of our online portals may seek compensation from us or may seek to terminate their agreements with us, withhold payments due to us, seek refunds from us of part or all of the fees charged under those agreements or initiate litigation or other dispute resolution procedures. In addition, we could face breach of warranty or other claims by clients or additional development costs. Our software and systems are inherently complex and, despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that they will perform as planned. We attempt to limit, by contract, our liability to our clients for damages arising from our negligence, errors or mistakes. However, contractual limitations on liability may not be enforceable in certain circumstances or may otherwise not provide sufficient protection to us from liability for damages. We maintain liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors and omissions. However, it is possible that claims could exceed the amount of our applicable insurance coverage, if any, or that this coverage may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, investigating and 40 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements defending against them would be expensive and time consuming and could divert management’s attention away from our operations. In addition, negative publicity caused by these events may delay or hinder market acceptance of our services, including unrelated services. Risks Related to the Healthcare Industry, Healthcare Regulation and Internet Regulation Developments in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business Most of our revenue is derived from the healthcare industry and could be affected by changes affecting healthcare spending. We are particularly dependent on pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies for our advertising and sponsorship revenue. General reductions in expenditures by healthcare industry participants could result from, among other things: • government regulation or private initiatives that affect the manner in which healthcare providers interact with patients, payers or other healthcare industry participants, including changes in pricing or means of delivery of healthcare products and services; • consolidation of healthcare industry participants; • reductions in governmental funding for healthcare; and • adverse changes in business or economic conditions affecting healthcare payers or providers, pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical device companies or other healthcare industry participants. Federal and state legislatures and agencies periodically consider reforming aspects of the United States healthcare system. Significant federal healthcare reform legislation was enacted in March 2010, as discussed in the next risk factor. Additionally, in Europe, the national health care systems may be reformed from time to time. Even if general expenditures by industry participants remain the same or increase, developments in the healthcare industry may result in reduced spending in some or all of the specific market segments that we serve or are planning to serve. For example, use of our products and services could be affected by: • changes in the design of health insurance plans; • the timing of FDA, or European or other national regulatory authority, approvals of generic products that compete with existing brand name products and any increase in the number or significance of such approvals or of withdrawals of brand name products from the market; • the timing of FDA, or European or other national regulatory authority, approvals for new products or few new approved uses for existing products and any decrease in the number or significance of new drugs or medical devices coming to market or new approved uses for existing such products; and • decreases in marketing expenditures by pharmaceutical or medical device companies, including as a result of governmental regulation or private initiatives that discourage or prohibit advertising, sponsorship or educational activities by pharmaceutical or medical device companies or that discourage or prohibit their use of online services for some or all such activities. In addition, our customers’ expectations regarding pending or potential industry developments may also affect their budgeting processes and spending plans with respect to products and services of the types we provide. The healthcare industry has changed significantly in recent years, and we expect that significant changes will continue to occur. However, the timing and impact of developments in the healthcare industry are difficult to predict. We cannot assure you that the markets for our products and services will continue to exist at current levels or that we will have adequate technical, financial and marketing resources to react to changes in those markets. 41 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The Affordable Care Act could adversely affect our healthcare industry customers and clients, causing them to reduce expenditures, including expenditures for our services The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (which we refer to as the Affordable Care Act), was signed into law in March 2010. The Affordable Care Act makes extensive changes to the system of healthcare insurance and benefits in the U.S. In general, the Affordable Care Act seeks to reduce healthcare costs and decrease the number of uninsured legal U.S. residents by, among other things, requiring individuals to carry, and certain employers to offer, health insurance or be subject to penalties. The Affordable Care Act also imposes new regulations on health insurers, including guaranteed coverage requirements, prohibitions on certain annual and all lifetime limits on amounts paid on behalf of or to plan members, increased restrictions on rescinding coverage, establishment of minimum medical loss ratio requirements, a requirement to cover certain preventive services on a first dollar basis, the establishment of state insurance exchanges and essential benefit packages, and greater limitations on how health insurers price certain of their products. The Affordable Care Act also contains provisions that will affect the revenues and profits of pharmaceutical and medical device companies, including new taxes on certain sales of their products. Many of the provisions of the Affordable Care Act that expand insurance coverage did not become effective until 2014, and some will not become effective until later, and many provisions will require additional regulations and interpretive guidance to be issued before they will be fully implemented. Some provisions do not apply to health plans that were in place when the Affordable Care Act was enacted and have not been substantially changed since. It is difficult to foresee how individuals and businesses will respond to the choices available to them under the Affordable Care Act. Furthermore, the Affordable Care Act will result in future state legislative and regulatory changes, which we are unable to predict at this time, in order for states to comply with certain provisions of the Affordable Care Act and to participate in grants and other incentive opportunities. In addition, Congress has considered various proposals to repeal some or all of the Affordable Care Act. Accordingly, while we do not currently anticipate any significant adverse effects on WebMD as a direct result of application of the Affordable Care Act to our business or on our company in its capacity as an employer, we are unable to predict what the indirect impacts of the Affordable Care Act will be on WebMD’s business through its effects on other healthcare industry participants, including pharmaceutical and medical device companies that are advertisers and sponsors of our public portals and employers and health plans that are clients of our WebMD Health Services private portals. Healthcare industry participants may respond to the Affordable Care Act or to uncertainties created by the Affordable Care Act by reducing their expenditures or postponing expenditure decisions, including expenditures for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Government regulation of healthcare creates risks and challenges with respect to our compliance efforts and our business strategies The healthcare industry is highly regulated and is subject to changing political, legislative, regulatory and other influences. Existing and new laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry could create unexpected liabilities for us, could cause us to incur additional costs and could restrict our operations. Many healthcare laws are complex, and their application to specific products, services, and business arrangements may not be clear. In particular, many existing healthcare laws and regulations, when enacted, did not anticipate the healthcare information services that we provide. However, these laws and regulations may nonetheless be applied to our products, services, and business arrangements. Our failure to accurately anticipate the application of these laws and regulations, or other failure to comply, could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity and negatively affect our business. Even in areas where we are not subject to healthcare regulation directly, we may become involved in governmental actions or investigations through our relationships with customers that are regulated, and participation in such actions or investigations, even if we are not a party and not the subject of an investigation, may cause us to incur significant expenses. Some of the risks we face from healthcare regulation are as follows: • Regulation of Drug and Medical Device Advertising and Promotion. The WebMD Health Network provides services involving advertising and promotion of prescription and over-the-counter drugs and medical devices and claims of nutritional supplements. If the FDA or the Federal Trade Commission 42 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements (FTC) finds that any of our products and services or any information on The WebMD Health Network, in our mobile applications, or in WebMD Magazine violates applicable regulations and guidance documents, they may take regulatory or judicial action against us and/or the advertiser or sponsor of that information. State attorneys general may take similar action based on their state’s consumer protection statutes. Any increase or change in regulation of drug or medical device advertising and promotion could make it more difficult for us to contract for sponsorships and advertising. In January 2014, the FDA issued a draft guidance clarifying the application of the FDA’s promotional regulations to certain content on social media Websites. We cannot predict how our customers or others in the industry might implement the FDA’s guidance in the future or how its implementation might affect our business. Recent private industry initiatives have resulted in voluntary restrictions, which advertisers and sponsors have agreed to follow. Advertising restrictions apply not only to our business in the United States but also to our operations in Europe. Our European Websites belonging to The WebMD Health Network must comply with the national laws of the respective countries whose physicians they address. Under these European laws, there are several restrictions regarding advertising of drugs or medical devices. There are, in particular, broad prohibitions on the advertising of prescription or reimbursed drugs to the general public, the use of indirect or disguised marketing, and the offering and providing of gifts or benefits with promotional purpose which are not only of minor value. If the relevant European national competent authorities find that any of our products and services, or any information on our Websites or in our mobile applications, violated applicable regulations, they may take regulatory or judicial action against us and/or the advertisers or sponsors of that information. Moreover, our competitors, or even competitors of advertisers and sponsors, may take actions against us and/or advertisers or sponsors of the information. Our advertising and sponsorship revenue could be materially reduced by additional restrictions on the advertising of prescription drugs and medical devices to consumers, whether imposed by law or regulation or required under policies adopted by industry members. • Anti-Kickback Laws. There are federal and state laws that govern patient referrals, physician financial relationships and inducements to healthcare providers and patients. The federal healthcare program anti-kickback law prohibits any person or entity from offering, paying, soliciting or receiving anything of value, directly or indirectly, for the referral of patients covered by Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs or the leasing, purchasing, ordering or arranging for or recommending the lease, purchase or order of any item, good, facility or service covered by these programs. Many states and European countries also have similar anti-kickback laws that are not necessarily limited to items or services for which payment is made by a government healthcare program. These laws are applicable to manufacturers and distributors and, therefore, may restrict how we and some of our customers market products to healthcare providers, including e-details. Any determination by a state, federal, or foreign regulatory agency that any of our practices violate any of these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties and require us to change or terminate some portions of our business and could have an adverse effect on our business. Even an unsuccessful challenge by regulatory authorities to our practices could result in adverse publicity and be costly for us to respond to. • False Claims Laws. The Federal False Claims Act imposes liability on any person or entity who, among other things, knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment by a Federal healthcare program. In addition, various states and European countries have enacted false claim laws analogous to the Federal False Claims Act, and many of these laws apply where a claim is submitted to any third-party payor and not merely a federal healthcare program. When an entity is determined to have violated the Federal False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government plus civil penalties. In recent years an increasing number of Federal False Claims Act cases have been brought against drug manufacturers and resulted in significant monetary settlements and imposition of federally supervised corporate integrity agreements in circumstances that include allegations that company-sponsored CME was unlawful off-label promotion. Any action against us for violation of these laws could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Similarly, False Claims Act actions and resulting corporate integrity agreements involving our customers may influence their willingness to continue to use our services. 43 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • Medical Professional Regulation. The practice of most healthcare professions requires licensing under applicable state law, as well as under applicable national law of most of the European countries. In addition, the laws in some states and European countries prohibit business entities from practicing medicine. If a state or other enforcement authority determines that some portion of our business violates these laws, they may seek to have us discontinue those portions or subject us to penalties or licensure requirements. Any determination that we are a healthcare provider and have acted improperly as a healthcare provider may result in liability to us. • GINA. The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA) prohibits discrimination based on genetic information in employment and in health insurance coverage. The law applies to our private portal customers, including both employers and group health plans. WebMD’s Health Risk Assessment (or HRA), HealthQuotient, is typically offered to employees as a voluntary component of their employer-sponsored wellness program. Title I of GINA can have significant implications for wellness programs offered by group health plans in that it prohibits the collection of genetic information, which includes an individual’s family medical history, prior to or in connection with enrollment or for underwriting purposes. Underwriting purposes include providing incentives or rewards for completion of an HRA that requests genetic information. Title II of GINA prohibits employment discrimination based on genetic information, as well as the request or purchase of genetic information of employees or their family members with limited exceptions, including a limited exception for voluntary wellness programs. WebMD may face challenges as a result of varying interpretations of the law by our customers and by the multiple enforcing agencies including the U.S. Departments of Health and Human Services (HHS), Labor and Treasury and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. Interpretations of the law have required us to modify the HealthQuotient product, and we could experience increases in operational costs or decreases in demand for our products. State legislation, such as recent legislation in California prohibiting any form of discrimination by businesses based on genetic information, including in housing, public accommodation, and the provision of emergency services, could have additional implications for service we provide in those states. Similar restrictions may also apply in European countries. In September 2013, the FDA issued final guidance regarding mobile medical applications. The FDA intends to regulate only those mobile applications that meet the agency’s definition of “device” and could pose a risk to patients’ safety if they fail to work as intended. The FDA intends to exercise enforcement discretion with respect to certain lower risk mobile applications that meet the device definition. Mobile applications that do not meet the device definition are beyond the FDA’s jurisdiction, and therefore, not subject to the agency’s oversight. We believe that none of our existing online services and mobile applications are subject to regulation as a medical device under applicable FDA regulations. We are required to determine whether FDA regulations would apply to any of our applications and the FDA could disagree with the determination we have made. It is also possible that products or services that we may offer in the future could subject us to such regulation or that current rules could change or be interpreted to apply to some of our existing online services or mobile applications. Complying with such regulations could be burdensome and expensive and could delay our introduction of new services or applications. We may be subject to claims brought against us as a result of content we provide Consumers access health-related information through our online services, including information regarding particular medical conditions and possible adverse reactions or side effects from medications. Physicians and other healthcare professionals use our services to access clinical reference sources, commentary from leading medical experts, medical news, and coverage of professional meetings and conferences. If our content, or content we obtain from third parties, contains inaccuracies, it is possible that physicians, consumers, employees, health plan members or others may sue us for various causes of action. Although our Websites and mobile applications contain terms and conditions, including disclaimers of liability, that are intended to reduce or eliminate our liability, the law governing the validity and enforceability of online agreements and other electronic transactions is evolving. We could be subject to claims by third parties that our online agreements with consumers and physicians that provide the terms and conditions for use of our public or private portals or mobile applications are unenforceable. A finding by a court that these agreements are invalid and that we are subject to liability could harm our business and require costly changes to our business. 44 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We have editorial procedures in place to provide quality control of the information that we publish or provide. However, we cannot assure you that our editorial and other quality control procedures will be sufficient to ensure that there are no errors or omissions in particular content. Even if potential claims do not result in liability to us, investigating and defending against these claims could be expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention away from our operations. In addition, our business is based on establishing the reputation of our portals as trustworthy and dependable sources of healthcare information. Allegations of impropriety or inaccuracy, even if unfounded, could harm our reputation and business. Government regulation of the Internet could adversely affect our business The Internet and its associated technologies are subject to government regulation. However, whether and how existing laws and regulations in various jurisdictions, including privacy and consumer protection laws, apply to the Internet is still uncertain. Our failure, or the failure of our business partners or third-party service providers, to accurately anticipate the application of these laws and regulations to our products and services and the manner in which we deliver them, or any other failure to comply with such laws and regulations, could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity and negatively affect our business. In addition, new laws and regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may be adopted with respect to the Internet and online services, including in areas such as user privacy, confidentiality, consumer protection, marketing, pricing, content, copyrights and patents, and characteristics and quality of products and services. We cannot predict how these laws or regulations will affect our business. In Europe, the respective healthcare advertising laws stipulate several restrictions on advertising of drugs and medical devices to the public. In particular, in several countries, the advertising of prescription drugs to the general public is not allowed. Thus, these European countries require access restrictions for Websites that contain such advertisements, which are only allowed to be addressed to healthcare professionals. This means these Websites of The WebMD Health Network that are addressed to physicians in specific European countries (such as the Medscape Germany or France Websites) must be accessible only to healthcare professionals by an appropriate access check. If the respective European competent authority does not acknowledge the respective Website to have appropriate access controls, the authority may require us and/or our European entity to establish stricter access controls or ultimately may take action against us and/or our European entity. Internet and mobile user privacy, personal data security and the use of consumer information to track online activities are major issues both in the United States and abroad. For example, in February 2009, the FTC published Self-Regulatory Principles to govern the tracking of consumers’ activities online in order to deliver advertising targeted to the interests of individual consumers (sometimes referred to as behavioral advertising). These principles serve as guidelines to the industry. In December 2010, following a series of workshops, the FTC issued a preliminary staff report containing a proposed framework for businesses and policymakers for online consumer privacy issues and, in March 2012, the FTC issued a final report setting forth its current views on best practices, to protect the privacy of consumers, to be implemented by companies that collect and use consumer data. Also in March 2012, the White House released a Privacy White Paper that outlined the Obama Administration’s proposal for a new American privacy framework based on a Consumer Bill of Privacy Rights and which called for the development of industry-specific voluntary, enforceable privacy codes of conduct through a collaborative multi-stakeholder process. Both the FTC and the White House called for Congress to develop baseline privacy legislation and the FTC also called on industry to accelerate the pace of self-regulation. In addition, earlier in 2013, the FTC issued a staff report regarding mobile privacy disclosures that included recommendations for privacy disclosures for mobile applications, and the California Attorney General also issued mobile application privacy guidelines. The FTC and state attorneys general continue to pay close attention to Internet privacy issues and the FTC in 2014 plans to hold a seminar focusing on privacy issues associated with “consumer generated and controlled health data,” which may be relevant to services we offer. The FTC and state attorneys general have otherwise been active in investigating and entering into consent decrees under their current unfair or deceptive trade practices authority with companies because of their online privacy and data security practices. There is a possibility of legislation, regulation and increased enforcement activities relating to privacy and behavioral advertising. For example, the FTC issued revised Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA) rules in late 2012 that broaden the scope of the regulations, and amended Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules under the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA) relating to certain forms of 45 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements telemarketing and telephone calls, including text messages, took effect in October 2013. The TCPA’s private right of action and statutory damages has made it increasingly popular for class action litigation, and litigation or liability under the TCPA could adversely affect our business. In addition, some bills have been introduced in Congress, and more are expected, that, if passed, could impose substantial new regulations on online behavioral advertising activities. In addition, changes in industry practice (whether on their own or when combined with regulatory changes) could adversely impact our ability to deliver advertisements based on online behavior. For example, it is possible that at some point in the future, it will be a common Internet practice for Websites to honor “Do Not Track” settings in Internet browsers that are turned on by default. Whether through industry practice or in combination with government regulation, such a development could limit our ability to serve advertisements to consumers based on online behavior on third party sites or on our sites, which could adversely affect our revenue. In Europe, Directive 2009/136/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council requires the user’s full information and consent prior to the installation and use of any so-called “cookie” on a user’s computer. This Directive has been implemented differently, if at all, in member states of the European Union and national requirements to remain compliant with the respective law may vary. Nevertheless, the provisions of this directive, whether effectively implemented in national laws, are now applicable in all the member states of the European Union and enforcement actions are now being considered by local data protection authorities. In addition, in January 2012, the European Commission published a draft General Data Protection Regulation on data protection for the revision of the currently applicable data protection framework. The potential resulting new framework sets out additional requirements for users’ consent for offline and online marketing. If enacted, this instrument will further strengthen the already very densely regulated area of Internet privacy in Europe. In addition, this revised European legislation, if adopted, would increase the likelihood of applicability of European law to entities established outside the European Union but processing data of European data subjects. We have privacy policies posted on our Websites that we believe comply with existing applicable laws requiring notice to users about our information collection, use and disclosure practices. We also notify users about our information collection, use and disclosure practices relating to data we receive through offline means such as paper health risk assessments. Moreover, we take steps to reasonably protect certain sensitive personal information we hold. We cannot assure you that the privacy policies and other statements we provide to users of our products and services, or our practices, will be found sufficient to protect us from liability or adverse publicity in this area. A determination by a state or federal agency or court, or European data protection authority or competent court, that any of our practices do not meet applicable standards, or the implementation of new standards or requirements, could adversely affect our business. Failure to comply with laws relating to privacy and security of personal information, including personal health information, could result in liability to us and concerns about privacy-related issues could damage our reputation and our business Privacy and security of personal information stored or transmitted electronically, including personal health information, is a major issue in the United States and abroad. While we strive to comply with all applicable privacy and security laws and regulations, as well as our own posted privacy policies, legal standards for privacy including, but not limited to, “unfairness” and “deception” as enforced by the FTC and state attorneys general continue to evolve and any failure or perceived failure to comply may result in proceedings or actions against us by government entities or others, or could cause us to lose users and customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. There has been an increase in the number of private privacy-related lawsuits filed against companies recently. In addition, we are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation in the area of privacy of personal information, including personal health information, could be enacted and what effect that could have on our operations and business. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded and even if we are in compliance with applicable laws, could damage our reputation and harm our business. The Privacy Standards and Security Standards under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (or HIPAA), as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) Act of 2009, establish a set of national privacy and security standards for the protection of individually identifiable health information by health plans, healthcare clearinghouses and healthcare providers 46 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements (referred to as “covered entities”) and their “business associates,” which are persons or entities that perform certain services for, or on behalf of, a covered entity that involve the use or disclosure of protected health information. Certain portions of our business, such as those managing employee or plan member health information for employers or health plans, are subject to HIPAA as business associates of covered entities. In addition to imposing privacy and security requirements, HIPAA also creates obligations for us to report any unauthorized use or disclosure of protected health information, known as a breach, to our covered entity customers. The 2013 final HITECH rule modifies the breach reporting standard in a manner that will likely make more data security incidents qualify as reportable breaches. In addition, HITECH and its implementing regulations impose similar data breach notification requirements on vendors of personal health records that require us to notify affected individuals and the FTC in the event of a data breach involving the unsecured personal information of users of our public portal services. Violations of HIPAA may result in civil and criminal penalties and could damage our reputation and harm our business. HITECH increased civil penalty amounts for violations of HIPAA and significantly strengthens enforcement by requiring the HHS to conduct periodic audits to confirm compliance and authorizing state attorneys general to bring civil actions seeking either injunctions or damages in response to violations of HIPAA Privacy Standards and Security Standards that threaten the privacy of state residents. We cannot assure you that we will adequately address the risks created by these amended HIPAA Privacy Standards and Security Standards. In addition, we are unable to predict what changes to these Standards might be made in the future or how those changes, or other changes in applicable laws and regulations, could affect our business. In Europe, the current national implementations of the existing general data protection Directive 95/46/EC and of the e-Privacy Directive 2002/58/EC provide for criminal and administrative sanctions in case of violations, even though criminal sanctions are very rarely imposed. For example, France and Germany provide for administrative fines of up to 300,000 Euros (approximately 360,000 USD) in case of illegal collection or processing of personal identifiable information. Under the new draft General Data Protection Regulation on data protection proposed by the European Commission in January 2012, as modified by the European Parliament in October 2013, fines of up to 100,000,000 Euros (approximately 120,000,000 USD) or up to 5% of the global turnover of the infringer could be imposed. Failure to maintain CME accreditation could adversely affect Medscape, LLC’s ability to provide online CME offerings Medscape, LLC’s continuing medical education (or CME) activities are planned and implemented in accordance with the current Essential Areas and Elements and the Policies of the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (or ACCME), which oversees providers of CME credit, and other applicable accreditation standards. ACCME’s standards for commercial support of CME are intended to assure, among other things, that CME activities of ACCME-accredited providers, such as Medscape, LLC, are independent of “commercial interests,” which are defined as entities that produce, market, re-sell or distribute healthcare goods and services, excluding certain organizations. “Commercial interests,” and entities owned or controlled by “commercial interests,” are ineligible for accreditation by the ACCME. From time to time, the ACCME revises its standards for commercial support of CME. As a result of certain past ACCME revisions, we adjusted our corporate structure and made changes to our management and operations intended to allow Medscape, LLC to provide CME activities that are developed independently from programs developed by its sister companies, which may not be independent of “commercial interests.” We believe that these changes allow Medscape, LLC to satisfy the applicable standards. Medscape, LLC’s current ACCME accreditation expires in 2016. In order for Medscape, LLC to renew its accreditation, it will be required to demonstrate to the ACCME that it continues to meet ACCME requirements. If Medscape, LLC fails to maintain its status as an accredited ACCME provider (whether at the time of such renewal or at an earlier time as a result of a failure to comply with existing or additional ACCME standards), it will not be permitted to accredit CME activities for physicians and other healthcare professionals. Instead, Medscape, LLC would be required to use third parties to provide such CME-related services. That, in turn, could discourage potential supporters from engaging Medscape, LLC to develop CME or education-related activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 47 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CME regulations also apply in other countries. For example, under German law, certain CME programs must be approved by the State Medical Chamber. Additionally, German CME-related services must be free of commercial/business interests and the provider of CME services must be compliant with German laws and regulations. In France, a similar new regulatory framework that restricts the organization of CME activities has been completed. These or similar restrictions in other countries may restrict our ability to carry out activities related to CME programs and/or refer to drugs or medical devices in such CME programs. Moreover, if we are not able to demonstrate compliance with these regulations, applicable approvals may not be obtained from governmental authorities, which may impact our ability to provide CME-related services and which could have an adverse effect on our business. Government regulation and industry initiatives could adversely affect the volume of sponsored online CME programs implemented through our Websites or require changes to how Medscape, LLC offers CME CME activities may be subject to government oversight or regulation by Congress, the FDA, HHS, and state regulatory agencies. Medscape, LLC and/or the sponsors of the CME activities that Medscape, LLC accredits may be subject to enforcement actions if any of these CME activities are deemed improperly promotional, potentially leading to the termination of sponsorships. Medscape, LLC and/or the sponsors of the CME activities that Medscape, LLC accredits also could be affected by industry initiatives regarding funding for CME. During the past several years, educational activities, including CME, directed at physicians have been subject to increased governmental scrutiny to ensure that sponsors do not influence or control the content of the activities. The Department of Justice continues to examine CME sponsorship by manufacturers. In response, pharmaceutical and medical device companies have developed and implemented internal controls and procedures that promote adherence to applicable regulations and requirements. In implementing these controls and procedures, supporters of CME may interpret the regulations and requirements differently and may implement varying procedures or requirements. These controls and procedures: • may discourage pharmaceutical companies from providing grants for independent educational activities; • may slow their internal approval for such grants; • may reduce the volume of sponsored educational programs that Medscape, LLC produces to levels that are lower than in the past, thereby reducing revenue; and • may require Medscape, LLC to make changes to how it offers or provides educational programs, including CME. In June 2011, the American Medical Association’s House of Delegates approved a report entitled “Financial Relationships with Industry in Continuing Medical Education” that largely adopts the CME ethical principles already espoused by other industry and accreditation organizations, including ACCME, PhRMA, and AdvaMed. Although the report recognizes that industry support of CME may help make CME more accessible and affordable, the report proposes that CME should, when possible, be provided without commercial support and without the participation of individuals who have financial interest in the educational subject matter. It is possible that the recommendations contained in this report, or other voluntary industry guidelines, could negatively influence the availability of commercial support for Medscape CME programs and/or physician participation in Medscape CME programs funded by commercial support. Future changes to laws, regulations or accreditation standards, or to the internal compliance programs of supporters or potential supporters, may further discourage, significantly limit, or prohibit supporters or potential supporters from engaging in educational activities with Medscape, LLC, or may require Medscape, LLC to make further changes in the way it offers or provides educational activities. Failure to comply with applicable anti-corruption laws could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences The United States and other countries have adopted anti-corruption laws that generally prohibit directly or indirectly giving, offering or promising inducements to public officials to elicit an improper commercial advantage. Under applicable U.S., German, and most European law, this prohibition has been interpreted to apply 48 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements to doctors and other medical professionals who work in state-run hospitals and state-run healthcare systems. Some of these laws also prohibit directly or indirectly giving, offering or promising (and, in some cases, accepting or soliciting) inducements to (or from) private parties to elicit (or grant) an improper commercial advantage. In recent years, the U.S. Government has brought enforcement actions that led to significant monetary penalties against several companies operating in the global healthcare industry for violations of anti-corruption laws resulting from illegal payments made to non-U.S. medical professionals. As our business expands outside the United States, we (and others acting on our behalf) increasingly interact with non-U.S. doctors and other medical professionals, at least some of whom work in state-run hospitals or healthcare systems. Such interactions inherently increase the risk of violating applicable anti-corruption laws. While we believe that we have appropriate compliance policies and procedures in place to mitigate such risk, our personnel and others acting on our behalf could engage in conduct that violates such laws, for which we could be held responsible. Under such circumstances, we could be subject to civil and/or criminal penalties and other consequences that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our brand and reputation, our sales activities and the price of our Common Stock and other securities could be adversely affected if we were to become the target of any resulting negative publicity. Other Risks Applicable to Our Company and to Ownership of Our Securities Provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could adversely affect the value of our Common Stock Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as Delaware corporate law, contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control or changes in our management and board of directors that holders of our Common Stock might consider favorable and may prevent them from receiving a takeover premium for their shares. These provisions include, for example, our classified board structure and the authorization of our board of directors to issue up to 50 million shares of preferred stock without a stockholder vote. In addition, our Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that stockholders may not act by written consent and may not call special meetings. These provisions apply even if an offer to purchase our company may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our Common Stock could decline. If certain transactions occur with respect to our capital stock, limitations may be imposed on our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits to reduce our income taxes WebMD has substantial accumulated net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards and tax credits available to offset taxable income in future tax periods. If certain transactions occur with respect to WebMD’s capital stock (including issuances, redemptions, recapitalizations, exercises of options, conversions of convertible debt, purchases or sales by 5%-or-greater shareholders and similar transactions) that result in a cumulative change of more than 50% of the ownership of capital stock over a three-year period (as determined under rules prescribed by Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and applicable Treasury regulations), an annual limitation would be imposed with respect to the ability to utilize WebMD’s NOL carryforwards and federal tax credits that existed at the time of the ownership change. In November 2008, HLTH repurchased shares of its Common Stock in a tender offer. The tender offer resulted in a cumulative change of more than 50% of the ownership of HLTH’s capital, as determined under rules prescribed by Section 382 of the Code and applicable Treasury regulations. As a result of this ownership change, there is an annual limitation imposed on the amount of the NOL carryforwards and federal tax credits existing at the time of the ownership change that we may use to offset income in each tax year following the ownership change. On April 3, 2012, WebMD completed a tender offer through which we repurchased 5,769,230 shares of WebMD Common Stock at a price of $26.00 per share (the “2012 Tender Offer”). On September 10, 2013, WebMD completed a tender offer through which we repurchased 5,000,000 shares of WebMD Common Stock at 49 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements a price of $34.00 per share (the “2013 Tender Offer”). Completion of the 2012 Tender Offer and the 2013 Tender Offer may increase the possibility of another ownership change and corresponding annual limitation, which could decrease the existing annual limitation and would apply to all NOL carryforwards and tax credits generated prior to this potential new ownership change. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property and proprietary rights Our intellectual property and proprietary rights are important to our businesses. The steps that we take to protect our intellectual property, proprietary information and trade secrets may prove to be inadequate and, whether or not adequate, may be expensive. We rely on a combination of trade secret, patent and other intellectual property laws and confidentiality procedures and non-disclosure contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that we will be able to detect potential or actual misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property, proprietary information or trade secrets. Even if we detect misappropriation or infringement by a third party, we cannot assure you that we will be able to enforce our rights at a reasonable cost, or at all. In addition, our rights to intellectual property, proprietary information and trade secrets may not prevent independent third-party development and commercialization of competing products or services. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from providing certain services, which may harm our business We have been, and may continue to be, subject to claims that we are misappropriating or infringing intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others. These claims, even if not meritorious, may be expensive to defend and divert management’s attention from our operations. If we become liable to third parties for infringing these rights, we could be required to pay a substantial damage award and to develop non-infringing technology, obtain a license or cease selling the products or services that use or contain the infringing intellectual property. We may be unable to develop non-infringing products or services or obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may also be required to indemnify our customers if they become subject to third-party claims relating to intellectual property that we license or otherwise provide to them, which could be costly. Acquisitions, business combinations and other transactions may be difficult to complete and, if completed, may have negative consequences for our business and our security holders WebMD has been built, in part, through acquisitions. We intend to continue to seek to acquire or to engage in business combinations with companies engaged in complementary businesses. In addition, we may enter into joint ventures, strategic alliances or similar arrangements with third parties. These transactions may result in changes in the nature and scope of our operations and changes in our financial condition. Our success in completing these types of transactions will depend on, among other things, our ability to locate suitable candidates and negotiate mutually acceptable terms with them, and to obtain adequate financing. Significant competition for these opportunities exists, which may increase the cost of and decrease the opportunities for these types of transactions. Financing for these transactions may come from several sources, including: • cash and cash equivalents on hand and marketable securities; • proceeds from the incurrence of indebtedness; and • proceeds from the issuance of common stock, preferred stock, convertible debt or of other securities. The issuance of additional equity or debt securities could: • cause substantial dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders at the time of the issuance; • cause substantial dilution of our earnings per share; • subject us to the risks associated with increased leverage, including a reduction in our ability to obtain financing or an increase in the cost of any financing we obtain; 50 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • subject us to restrictive covenants that could limit our flexibility in conducting future business activities; and • adversely affect the prevailing market price for our outstanding securities. We do not intend to seek security holder approval for any such acquisition or security issuance unless required by applicable law, regulation or the terms of then-existing securities. Our business will suffer if we fail to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies or to assess the risks in particular transactions We have in the past acquired, and may in the future acquire, businesses, technologies, services, product lines and other assets. The successful integration of the acquired businesses and assets into our operations, on a cost-effective basis, can be critical to our future performance. The amount and timing of the expected benefits of any acquisition, including potential synergies between our company and the acquired business, are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those relating to: • our ability to maintain relationships with the customers of the acquired business; • our ability to retain or replace key personnel of the acquired business; • potential conflicts in sponsor or advertising relationships or in relationships with strategic partners; • our ability to coordinate organizations that are geographically diverse and may have different business cultures; and • compliance with regulatory requirements. We cannot guarantee that any acquired businesses will be successfully integrated with our operations in a timely or cost-effective manner, or at all. Failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses or to achieve anticipated operating synergies, revenue enhancements or cost savings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although our management attempts to evaluate the risks inherent in each transaction and to value acquisition candidates appropriately, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain all such risks or that acquired businesses and assets will perform as we expect or enhance the value of our company as a whole. In addition, acquired companies or businesses may have larger than expected liabilities that are not covered by the indemnification, if any, that we are able to obtain from the sellers. We may not be able to raise additional funds when needed for our business or to exploit opportunities Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including the success of our service offerings, market developments, and repurchases of our Common Stock. We may need to raise additional funds to support expansion, develop new or enhanced applications and services, respond to competitive pressures, acquire complementary businesses or technologies or take advantage of unanticipated opportunities. If required, we may raise such additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing, strategic relationships or other arrangements. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all, or that such financing will not be dilutive to our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 