Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the risks described below and in our subsequent SEC reports, there are additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial that may also materially, adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. If any of the risks and uncertainties set forth below actually materialize, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially adversely affected, the trading price of our common stock could decline and a stockholder could lose all or part of his or her investment. The risks and uncertainties set forth below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. Risks Related to our Financial Condition We have a history of losses and negative cash flow, anticipate future losses and negative cash flow, and cannot provide assurances that we will achieve profitability. We have incurred significant losses since we commenced operations. As of December 31, 2013, we had accumulated losses of $210.3 million since our inception, and had net losses of approximately $11.7 million, $4.9 million, and $3.8 million during the last three years, respectively. Our losses to date have resulted principally from research and development costs related to the development of our product candidates and general and administrative costs related to operations. Currently our development efforts are primarily focused on one product candidate, SparVax®. At December 31, 2013, we had cash on hand of approximately $10.5 million. We expect to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future as a result of increases in our research and development costs, including costs associated with conducting preclinical testing, clinical trials and regulatory compliance activities. If we continue to incur losses and are not able to raise adequate funds to cover those losses, we may be required to curtail significantly our development and commercialization activities. This would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Our likelihood for achieving profitability will depend on numerous factors, including success in: •obtaining and enforcing a ruling from the Delaware Court of Chancery that provides for a meaningful remedy in our on-going litigation with SIGA; •the timing, amount and profitability of sales of ArestvyrTM (including the timing of SIGA’s recognition of revenue related thereto) if any final ruling from the Delaware Court of Chancery provides as a remedy for a cash flow to us related to sales or profits of ArestvyrTM; •developing our existing products and developing and testing new product candidates; •continuing to receive government funding and identifying new government funding opportunities; •receiving regulatory approvals; •carrying out our intellectual property strategy; •establishing our competitive position; •pursuing third-party collaborations; 22 •acquiring or in-licensing products; and •manufacturing and marketing products. Many of these factors will depend on circumstances beyond our control. We cannot guarantee that we will achieve sufficient revenues for profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we cannot guarantee that we can sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate, or if operating expenses exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly, then our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will be materially and adversely affected. Because our strategy includes potential acquisitions of other businesses, acquisition expenses and any cash used to make these acquisitions will reduce our available cash. Under the terms of our agreements with Avecia, we are required to pay Avecia (now a subsidiary of Fujifilm) $5 million within 90 days of entering into a multi-year funded development contract that was to be issued by BARDA under solicitation number RFP-BARDA-08-15 (or any substitution or replacement thereof) for the further development of SparVax®. BARDA cancelled RFP-BARDA-08-15 in December 2009. We have received funds from BARDA and other U.S. government agencies under various development agreements. Any development contract deemed to be a substitute or replacement of RFP-BARDA-08-15 could trigger our obligation to make the $5 million payment. Global economic uncertainty continues to make capital markets more volatile and is threatening to once again tighten the credit markets. As a result, there can be no assurances that we would be successful in obtaining sufficient financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our requirements for additional capital may be substantial and will be dependent on many factors, including the success of our research and development efforts, our ability to commercialize and market products, our ability to successfully pursue our licensing and collaboration strategy, the receipt of continued government funding, competing technological and marketing developments, costs associated with the protection of our intellectual property and any future change in our business strategy. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of securities, the issuance of those securities or shares underlying such securities would result in dilution that could be substantial to our stockholders. In addition, if we incur additional debt financing, a substantial portion of our operating cash flow may be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness, thus limiting funds available for our business activities. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to curtail significantly our development and commercialization activities. This would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. As a result of the ruling of the Delaware Supreme Court, we no longer have a financial interest in ArestvyrTM and there can be no assurance that the Delaware Chancery Court will issue a remedy that provides us with a financial interest in that product or another remedy. In its May 2013 decision, the Delaware Supreme Court reversed the remedy ordered by the Delaware Court of Chancery and remanded the issue of a remedy back to the trial court for reconsideration in light of the Delaware Supreme Court’s opinion. There can be no assurance that the Delaware Court of Chancery Court will issue a remedy that provides us with a financial interest in ArestvyrTM and related products, that SIGA will not appeal any subsequent decision by the Delaware Court of Chancery, or that SIGA will not be successful in any subsequent appeal. Even if the Delaware Court of Chancery does provide us a remedy with a financial interest in ArestvyrTM, we may never receive any proceeds from SIGA’s future sales of that product. In addition to the risks that ordinarily accompany the development and commercialization of biodefense products, including with respect to government contracting activities (including protests filed by third parties), competition (which with respect to ArestvyrTM includes potential competing products being developed by Chimerix, Inc.), FDA and other regulatory approval and commercialization efforts, which are described elsewhere in our risk factors, any interest we may have in future sales of SIGA’s product ArestvyrTM and related products is subject to additional risks. 23 In particular, SIGA’s ability to deliver product to the SNS (and potential foreign government purchasers), and the timing and profitability thereof (including the timing of SIGA’s recognition of revenue related thereto), are subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties (certain of which are outlined in SIGA’s filings with the SEC) as to which we have limited knowledge and no ability to control, mitigate or fully evaluate. We have no first-hand knowledge of, and SIGA has not publicly disclosed, any information related to the potential margins or profitability of ArestvyrTM and related products. Even if the Delaware Chancery Court re-instates its prior remedy or another remedy granting us a financial interest in ArestvyrTM, the potential value of any damages that may be awarded to us is subject to several variables, many of which are controlled by SIGA, and uncertainties, including the timing of any final decision by the courts, which preclude the current calculation of a predictable value of the SIGA litigation. In its May 31, 2012 judgment, the Delaware Chancery Court awarded us the right to receive 50% of certain profits related to the sale of ArestvyrTM and related products for a specified period of time once SIGA retained the first $40 million in profits. However, as noted in the prior risk factor, although the Delaware Supreme Court affirmed in May 2013 that SIGA breached contractual obligations to us, its remand of the issue of the remedy back to the Delaware Chancery Court for reconsideration has effectively deprived us of any current financial interest on ArestvyrTM and related products. We cannot predict whether the Delaware Chancery Court will re-instate its prior remedy or order another remedy. We have taken the position in documents submitted to the courts, that our damages may be as high as $1 billion. SIGA has taken the position, in documents that it has submitted to the courts, that it owes us no or nominal damages. In addition, SIGA has taken post-judgment positions with respect to ArestvyrTM as to timing and costs (positions we dispute), which we expect SIGA may continue to take in the future, thus reducing or deferring SIGA's revenues from ArestvyrTM and related products and, correspondingly, potentially reducing or delaying any damages that would be owed to us. We intend to continue to vigorously pursue in court our position that, as a result of our successful breach of contract case against SIGA, we deserve significant damages in our award from the Delaware Chancery Court. We can provide no assurance that we will succeed in our litigation strategy or, as stated above, that the Delaware Chancery Court will re-instate its prior remedy or provide any remedy at all. Even if we are awarded a remedy by the court, we are unable to control or predict the timing of sales of or whether or when SIGA will recognize any profits with respect to ArestvyrTM or related products. It is possible that SIGA could discontinue development, production or sales of ArestvyrTM and any related products at any time such that we would not collect any damages. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs) may be limited. We have incurred substantial losses during our history. If the Delaware Court of Chancery does not provide us with a remedy in our on-going litigation with SIGA that requires SIGA to make a significant lump sum payment to us or on-going payments related to sales or profits of Arestvyr™ and related products (and any such remedy is not affirmed on appeal), we are highly unlikely to be profitable for the foreseeable future and therefore, will not generate future taxable income that we can use our net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, to offset. As of December 31, 2013, we had federal NOLs of $144 million. The $144 million in NOLs will begin to expire in various years between 2022 and 2033, if not limited by triggering events prior to such time. Under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code changes in our ownership, in certain circumstances, will limit the amount of NOLs that can be utilized annually in the future to offset taxable income. In particular, section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code imposes limitations on a company’s ability to use NOLs upon certain changes in such ownership. If we are limited in our ability to use our NOLs in future years in which we have taxable income, we will pay more taxes than if we were able to utilize our NOLs fully. For example, as a result of a previous change in stock ownership, the annual utilization of the NOL carryforwards generated in tax years prior to 2007 may be subject to limitation. We have not completed an analysis under Section 382 to determine what, if any, impact any prior ownership change has had on our ability to utilize our NOLs. Until such analysis is completed, we cannot be sure that the full amount of the existing NOLs will be available to us, even if we do generate taxable income before their expiration. In addition, we may experience ownership changes in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership that could result in further limitations being placed on our ability to utilize our NOLs. 24 Risks Related to Product Development and Commercialization We have not commercialized any products or recognized any revenues from sales. SparVax® has been placed on clinical hold for a second time. All of our product candidates are still under development, and there can be no assurance of successful commercialization of any of our products. We have not commercialized any product candidates or recognized any revenues from product sales. In general, our research and development programs are in development stages. There can be no assurances that one or more of our future product candidates will not fail to meet safety and efficacy standards in human testing, even if those product candidates are found to be effective in animal studies. To develop and commercialize biodefense treatment and prophylactic product candidates, we must provide the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities with human clinical and non-clinical animal data that demonstrate adequate safety and effectiveness. To generate these data, we will have to subject our product candidates to significant additional research and development efforts, including extensive non-clinical studies and clinical testing. We cannot be sure that our approach to drug discovery will be effective or will result in the development of any drug. Currently our development efforts are primarily focused on one product candidate, SparVax®. Even if our product candidates are successful when tested in animals, such success would not be a guarantee of the safety or effectiveness of such product candidates in humans. In August 2012, we received notification from the FDA that our SparVax® rPA anthrax vaccine program was placed on clinical hold prior to initiating any patient dosing in a planned Phase 2 clinical trial. The FDA requested additional stability data and information related to the stability indicating assays, which we supplied, and the FDA lifted the clinical hold in May 2013. In December 2013 we received notification from the FDA that our SparVax® rPA anthrax vaccine program was placed on clinical hold for a second time. Specifically the FDA observed a statistically significant downward trend in potency in the engineering lot of FDP manufactured in early 2012 and a similar but not statistically significant trend in the cGMP lot of SparVax® FDP produced four months later that we had intended to use in a planned Phase 2 clinical trial. PharmAthene recently completed the in-life portion of an ongoing non-clinical rabbit study which showed SparVax® to be beneficial in preventing anthrax infection in animals exposed to anthrax spores. This study was designed to evaluate the efficacy of SparVax® compared to BioThrax® in animals exposed to a lethal dose of anthrax. The study used a cGMP lot of SparVax® FDP that was 22 months old at the initial dose. The dose was repeated 28 days later using the same lot. Rabbits were vaccinated with an estimated human equivalent dose of each vaccine and the data showed 100% survival for both products. Additional data from future SparVax® clinical trials and non-clinical animal studies will be required to establish efficacy in humans. To move forward with clinical development of SparVax® and to be able to respond to the FDA’s concerns, the FDA has requested that we produce a new cGMP lot of FDP, provide the lot release data to the FDA, and provide stability data to the FDA on the BDS we use to produce the final drug product lot. The FDA has also requested that we continue to collect stability data on the previously manufactured engineering and cGMP lots. We cannot be certain that we will be able to produce a cGMP lot of SparVax® FDP that the FDA will find acceptable and it is unclear at this point when or if we will be able to commence the planned Phase 2 human clinical trial of SparVax®. Consequently, revenues we recognize in future periods under our contract with BARDA for the development of SparVax® will not include those related to this clinical trial until such time, if ever, as we are able to move forward with the clinical trial, and overall SparVax® revenues will be substantially less than they otherwise would have been. Further, we will need consent and additional funding from BARDA to produce a new cGMP lot of SparVax® and to conduct the Phase 2 clinical trial, and it is unclear at this time whether BARDA will provide such funding. The clinical hold will delay the commercialization, if any, of SparVax®, and we cannot offer any assurance that we will ever be able to continue or complete product development for SparVax®. Research and development efforts are time-consuming and subject to delays. Even if we initially receive positive early-stage preclinical or clinical results, such results may not be indicative of results that could be anticipated in the later stages of drug development. Delays in obtaining results in our non-clinical studies and clinical testing can occur for a variety of reasons, such as slower than anticipated enrollment by volunteers in the trials, adverse events related to the products, failure to comply with Good Clinical Practices, unforeseen safety issues, unsatisfactory results in trials, perceived defects in the design of clinical trials, changes in regulatory policy as well as for reasons detailed in the section entitled “— Necessary reliance on the Animal Rule in conducting trials is time-consuming and expensive.” Any delay or adverse clinical event arising during any of our clinical trials could force us to conduct additional clinical trials in order to obtain approval from the FDA and other regulatory bodies. Our development costs will increase substantially if we experience material delays in any clinical trials or if we need to conduct more or larger trials than planned. 25 If delays are significant, or if any of our product candidates do not prove to be safe, pure, and potent (including efficacy) or do not receive required regulatory approvals, we may have to abandon the product candidate altogether and will be unable to recognize revenues from the sale of that product. In addition, our collaborative partners may not be able to conduct clinical testing or obtain necessary approvals from the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any product candidates jointly developed by us and our partners. If we fail to obtain required governmental approvals, we and our collaborative partners will experience delays in, or be precluded from, marketing products developed through them or, as applicable, their research. If we cannot maintain successful licensing arrangements and collaborations, enter into new licensing arrangements and collaborations, or effectively accomplish strategic acquisitions, our ability to develop and commercialize a diverse product portfolio could be limited and our ability to compete may be harmed. A key component of our business strategy is the in-licensing of compounds and products developed by other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies or academic research laboratories. In addition, we have entered into licensing and research and development agreements with a number of other parties and collaborators. There can be no assurances that the research and development conducted pursuant to these agreements will result in revenue generating product candidates. If our suppliers, vendors, licensors, or other collaboration partners experience financial difficulties as a result of the weak economy, change in strategic direction (like the decision of our main CRO vendor on our rBChE program to cease its research and development operations, which caused us to locate a replacement vendor on an expedited basis), or if they are acquired as part of the current wave of consolidations in the pharmaceutical industry (such as, for example, with the acquisitions of Medarex by BMS and Diosynth Biotechnologies, Inc.’s parent company by Merck & Co., or Merck, Inc. in 2009 and of an Avecia subsidiary by Merck in 2010 and the subsequent acquisition of these two entities by Fujifilm in 2011), their priorities or our working relationship with them might change. As a result, they might shift resources away from the research, development and/or manufacturing efforts intended to benefit our products, which could lead to significant delays in our development programs and potential future sales. Our current licensing, research and development, and supply agreements may expire and may not be renewable or could be terminated if we do not meet our obligations. If we are not able to identify new licensing opportunities or enter into other licensing arrangements on acceptable terms, we may be unable to develop a diverse portfolio of products.. Necessary reliance on the Animal Rule in conducting trials is time-consuming and expensive. To obtain FDA approval for our biological warfare defense products under current FDA regulations, we are required to utilize animal model studies for efficacy and provide animal and human safety data under the Animal Rule. For many of the biological and chemical threats, animal models are not yet available, and as such we are developing, or will have to develop, appropriate animal models, which is a time-consuming and expensive research effort. Further, we may not be able to sufficiently demonstrate the animal correlation to the satisfaction of the FDA, as these corollaries are difficult to establish and are often unclear. The FDA may decide that our data are insufficient for approval and require additional non-clinical, clinical or other studies, refuse to approve our products, or place restrictions on our ability to commercialize those products. Further, other countries have not, at this time, established criteria for review and approval of these types of products outside their normal review process, i.e., there is no Animal Rule equivalent, and consequently there can be no assurance that we will be able to make a submission for marketing approval in foreign countries based on such animal data. Additionally, few facilities in the United States and internationally have the capability to test animals with anthrax, nerve agents, or other lethal biotoxins or chemical agents or otherwise assist us in qualifying the requisite animal models. We have to compete with other biodefense companies for access to this limited pool of highly specialized resources. We therefore may not be able to secure contracts to conduct the testing in a predictable timeframe or at all. 26 Even if we succeed in commercializing our product candidates, they may not become profitable and manufacturing problems or side effects discovered at later stages can further increase costs of commercialization. We cannot assure you that any drugs resulting from our research and development efforts will become commercially available. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing our product candidates, they may never generate sufficient or sustainable revenues to enable us to be profitable. Even if effective, a product that reaches market may be subject to additional clinical trials, changes to or re-approvals of our manufacturing facilities or a change in labeling if we or others identify side effects or manufacturing problems after a product is on the market. This could harm sales of the affected products and could increase the cost and expenses of commercializing and marketing them. It could also lead to the suspension or revocation of regulatory approval for the products. We and our CMOs will also be required to comply with the applicable FDA cGMP regulations. These regulations include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturing facilities are subject to inspection by the FDA. These facilities must be approved to supply licensed products to the commercial marketplace. We and our contract manufacturers may not be able to comply with the applicable cGMP requirements and other FDA regulatory requirements. Should we or our contract manufacturers fail to comply, we could be subject to fines or other sanctions or could be precluded from marketing our products. We may become subject to product liability claims, which could reduce demand for our product candidates or result in damages that exceed our insurance coverage. We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability suits in connection with our product candidates being tested in clinical trials or sold commercially. We may become subject to a product liability suit if any product we develop causes injury, or if treated individuals subsequently become infected or suffer adverse effects from our products. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in decreased demand for a product, injury to our reputation, withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers, and loss of revenues. In addition, if a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and any adverse determination may result in liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage. Although our anthrax countermeasures are covered under the general immunity provisions of the U.S. Public Readiness and Emergency Preparedness Act, or the Public Readiness Act, there can be no assurance that the U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services will make other declarations in the future that cover any of our other product candidates or that the U.S. Congress will not act in the future to reduce coverage under the Public Readiness Act or to repeal it altogether. For further discussion of that act, see “— Legislation limiting or restricting liability for medical products used to fight bioterrorism is new, and it cannot be certain that any such protection will apply to our products or if applied what the scope of any such coverage will be.” Additionally, we are considering applying for indemnification under the U.S. Support Anti-terrorism by Fostering Effective Technologies (SAFETY) Act of 2002 which preempts and modifies tort laws so as to limit the claims and damages potentially faced by companies who provide certain “qualified” anti-terrorism products. However, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain or maintain coverage under the SAFETY Act or adequate insurance coverage on acceptable terms, if at all. 27 If we cannot effectively accomplish strategic acquisitions or business combinations, generally, our ability to develop and commercialize a diverse product portfolio could be limited and our ability to compete may be harmed. We may pursue strategic acquisitions and business combinations to further development and commercialization efforts, which could result in our incurring significant out of pocket costs as well as expending management time and those of other employees. To achieve the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, there must be an integration of the two companies’ businesses, technologies and employees in an efficient and effective manner. The successful combination of companies in a rapidly changing biodefense industry may be more difficult to accomplish than in other industries. The combination of two companies requires, among other things, integration of the companies’ respective technologies and research and development efforts. We cannot assure you that any integration will be accomplished smoothly or successfully. The difficulties of integration are increased by the need to coordinate geographically separated organizations and address possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies. The integration of certain operations will require the dedication of management resources that may temporarily distract attention from the day-to-day operations of the combined companies. The business of the combined companies may also be disrupted by employee retention uncertainty and lack of focus during integration. The inability of management to integrate successfully the operations of the two companies, in particular, to integrate and retain key scientific personnel, or the inability to integrate successfully two technology platforms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Dependence on U.S. Government Contracts All of our immediately foreseeable future revenues are contingent upon grants and contracts from the U.S. government and we may not achieve sufficient revenues from these agreements to attain profitability. For the foreseeable future, we believe our main customer will be the U.S. government. Substantially all of our revenues to date have been derived from grants and U.S. government contracts. There can be no assurances that existing U.S. government contracts will be continued, renewed or that we can enter into new contracts or receive new grants to supply the United States or other governments with our products. The process of obtaining government contracts is lengthy and uncertain. For example, due to DoD budget constraints and concerns about potential duration of protection with the route of Protexia® administration, the DoD did not extend our September 2006 contract for Protexia®, allowing the contract to expire on December 31, 2010. As a result of DoD’s decision not to continue funding Protexia® development, we closed down our Protexia®-related operations. We incurred wind-down costs in the fourth quarter of 2010 and approximately $0.5 million in 2011, for which we did not get reimbursed by the government. We also wrote down the net book value of our Protexia® -related assets recognizing approximately $4.6 million of impairment charges for the year ended December 31, 2010. If the U.S. government makes significant contract awards for the supply to the SNS to our competitors, rather than to us, our business may be harmed and we may ultimately be unable to supply that particular treatment or product to foreign governments or other third parties. Further, changes in U.S. government budgets and agendas, funding strategies, cost overruns in our programs, or advances by our competitors, may result in changes in the timing of funding for, a decreased and de-prioritized emphasis on, or termination of, U.S. government contracts that support the development and/or procurement of the biodefense products we are developing. For example, while RFP-BARDA-08-15 for an rPA-based anthrax vaccine for the SNS initially indicated that the U.S. government would make an award by September 26, 2008, the award was delayed multiple times and ultimately canceled in December 2009. Funding is subject to U.S. Congressional appropriations, which are generally made on an annual basis even for multi-year contracts. More generally, due to the ongoing economic uncertainty, the U.S. government may reduce or delay spending in the biodefense field or eliminate funding of certain programs altogether, which could decrease the likelihood of future government contract awards or that the government would procure products from us. Future funding levels for two of our key government customers, BARDA and DoD, for the advanced development and procurement of MCMs are uncertain, and may be subject to budget cuts as the U.S. Congress and the President look to reduce the nation’s budget deficit. The Pandemic and All- Hazards Preparedness Reauthorization Act, or PAHPRA, signed into law in March 2013, authorized $2.8 billion in funding for the SRF for fiscal years 2014-2018. These funds are for the procurement of MCMs. PAHPRA also authorized $415 million in funding to BARDA for advanced development activities. However, actual funding for BARDA is dependent on annual congressional appropriations and congress is not obligated to appropriate the authorized amount. The fiscal year 2014 appropriation for BARDA advanced development is consistent with PAHPRA at $415 million. The fiscal year 2014 appropriation for the SRF is $255 million. Our product development contract for Valortim® with NIAID expired January 31, 2012. In 2013 we entered into a contract for approximately $1 million to supply 35 vials of master cell bank for Valortim® to BARDA. There can be no assurance we will be successful in obtaining additional financial support to develop or procure Valortim®. 28 U.S. government agencies have special contracting authority that give them the ability to unilaterally terminate and/or modify our contracts. U.S. government contracts typically contain unilateral changes and termination provisions for the government and are subject to audit by the government at its sole discretion, which will subject us to additional risks. These risks include the ability of the U.S. government unilaterally to: •preclude us, either temporarily or for a set period of time, from receiving new contracts or extending existing contracts based on violations or suspected violations of laws or regulations; •terminate our contracts, either for the convenience of the government (at the government’s sole discretion, for example, if funds become unavailable or the government no longer wants the work) or for default (for failing to perform in accordance with the contract schedule and terms); •revise the scope and value of our contracts and/or revise the timing for work to be performed; •audit and object to our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs; •control and potentially prohibit the export of our products; •claim rights to intellectual property, including products, developed under the contract; •add, remove, or change the terms and conditions in our contracts; and •cancel or amend planned procurements, including outstanding RFP solicitations (as was the case with RFP-BARDA-08-15) and BAAs. The U.S. government will be able to terminate any of its contracts with us either for its convenience (at its sole discretion) or for default if we fail to perform in accordance with the contract schedule and terms. Termination-for-convenience provisions generally enable us to recover only our costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses, and profit on the work completed prior to termination. Termination-for-default provisions do not permit these recoveries and would make us liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. government in procuring undelivered items from another source. The U.S. government may reduce or delay spending in the biodefense field or eliminate funding of certain programs altogether, which could decrease the likelihood of future government contract awards, the likelihood that the government will exercise its right to extend any of its existing contracts with us and/or the likelihood that the government would procure products from us. The U.S. government’s determination to award any contracts may be challenged by an interested party, such as another bidder, at the relevant agency, GAO or in federal court (either in the first instance or in review of a prior agency or GAO decision). If such a challenge is successful, a contract award may be re-evaluated and terminated. The laws and regulations governing the procurement of goods and services by the U.S. government provide procedures by which other interested parties (typically, other bidders) may challenge the award of a government contract. If we are awarded a government contract, such challenges or protests could be filed, regardless of whether the award was actually improper. If a protest is filed, the government agency may decide, and in certain circumstances is required, either by statute or by court order, to suspend our performance under the contract while the protest is being considered by the U.S. Government Accountability Office, or GAO, or the applicable federal court, thus potentially delaying delivery of goods and services and payment. In addition, we might need to expend considerable funds to defend any potential award. If a protest is successful, the government may be ordered to re-evaluate bids and make an award based on the re-evaluation or amend the solicitation, invite new bids, and make an award based on an evaluation of such revised bids. 29 For example, in March 2010, a third-party filed a bid protest with the GAO challenging the February 2010 decision of the DHHS to modify its existing research and development contract with us for the development of SparVax®. In March 2010 DHHS suspended performance under the modification pursuant to the automatic stay provisions of the Competition in Contract Act (31 U.S.C. § 3553(d)) and implanting provisions of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), pending a decision by the GAO on the protest. While the bid protest was ultimately denied, and the related DHHS “stop work” order canceled in June 2010, the protest contributed to a reduction in revenues and cash and cash equivalents over the period that work could not be performed under the modification. In addition, we incurred unexpected general and administrative expenses to intervene in the protest. While we cannot be assured that the Delaware Chancery Court will issue a remedy that provides us with a financial interest in ArestvyrTM and related products or any remedy, another example, of an award challenge occurred in October 2010 when a losing bidder filed a successful protest with the U.S. Small Business Administration claiming that SIGA did not qualify as a small business entitled to a contract award under RFP-BARDA-09-35 for a smallpox antiviral. When the government subsequently issued a contract to SIGA in May 2011 without the small business requirement, this same losing bidder filed a second protest, this time with the GAO. While this protest was withdrawn, in exchange for dropping the protest, the government agreed to remove an option from the contract permitting the government to purchase up to 12 million additional courses of therapy of ArestvyrTM beyond the base purchase of 1.7 million courses of therapy. In addition, as a result of the partial U.S. Federal government shutdown from October 1 through October 16, 2013, work was temporarily suspended under our development contract for SparVax®. Consequently, our revenues under this contract for the fourth quarter of 2013 were lower than they otherwise could have been. Our business is subject to audit by the U.S. government, and a negative audit could adversely affect our business. U.S. government agencies such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency, or the DCAA, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The DCAA also reviews the adequacy of, and a contractor’s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including: •termination of contracts; •forfeiture of profits; •suspension of payments; •fines; and •suspension or prohibition from conducting business with the U.S. government. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. Laws and regulations affecting government contracts make it more costly and difficult for us to successfully conduct our business. We must comply with numerous laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts, which can make it more difficult for us to retain our rights under these contracts. These laws and regulations affect how we conduct business with government agencies. Among the most significant government contracting regulations that affect our business are: 30 •the Federal Acquisition Regulation, or FAR, and agency-specific regulations supplemental to the Federal Acquisition Regulation, which comprehensively regulate the procurement, from formation to administration and performance; •the business ethics and public integrity obligations, which govern conflicts of interest and the hiring of former government employees, prohibit, among other things, gratuities, restrict funding of lobbying activities and incorporate other requirements such as the Anti-Kickback Act, the Procurement Integrity Act, the False Claims Act and Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; •export and import control laws and regulations; •laws, regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data; and •laws, regulations, and executive orders that allow the government to claim certain rights to contractors’ intellectual property such as the Bayh-Dohl Act. Foreign governments typically also have laws and regulations governing contracts with their respective agencies. These foreign laws and regulations affect how we and our customers conduct business and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. Any changes in applicable laws and regulations could restrict our ability to maintain our existing contracts and obtain new contracts, which could limit our ability to conduct our business and materially adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Risks Related to Dependence on or Competition From Third Parties Because we depend on clinical research centers and other contractors for clinical and non-clinical testing, including testing under the Animal Rule, and for certain research and development activities, the results of our clinical trial, non-clinical animal efficacy studies, and research and development activities are largely beyond our control. The nature of clinical trials and our business strategy of outsourcing substantially all of our research and development and manufacturing work require that we rely on clinical research organizations and other contractors to assist us with research and development, clinical and non-clinical testing (including animal efficacy studies under the Animal Rule), patient enrollment, manufacturing and other activities. As a result, our success depends largely on the success of these third parties in performing their responsibilities. Although we prequalify our contractors and believe that they are fully capable of performing their contractual obligations, we cannot directly control the adequacy and timeliness of the resources and expertise that they apply to these activities. Furthermore, we have to compete with other biodefense and biopharmaceutical companies for access to this limited pool of highly specialized resources. If our contractors do not perform their obligations in an adequate and timely manner or we are unable to enter into contracts with them, the pace of clinical or non-clinical development, regulatory approval and commercialization of our product candidates could be significantly delayed and our prospects could be adversely affected. We depend on third parties to manufacture, package and distribute compounds for our product candidates and key components for our product candidates. The failure of these third parties to provide their services or to perform them successfully could harm our business. We do not have any of our own manufacturing facilities. We have therefore utilized, and intend to continue utilizing, third parties to manufacture, package and distribute our product candidates and key components of our product candidates. Any material disruption in manufacturing (i.e. due to third party capacity or availability limitations) could cause a delay in our development programs and potential future sales. Furthermore, certain compounds, media, or other raw materials used to manufacture our drug candidates are available from any one or a limited number of sources. Any delays or difficulties in obtaining key components for our product candidates or in manufacturing, packaging or distributing our product candidates could delay clinical trials and further development of these potential products. Additionally, the third parties we rely on for manufacturing and packaging are subject to regulatory review, and any regulatory compliance problems with these third parties could significantly delay or disrupt our commercialization activities. 31 Finally, third-party manufacturers, suppliers and distributors, like most companies, have been adversely affected by the credit crisis and weakening of the global economy and as such may be more susceptible to being acquired as part of the current wave of consolidations in the pharmaceutical industry. It has, for example, become challenging for companies to secure debt capital to fund their operations as financial institutions have significantly curtailed their lending activities. If our third-party suppliers continue to experience financial difficulties as a result of weak demand for their products or for other reasons and are unable to obtain the capital necessary to continue their present level of operations or are acquired by others, they may have to reduce their activities and/or their priorities or our working relationship with them might change. A material deterioration in their ability or willingness to meet their obligations to us could cause a delay in our development programs and potential future sales and jeopardize our ability to meet our obligations under our contracts with the government or other third parties. We face, and likely will continue to face, competition from companies with greater financial, personnel and research and development resources. Our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors are more successful in the development and marketing of their products. The biopharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological change. Our success will depend on our ability to develop and apply our technologies in the design and development of our product candidates and to establish and maintain a market for our product candidates. There are many organizations, both public and private, including major pharmaceutical and chemical companies, specialized biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions engaged in developing pharmaceutical and biotechnology products. Many of these organizations have substantially greater financial, technical, intellectual property, research and development, and human resources than we have. Competitors may develop products or other technologies that are more effective than any that we are developing or may obtain FDA approval for products more rapidly. For example, the U.S. government selected a plague vaccine product candidate from a competitor for advanced development funding, causing us to wind down activities related to the development of our RypVaxTM product candidate in 2010. If we commence commercial sales of products, we still must compete in the manufacturing and marketing of such products, areas in which we have limited experience. Many of these organizations also have manufacturing facilities and established marketing capabilities that would enable such companies to market competing products through existing channels of distribution. Our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that: •are more effective; •have fewer or less severe adverse side effects; •are more adaptable to various modes of dosing; •obtain orphan drug exclusivity that blocks the approval of our application for seven years; •are easier to administer; or •are less expensive than the products or product candidates that we are, or in the future will be, developing. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Affordable Care Act), signed into law by President Obama on March 23, 2010, amends the Public Health Service Act (PHS Act) to create an abbreviated licensure pathway for biological products that are demonstrated to be “biosimilar” to or “interchangeable” with an FDA-licensed biological product. Under this new law, a biological product may be demonstrated to be “biosimilar” if data show that, among other things, the product is “highly similar” to an already-approved biological product. To date, FDA has not approved a biological product as biosimilar or interchangeable. Since passage of the Affordable Care Act in 2010, however, FDA has been establishing standards for licensure to ensure the safety and effectiveness of biosimilars. Because biological products are complex products, the development and approval of biosimilars is a complicated and challenging process. The FDA understands that several companies are developing biosimilar products and may submit applications for licensure under the new law. Scientists, clinicians, and other personnel at the FDA are currently working out the details of the review and licensure process. It is not yet known when the first biosimilar will be on the U.S. market. 32 If we are successful in developing licensed biological products and a competitor company/companies choose to develop biosimilar products and receives FDA licensure for such products, this competition may impact the revenue projections for our products. Even if we are successful in developing effective products, and obtains FDA and other regulatory approvals necessary for commercializing them, our products may not compete effectively with other successful products. Our competitors may succeed in developing and marketing products either that are more effective than those that we may develop, alone or with our collaborators, making our products obsolete, or that are marketed before any products that we develop are marketed. Risks Related to Political and Social Factors Political or social factors may delay or impair our ability to market our products and our business may be materially adversely affected. Products developed to treat diseases caused by, or to combat the threat of, bioterrorism will be subject to changing political and social environments. The political and social responses to bioterrorism have been unpredictable. Political or social pressures may delay or cause resistance to bringing our products to market or limit pricing of our products, which would harm our business. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Our commercial success will be affected significantly by our ability (i) to obtain and maintain protection for our proprietary technology and that of our licensors and collaborators and (ii) not to infringe on patents and proprietary rights of third parties. Issues surrounding patents of biotechnology firms often involve complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, validity and enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. To date, no consistent policy has emerged regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents. We currently have four pending U.S. patent applications, and have a limited number of foreign patents and pending international and foreign patents applications. In addition, we have rights under numerous other patents and patent applications pursuant to exclusive and non-exclusive license arrangements with licensors and collaborators. However, there can be no assurance that patent applications owned or licensed by us will result in patents being issued or that the patents, whether existing or issued in the future, will afford protection against competitors with similar technology. Any conflicts resulting from third-party patent applications and patents could significantly reduce the coverage of the patents owned, optioned by or licensed to us or our collaborators and limit our ability or that of our collaborators to obtain meaningful patent protection. Further, our commercial success will depend significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. We are aware of one U.S. patent covering recombinant production of an antibody and a license may be required under such patent with respect to Valortim®, which is a monoclonal antibody and uses recombinant production technologies. Although the patent owner has granted licenses under such patent, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to obtain such a license or that the terms thereof will be reasonable. If we do not obtain such a license and if a legal action based on such patent was to be brought against us or our distributors, licensees or collaborators, we cannot provide any assurances that we or our distributors, licensees or collaborators would prevail or that we have sufficient funds or resources to defend such claims. The costs associated with establishing the validity of patents, of defending against patent infringement claims of others and of asserting infringement claims against others is expensive and time consuming, even if the ultimate outcome is favorable. An outcome of any patent prosecution or litigation that is unfavorable to us or one of our licensors or collaborators may have a material adverse effect on us. The expense of a protracted infringement suit, even if ultimately favorable, would also have a material adverse effect on us. 33 We furthermore rely upon trade secrets protection for our confidential and proprietary information. We have taken measures to protect our proprietary information; however, these measures may not provide adequate protection to us. We have sought to protect our proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators or consultants may still disclose our proprietary information, and we may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. In addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Risks Related to Regulatory Approvals and Legislation Our use of hazardous materials and chemicals requires us to comply with regulatory requirements which may result in significant costs and expose us to potential liabilities. Our research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials. We will not be able to eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be forced to pay significant damages or fines, and these damages could exceed our resources and any applicable insurance coverage. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with regulatory requirements in the future. Legislation limiting or restricting liability for medical products used to fight bioterrorism is new, and it cannot be certain that any such protection will apply to our products or if applied what the scope of any such coverage will be. The U.S. Public Readiness Act was signed into law in December 2005 and creates general immunity for manufacturers of countermeasures, including security countermeasures (as defined in Section 319F-2(c)(1)(B) of that act), when the U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services issues a declaration for their manufacture, administration or use. The declaration is meant to provide general immunity from all claims under state or federal law for loss arising out of the administration or use of a covered countermeasure. Manufacturers are excluded from this protection in cases of willful misconduct. Although our anthrax countermeasures have been covered under the general immunity provisions of the Public Readiness Act since October 1, 2008, there can be no assurance that the Secretary of Health and Human Services will make other declarations in the future that would cover any of our other product candidates or that the U.S. Congress will not act in the future to reduce coverage under the Public Readiness Act or to repeal it altogether. Upon a declaration by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, a compensation fund would be created to provide “timely, uniform, and adequate compensation to eligible individuals for covered injuries directly caused by the administration or use of a covered countermeasure.” The “covered injuries” to which the program applies are defined as serious physical injuries or death. Individuals are permitted to bring a willful misconduct action against a manufacturer only after they have exhausted their remedies under the compensation program. A willful misconduct action could be brought against us if an individual(s) has exhausted their remedies under the compensation program which thereby could expose us to liability. Furthermore, there is no assurance that the Secretary of Health and Human Services will issue under this act a declaration to establish a compensation fund. We may also become subject to standard product liability suits and other third party claims if products we develop which fall outside of the Public Readiness Act cause injury or if treated individuals subsequently become infected or otherwise suffer adverse effects from such products. We are required to comply with certain export control laws, which may limit our ability to sell our products to non-U.S. persons and may subject us to regulatory requirements that may delay or limit our ability to develop and commercialize our products. Our product candidates are subject to the Export Administration Regulations, or EAR, administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce and are, in certain instances (such as aspects of our nerve agent countermeasure product candidates) subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, or ITAR, administered by the U.S. Department of State. EAR restricts the export of dual-use products and technical data to certain countries, while ITAR restricts the export of defense products, technical data and defense services. The U.S. government agencies responsible for administering EAR and ITAR have significant discretion in the interpretation and enforcement of these regulations. Failure to comply with these regulations can result in criminal and civil penalties and may harm our ability to enter into contracts with the U.S. government. It is also possible that these regulations could adversely affect our ability to sell our products to non-U.S. customers. 34 Risks Related to Personnel We depend on our key technical and management personnel, and the loss of these personnel could impair the development of our products. We rely, and will continue to rely, on our key management and scientific staff, all of whom are employed at-will. The loss of key personnel or the failure to recruit necessary additional qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. There is intense competition from other companies, research and academic institutions and other organizations for qualified personnel. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. If we do not succeed in retaining and recruiting necessary personnel or developing this expertise, our business could suffer significantly. Biotechnology companies often become subject to claims that they or their employees wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of the employees’ former employers. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to our management. As is commonplace in the biotechnology industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including at competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that we or our employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and distract management. Risks Related to our Common Stock and, our GE Loan Agreement If we do not meet the continued listing standards of the NYSE MKT our common stock could be delisted from trading, which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our common stock and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our common stock is listed on the NYSE MKT, a national securities exchange, which imposes continued listing requirements with respect to listed shares. If, however, we fail to satisfy the continued listing standards, such as, for example, the requirement that our shares not trade “for a substantial period of time at a low price per share” or that we not dispose of our principal operating assets or discontinue a substantial portion of our operations, among other requirements, the NYSE MKT may issue another non-compliance letter or initiate delisting proceedings. If our securities are delisted from trading on the NYSE MKT and we are not able to list our securities on another exchange or to have them quoted on NASDAQ, our securities could be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board or on the “pink sheets.” As a result, we could face significant adverse consequences including: ·a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; ·a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our securities; ·a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for us; and ·a decreased ability to issue additional securities (including pursuant to short-form registration statements on Form S-3 or obtain additional financing in the future). 35 Our stock price is volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and is expected to continue to be, subject to significant volatility. The value of our common stock may decline regardless of our operating performance or prospects. Factors that may affect our market price include: •Our perceived prospects, including but not limited to any developments in the timing and outcome of the SIGA litigation and changes in U.S. government funding of projects in which we participate; •variations in our operating results and whether we have achieved key business targets; •changes in, or our failure to meet, revenue estimates; •changes in securities analysts’ buy/sell recommendations; •differences between our reported results and those expected by investors and securities analysts; •announcements of new contracts or other developments by us or our competitors; •reaction to any acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic investments announced by us or our competitors; and •general economic, political or stock market conditions. Shares that we may issue in the future in connection with certain capital-raising transactions and shares available for future issuance upon exercise of warrants and options could dilute our stockholders and depress the market price of our common stock. The issuance of our securities in the future may depress the market price of our stock, and any such financing(s) will dilute our existing stockholders. In addition, as of December 31, 2013, we had outstanding options to purchase approximately 6.0 million shares of common stock (not including restricted shares). Additional shares are reserved for issuance under our 2007 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan. Our stock options are generally exercisable for ten years, with a significant portion exercisable either immediately or beginning one year after the date of the grant. As of December 31, 2013, aggregate gross sales for additional common stock of approximately $8.6 million remained available under the March 25, 2013 controlled equity offering entered into with a sales agent pursuant to which we may offer and sell, from time to time, through the agent shares of our common stock having an aggregate offering price of up to $15.0 million. We filed two registration statements on Form S-3 (File Nos. 333-161587 and 333-176607) covering the resale of shares issued upon conversion of our 10% convertible notes and issuable upon exercise of related warrants by certain of our affiliates, among other security holders. Both registration statements have been declared effective. Our obligation under the terms of the related registration rights agreement is to keep these registration statements effective. The sale by these security holders of their shares pursuant to the registration statement or otherwise could depress the market price of our common stock. Finally, as of December 31, 2013, we had issued and outstanding additional warrants to purchase up to approximately 5.6 million shares of common stock. The issuance or even the expected issuance of a large number of shares of our common stock upon purchase, conversion or exercise of the securities described above could depress the market price of our stock and the issuance of such shares will dilute the stock ownership of our existing stockholders. Shares that we may issue in the future in connection with certain capital-raising transactions and shares available for future issuance upon exercise of warrants and options could dilute our stockholders and depress the market price of our common stock. 36 We can give no assurances that we will ever pay dividends. The current loan and security agreement with GE Capital specifically restricts the declaration or payment of any dividends. We have never paid any dividends on our common stock, and we do not intend to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future. While subject to periodic review, our current policy is to retain all earnings, if any, primarily to finance our future growth. We make no assurances that we will ever pay dividends, cash or otherwise. Whether we pay any dividends in the future will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, and other factors that we will consider. Our fully-secured loan agreement with GE Capital is subject to acceleration in specified circumstances, which may result in GE Capital taking possession and disposing of any collateral. In the first quarter 2012, we closed on a senior fully-secured debt facility with GE Capital providing for a $2.5 million term loan and a revolving line of credit of up to $5 million based on a percentage of our outstanding qualified accounts receivable. Our obligations under the GE Loan Agreement are secured by a security interest in substantially all of our assets. While the security interest does not, except in limited circumstances, cover our intellectual property, it does cover any proceeds to us from the use of intellectual property. The GE Loan Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and covenants, including limitations on acquisitions, dispositions, incurrence of indebtedness and the granting of security interests. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any event of default, GE Capital may, and at the written request of the requisite lenders shall, terminate the commitments under the facilities and declare any or all of the obligations to be immediately due and payable, without demand or notice to us. Any event of default relating to timely payment of debts, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy or similar events will result in automatic acceleration. Among the remedies available to GE Capital in case of an event of default are the taking possession and disposition of any collateral under the GE Loan Agreement. Item 1.B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 