Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this report in evaluating us and our Common Stock and other securities. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In that case, the trading price of our Common Stock and other securities also could be adversely affected. We make various statements in this section, which constitute “forward-looking statements.” See “Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Associated With Our Industry and Specifically the Iron Ore Business We are subject to numerous risks and hazards associated with the mining industry. Our mining operations are subject to a number of risks and hazards including: § industrial accidents; § unusual or unexpected geologic formations; § explosive rock failures; and § flooding and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions. Such risks could result in a variety of issues that could affect our operations, such as damage to or destruction of mineral properties or production facilities, environmental damage, delays in our mining operations, personal injury or death, monetary losses and possible legal liability. In order to mitigate these risks we are consulting with attorneys about the possibility of creating several subsidiaries and structurally isolating each mine so that liability can be limited. No assurance can be given that we will be able to avoid any or all of the hazards discussed above and any such occurrence may substantially affect our business and financial operations. Our operations are highly susceptible to hazardous weather conditions and seasonal weather conditions. India, specifically the east and west coasts where our supply chains are located, northern Mongolia, and northeastern China where Ironman’s processing chain is located, potentially experience severe weather conditions. Severe weather conditions could cause our supply chain and/or processing chain to temporarily curtail or stop operations materially affecting our quarterly results. During periods of curtailed activity due to adverse weather conditions, our operations in both countries may continue to incur operating expenses, reducing profitability. Certain weather conditions may affect mining operations. The Ironman beneficiation plant is located in a region with a typical subtropical climate characterized mainly by high precipitation and high evaporation and humid conditions. The rainy season occurs from May to August of each year, which may make the plant inaccessible or unusable during such rainy season due to flooding caused by insufficient drainage necessary to release the excess water that has accumulated. During the last rainy season there was a particularly rainy season marked by much flooding in China and a halt in business operations for several months. In northern Mongolia, temperatures can dip to as low as -30 degrees Celsius in the winter, making certain operations difficult. As such, mining operation may be interrupted due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions experienced during such rainy season. We may not be able to obtain necessary raw materials at competitive price and this may negatively affect our profits. On the supply side, including procuring sufficient raw materials, we may have difficulties procuring low-grade iron ore at specific sizes at competitive prices. In the event we are unable to secure steady suppliers, it could negatively affect our profitability. The processing plant in China requires water for the wet separation. While there is currently and for the foreseeable future an adequate supply of water, any discrepancy with the supply of water could lead to curtailing operations, which could affect our profitability. Likewise, construction contracts are primarily dependent on adequate and timely supply of raw materials, such as cement, steel and aggregates, at competitive prices. As the demand from competing larger and well-established material supply firms increases for procuring raw materials, we could face a disproportionate increase in the price of raw materials that may negatively impact our profitability. The cost of logistics and shipping between India or Mongolia and China may reduce our income. Our process involves moving ore from mine heads to crushers and then to the port for shipping. We rely on third parties to provide a number of important services in connection with our business, and any disruption in these services could materially affect our business. For example, we depend on trucking companies to move the ore. A surge in demand for ore and, in general, other commodities, could increase the cost of domestic logistic affecting our profitability. Additionally, we depend on shipping agencies to move ore from India to China and an increase in the price of shipping could adversely affect our profitability. We are considering using both trucks and trains to move iron ore from Mongolia to China, which would be subject to the same concerns. 8 Table of Contents Assessment of penalties for time overruns and lack of quality may adversely affect our economic performance. TBL executes construction contracts primarily in the roads and infrastructure development sectors. TBL typically enters into high value contracts for these activities, which impose penalties if the contracts are not executed in a timely manner. If TBL is unable to meet the performance criteria prescribed by the contracts, then levied penalties may adversely affect our financial performance. Furthermore, we may pay demurrage for some of our iron ore delivery contracts, if ore is not loaded onto ships in the time prescribed by delivery contracts. The payment of demurrage may adversely affect our financial performance. The ore shipped by us from India is shipped with a quality certificate from a leading company. However, the buyers in China also perform quality measurements, which could differ from the initial quality certificate. This may result in negative price adjustments affecting our profit margins. The rock aggregate business is less sensitive to time overruns and quality. Our business is dependent on continuing relationships with clients and strategic partners. Our business requires developing and maintaining strategic alliances with contractors that undertake turnkey contracts for infrastructure development projects and with government organizations. The business and our results could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain continuing relationships and pre-qualified status with key clients and strategic partners. Mining is inherently dangerous and subject to conditions or events beyond our control, and any operating hazards could have a material adverse effect on our business. During the course of mining activities, we use dangerous materials and there is no assurance that accidents will not occur. Should we be held liable for any such accident, we may be subject to penalties, and possible criminal proceedings may be brought against us by our employees, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. PRC Ironman’s mining operations could have material safety concerns, which may result in accidents and in turn negatively affect our revenue. PRC Ironman’s mining operations could have safety issues in its iron ore mine or beneficiation plants including, in part, inadequate natural ventilation, likelihood of flooding in the tunnels, etc. Accidents and employee’s injury arising from any safety issues may cause suspension or discontinuance of our mining operation and thus negatively affect our revenue. Mining exploitation activities are labor intensive and employ low levels of mechanization, which may result in inefficiency and impose greater safety and health hazards concern. Ironman used rudimentary mining methods and low levels of mechanization since the beginning of its mining operation. The labor-intensive and low-mechanization mining method its uses in its mining operations results in inefficient operation. The relatively large number of mining workers exposed to dust, noise, heat and vibration caused by its mining methods may increase the possibility of accidents and health hazards. We may suffer losses resulting from unexpected accidents. Like other mining companies, our operations may suffer from structural issues such as unusual or unexpected geologic formations or explosive rock failures that may result in accidents that cause property damage and possible personal injuries. We can give no assurance that industry-related accidents will not occur in the future. We do not maintain flood or other property insurance covering our properties, equipment, or inventories. Any losses and/or liabilities we incur due to unexpected property damage or personal injury could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Restrictive regulation on the export of ore may adversely affect our business. Restrictive regulation on the export of ore from India or the import of ore into China may adversely affect our profitability. India restricts the export of high quality ore to government agencies. China restricts the import of low quality ore to specific agents. In the event these regulations change and become even more restrictive, our profitability could be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents Strikes, civil unrest, and tensions between India, Mongolia, and China could have an impact on our business. The supply chain for ore is heavily dependent on transportation. A strike by truck drivers could adversely affect our business. The processing plant in China is located in the province of Inner Mongolia and any civil unrest in that area, or other parts of China, could disrupt the logistics and processing chain adversely affecting our business. India and China have had their share of disputes in the past 60 years. India and China had ancient friendly ties going back to the silk route. However, beginning in the 1950s the relationship became strained largely over Tibet and issues over borders. In 1962, China attacked India along its border, coinciding with the Cuban missile crisis that preoccupied the super powers U.S., Russia and the UK. The war ended with a complete withdrawal that coincided with the arrival of the U.S. air force. However, while there can be no guarantee that hostilities may again reappear between the two countries, much has changed since the 1962 war. Both India and China are now nuclear powers, underpinning the notion of Mutually Assured Destruction, and both are strategic partners with the U.S. Both countries took part in the first ever BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and China) Summit, in June 2011. Both countries have had thirteen rounds of border talks and the recent one in August 2011, ended with both nations discussing raising their strategic partnership to a higher level. In 2008-2009 India’s largest trading partner was China followed by the U.S. and the United Arab Emirates. If hostilities between the two countries reappear, our business may be adversely affected. Indian and Mongolian relations appear to be stable. Mongolia may see India as an important ally given China’s military ascendency, instability in the Middle East, and its status as a leading democracy in its region, and the two have participated in joint military exercises together over the past few years. However, it is possible that India is displaying such eagerness to cooperate with Mongolia only to gain access to its mineral wealth. Regardless, relations between the two countries are currently on strong footing, unlike those between Mongolia and China. Centuries ago, Mongolia was part of the Chinese empire, but it now seeks to decrease its dependence on China. After Mongolia gained independence from the Soviet Union, its economy quickly became reliant on Chinese demand. China is Mongolia’s largest foreign investor, and nearly all of Mongolian exports go to China. However, this dependence has man in the Mongolian government worried, and so the government recently passed a law making Chinese investment in Mongolia more difficult. An influx of illegal Chinese laborers, who work for lower wages than Mongolians do, contributes to social tensions as well. Currency fluctuations may reduce our profitability. Iron ore is traded in USD. However, the supply side, including logistics in India, is settled in Indian rupees (INR). On the other hand, the expenses for processing the ore in China are all met in RMB. Therefore, three currencies are involved in a typical trade. Fluctuations of one currency relative to the others may adversely affect our profit margins. Environmental regulations could adversely affect Ironman’s business. The process of digging ore from the ground is typically environmentally unfriendly as is the process of beneficiation, which uses ground water. Stricter environmental controls in India or China on the mining of ore or the processing of ore could have an adverse impact on our business, by raising additional compliance expenses. Mineral exploration and development, as well as Ironman’s current mining activities and its future mineral mining operations are, and may continue to be, subject to stringent state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to environmental quality, production, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, protection and remediation of the environment, mine safety, toxic substances and other matters. Mineral mining is also subject to risks and liabilities associated with pollution of the environment and disposal of waste products occurring as a result of mineral production. Compliance with these laws and regulations will impose substantial costs on Ironman and may subject it to significant potential liabilities. Further, any changes to these regulations may increase Ironman’s operating costs and may adversely affect its results of operations. Our business relies heavily on our management team and any unexpected loss of key officers may adversely affect our operations. The continued success of our business is largely dependent on the continued services of key employees in IGC and our subsidiaries after the Acquisition. The loss of the services of certain key personnel, without adequate replacement, could have an adverse effect on our performance. Our senior management, as well as the senior management of our subsidiaries, plays a significant role in developing and executing the overall business plan, maintaining client relationships, proprietary processes and technology. While no one is irreplaceable, the loss of the services of any would be disruptive to our business. A large portion of our iron ore revenue is derived from five major customers. Five of our iron ore customers accounted for 90%, respectively of its total revenue for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013. We expect this concentration to continue, as the buyers of iron ore tend to be large traders or steel mills. Non-renewal or/and termination of such relationship may have a material adverse effect on its revenue. No assurance can be given that following the Acquisition that it will be able to maintain such a relationship. Additionally, no assurance can be given that our business will not remain largely dependent on a limited number of customers accounting for a substantial part of our revenue. 10 Table of Contents Our quarterly revenue, operating results and profitability will vary. Factors that may contribute to the variability of quarterly revenue, operating results or profitability include: § Fluctuations in revenue due to seasonality such as during the monsoon season, the heavy rains slow down road building and during the summer months, the winds are not strong enough to power the wind turbines, which results in uneven revenue and operating results over the year; § Commencement, completion and shipment during any particular quarter; § Weather and additions and departures of key personnel; and § Strategic decisions made by us and our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments and changes in business strategy. We face intense competition in the Iron ore business. Large companies in Brazil, Australia, India, and other ore producing countries dominate the iron ore business. Most of these companies are miners and export directly to the large steel mills around the world. Our strategy of sourcing low-grade inexpensive ore from India or Mongolia and processing it in China allows us to supply steel producers at competitive prices, while maintaining margins. We depend on our expertise in sourcing low cost low-grade ore and to process the ore. If we are unable to offer competitive prices there could be a significant reduction in our revenue. IGC may not be able to compete successfully for mineral rights with companies having greater financial resources than we have. All mines have limited resources and as such, we intend to acquire additional mining operations, as part of our long-term strategy. As there is a limited supply of desirable mineral deposits in the PRC, we face strong competition for promising acquisition targets from other mining companies, some of which have greater financial resources than we have. IGC may be unable to compete with such other mining companies in making acquisitions that we deem to be complementary to our business, or to acquire such on terms that are acceptable to us. Our revenue and, therefore, our profitability, may be affected by metal price volatility. The majority of our revenue is derived from the sale of high-grade ore. Consequently, our revenue is directly related to the price of high-grade ore. We do not conduct any hedging of the price of iron ore, which exposes us to increased price volatility. Iron ore is one of the biggest dry bulk commodities traded and shipped. According to the U.S. Geological Survey, Mineral Commodity Summaries, January 2012 report, the estimated world total mine production of iron ore was 2,800 million metric tons of usable ore worth $336 billion and the world total resources of iron ore content was 80,000 million metric tons of usable ore. The price (estimated from reported value of ore at mines) was $120 USD per metric ton. The growth of spot trading in this huge market presents an opportunity for banks, traders, producers and consumers to manage price risk and exposure. Trading since 2008, the iron ore swap has emerged as the leading instrument for iron ore hedging and risk management. Changes in the prices of high-grade ore and lead may adversely affect our operating results. It is difficult to predict whether high-grade ore prices will rise or fall in the future and a decline in prices could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 