Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We are subject to the cyclical nature of the markets in which we compete and any future downturn could adversely affect our business. The markets in which we compete, including the memory semiconductor market, are highly cyclical and characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. These markets have experienced significant downturns often connected with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both manufacturers’ and their customers’ products and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Our historical operating results have been subject to substantial fluctuations, and we may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future operating results. Any future downturns in these markets could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and therefore a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, changes in end-user demand for the products sold by any individual OEM customer can have a rapid and disproportionate effect on demand for our products from that customer in any given period, particularly if the OEM customer has accumulated excess inventories of products purchased from us. There can be no assurance that our net sales and results of operations will not be materially and adversely affected in the future due to changes in demand from individual customers or cyclical changes in the industries utilizing our products. As a result, our results of operations for the fourth quarter and year ended August 31, 2006 may not be indicative of our future results. We have experienced quarterly and annual losses in the past and may experience losses in the future. We have experienced losses on a quarterly and annual basis in the past. We have expended, and will continue to expend, substantial funds to pursue engineering, research and development projects, enhance sales and marketing efforts and otherwise operate our business. There can be no assurance that we will be profitable on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Declines in our average selling prices may result in declines in our net sales and gross profit. Our average selling prices may decline due to several factors. Over the last few years, overcapacity in the DRAM memory component market resulted in significant declines in component prices, which negatively impacted our average selling prices and net sales. During periods of overcapacity, our net sales may decline if we do not increase unit sales of existing products or fail to introduce and sell new products in quantities sufficient to offset declines in selling prices. Our efforts to increase unit sales, reduce costs and develop new products to offset the impact of further declines in average selling prices may not be successful. Declines in semiconductor prices could also affect our gross profit and the valuation of our inventory, which could harm our financial results. Declines in 7 Table of Contents average selling prices would enable OEMs to pre-install higher capacity based memory into new systems at existing price points, and thereby reduce the demand for future memory upgrades. In addition, our net sales and gross profit may be negatively affected by shifts in our product mix during periods of declining average selling prices. In addition, the continued transition to smaller design geometries and the use of 300 millimeter wafers by existing memory manufacturers could lead to a significant increase in the worldwide supply of DRAM and flash components. Increases in the worldwide supply of memory components could also result from manufacturing capacity expansions. If not offset by increases in demand, these increases would likely lead to further declines in the average selling prices of our products and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, even if supply remains constant, if demand were to decrease, it would harm our average selling prices. Sales to a limited number of customers represent a significant portion of our net sales, and the loss of any key customer would materially harm our business. Our dependence on a limited number of customers means that the loss of a major customer or any reduction in orders by a major customer would materially reduce our net sales and adversely affect our results of operations. We expect that sales to relatively few customers will continue to account for a significant percentage of our net sales for the foreseeable future. However, there can be no assurance that any of these customers or any of our other customers will continue to utilize our products at current levels, if at all. We have no firm, long-term volume commitments from any of our major customers and we generally enter into individual purchase orders with our customers, in certain cases under master agreements that govern the terms and conditions of the relationship. We have experienced cancellations of orders and fluctuations in order levels from period to period and expect that we will continue to experience such cancellations and fluctuations in the future. Customer purchase orders may be cancelled and order volume levels can be changed, cancelled or delayed with limited or no penalties. The replacement of cancelled, delayed or reduced purchase orders with new orders cannot be assured. Our principal customers include major OEMs which compete in the computing, networking, communications, printer, storage and industrial markets. For 2006, 2005 and 2004, our ten largest OEM customers accounted for 78%, 79% and 86% of net sales, respectively. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, Hewlett-Packard accounted for 45%, 46% and 65% of our net sales, respectively. For 2006, 2005 and 2004, Cisco Systems accounted for 14%, 18% and 11% of our net sales, respectively. During these periods, no other customers accounted for more than 10% of our net sales. Our customers are primarily in the computing, networking, communications, printer, storage and industrial markets, and fluctuations in demand in these markets may adversely affect sales of our products. Sales of our products are dependent upon demand in the computing, networking, communications, printer, storage and industrial markets. We may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future operating results due to factors affecting the computing, networking, communications, printer, storage and industrial markets. From time to time, each of these markets has experienced downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, declines in general economic conditions. A decline or significant shortfall in demand in any one of these markets could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and therefore a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Customer demand is difficult to accurately forecast and, as a result, we may be unable to optimally calibrate production to meet customer demand. We make significant decisions, including determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept, production schedules, component procurement commitments, personnel needs and other resource requirements, based on our estimates of customer requirements. The short-term nature of commitments by many of our customers and the possibility of unexpected changes in demand for their products reduces our ability to accurately estimate future customer requirements. On occasion, customers may require rapid increases in production, which can challenge our resources and can reduce margins. We may not have sufficient capacity at any given time to meet our 8 Table of Contents customers’ demands. Conversely, downturns in the markets in which our customers compete can, and have, caused our customers to significantly reduce the amount of products ordered from us or to cancel existing orders leading to lower-utilization of our facilities. Because many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, reduction in customer demand would have an adverse effect on our gross margins, operating income and cash flow. During an industry downturn, there is also a higher risk that our trade receivables would be uncollectible. Order cancellations or reductions, product returns and product obsolescence could result in substantial inventory write-downs. To the extent we manufacture products in anticipation of future demand that does not materialize, or in the event a customer cancels or reduces outstanding orders, we could experience an unanticipated increase in our inventory. Slowing demand for our products may lead to product returns which would also increase our inventory. In the past, we have had to write-down inventory due to obsolescence, excess quantities and declines in market value below our costs. Our historical financial information has been derived in part from our predecessor company financial statements and, as a result, may not reflect what our financial information would have been had we been a stand-alone entity during such periods. In April 2004, our business was acquired from Solectron by a group of investors led by Texas Pacific Group, Francisco Partners and Shah Capital Partners. Our financial statements have been derived in part from the consolidated financial statements of Solectron. Accordingly, our historical financial information does not necessarily reflect what our financial position, operating results and cash flows would have been had we been a separate, stand-alone entity during all periods presented. We may be less competitive if we fail to develop new or enhanced products and introduce them in a timely manner. The markets in which we compete are subject to rapid technological change, product obsolescence, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, changes in end-user requirements and evolving industry standards. Our ability to successfully compete in these markets and to continue to grow our business depends in significant part upon our ability to develop, introduce and sell new and enhanced products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and to anticipate and respond to changing customer requirements. The markets for our products are characterized by frequent transitions in which products rapidly incorporate new features and performance standards. A failure to develop products with required feature sets or performance standards or a delay as short as a few months in bringing a new product to market could significantly reduce our net sales for a substantial period, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, delays in the development and introduction of new products. These delays could provide a competitor a first-to-market opportunity and allow a competitor to achieve greater market share. Defects or errors found in our products after commencement of commercial shipment could result in delays in market acceptance of these products. Lack of market acceptance for our new products will jeopardize our ability to recoup research and development expenditures, hurt our reputation and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our future product development efforts will result in future profitability or market acceptance. Our dependence on a small number of sole or limited source suppliers subjects us to certain risks and our results of operations would be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies in a timely manner. We are dependent upon certain sole or limited source suppliers for critical components in our products. Our suppliers include Qimonda, Intel, Oki Semiconductor and Samsung. The markets in which we operate have experienced, and may experience in the future, shortages in semiconductors. In the past and currently, this situation has caused some vendors to place their customers, including us, on component allocation. Our suppliers are not 9 Table of Contents required to supply us with any minimum quantities and there can be no assurance that we will receive adequate quantities of components on a timely basis in the future. As a result, we may not be able to obtain the components that we need to fill customer orders. The inability to fill these orders could cause delays, disruptions or reductions in product shipments or require product redesigns which could, in turn, damage relationships with current or prospective customers, increase costs or prices and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The flash memory market is constantly evolving and competitive, and we may not have rights to manufacture and sell certain types of products utilizing emerging flash formats, or we may be required to pay a royalty to sell products utilizing these formats. The flash-based storage market is constantly undergoing rapid technological change and evolving industry standards. Many consumer devices, such as digital cameras, PDAs and smartphones, are transitioning to emerging flash memory formats, such as the Memory Stick, on xD Picture Card formats, which we do not currently manufacture and do not have rights to manufacture. Although we do not currently serve the consumer flash market, it is possible that certain OEMs may choose to adopt these higher-volume, lower-cost formats. This could result in a decline in demand, on a relative basis, for other products that we manufacture such as CompactFlash and embedded USB drives. If we decide to manufacture flash memory products utilizing emerging formats such as those mentioned, we will be required to secure licenses to give us the right to manufacture such products which may not be available at reasonable rates or at all. If we are not able to supply flash card formats at competitive prices or if we were to have product shortages, our net sales could be adversely impacted and our customers would likely cancel orders or seek other suppliers to replace us. Our growth strategy includes expanding our presence in the embedded computing and TFT-LCD markets which are competitive markets. The embedded computing and TFT-LCD markets are competitive. Certain of our competitors are more diversified than us and may be able to sustain lower operating margins in their embedded computing and TFT-LCD business based on the profitability of their other businesses. We expect competition in these markets to increase as existing manufacturers introduce new products and process technologies, new manufacturers enter the market, industry-wide production capacity increases and competitors aggressively price products to increase market share. We only have limited experience competing in these markets. Our growth strategy includes expanding our presence in these markets, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so. Our growth initiatives require significant capital investments and we cannot assure you that we will realize a positive return on these investments. Our growth initiatives require significant capital investment. For example, we recently completed our new 49,000 square foot manufacturing facility in Sao Paulo, Brazil for total cost of approximately $14 million. While operations and production have commenced at this facility, there can be no assurances that we will realize a positive return on this, or other such investments. Industry consolidation could adversely affect our business by reducing the number of our potential significant customers and increasing our reliance on our existing key customers. Many significant participants in our customers’ industries are merging and consolidating as a result of competitive pressures, and we expect this trend to continue. Consolidation will likely decrease the number of potential significant customers for our products and services. Fewer significant customers will increase our reliance on key customers and, due to the increased size of these companies, may negatively impact our bargaining position and profit margins. Consolidation in some of our customers’ industries may result in increased customer concentration and the potential loss of customers. The loss of, or a reduced role with, key customers due to industry consolidation could negatively impact our business. 10 Table of Contents We may make acquisitions which involve numerous risks. If we are not successful in integrating the technologies, operations and personnel of acquired businesses or fail to realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, our operations may be adversely affected. As part of our business and growth strategy, we expect to acquire or make significant investments in businesses, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offering, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. For example in September 2004, we acquired Estecom, a producer of TFT-LCD display products, and in August 2005 we acquired ConXtra, Inc., a product design and design manufacturing services provider. Any such future acquisitions or investments would expose us to the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of businesses. Such risks include, among others: • problems integrating the purchased operations, technologies or products; • costs associated with the acquisition; • negative effects on profitability resulting from the acquisition; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • loss of key employees of the acquired business; and • litigation arising from the acquired company’s operations before the acquisition. Our inability to overcome problems encountered in connection with any acquisition could divert the attention of management, utilize scarce corporate resources and otherwise harm our business. In addition, we are unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisition candidate will become available or the likelihood that any acquisition will be completed. Even if we do find suitable acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to consummate the acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms or realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions we do undertake. We may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position because of the intense competition in the markets we serve. We conduct business in markets characterized by intense competition, rapid technological change, constant price pressures and evolving industry standards. Our competitors include many large domestic and international companies that have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, broader product lines, lower cost structures, greater brand recognition and longer-standing relationships with customers and suppliers than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond better to new or emerging technologies or standards and to changes in customer requirements. Further, some of our competitors are in a better financial and marketing position from which to influence industry acceptance of a particular industry standard or competing technology than we are. Our competitors may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products, and may be able to deliver competitive products at a lower price. We compete against semiconductor manufacturers that maintain captive memory module and card production capabilities, including Qimonda, Micron, Samsung and SanDisk. Our primary competitors in the memory module and card industry include Kingston, M-Systems, SimpleTech and Viking InterWorks, a Sanmina-SCI company. Our primary competitors in the embedded computing market are Artesyn, Kontron and Radisys and in the TFT-LCD market we compete against Kortek and Tobis. We expect to face competition from existing competitors and new and emerging companies that may enter our existing or future markets with similar or alternative products, which may be less costly or provide additional features. In the personal computer, or PC, market in Asia, we expect to face increasing competition from local competitors such as A-Data and Ramaxel. We also face competition from current and prospective customers that evaluate our capabilities against the merits of manufacturing products internally. In addition, some of our significant suppliers, including Samsung, Qimonda and Micron, are also our competitors, many of whom have the ability to manufacture competitive products at lower costs as a result of their higher levels of integration. Competition may also arise due to the development of cooperative relationships among our current and potential competitors or third 11 Table of Contents parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We expect that our competitors will continue to improve the performance of their current products, reduce their prices and introduce new products that may offer greater performance and improved pricing, any of which could cause a decline in sales or loss of market acceptance of our products. In addition, our competitors may develop enhancements to, or future generations of, competitive products that may render our technology or products obsolete or uncompetitive. Our success is dependent on achieving design wins into commercially successful OEM systems and the failure to achieve design wins or of OEM customers to incorporate our products in their systems could adversely affect our operating results and prospects. Our products are generally incorporated into our OEM customers’ systems at the design stage. As a result, we rely on OEMs to select our products to be designed into their systems, which we refer to as a design win. We often incur significant expenditures in the development of a new product without any assurance that an OEM will select our product for design into its system. Additionally, in some instances, we are dependent on third parties to obtain or provide information that we need to achieve a design win. Some of these third parties may not supply this information to us on a timely basis, if at all. Furthermore, even if an OEM designs one of our products into its system, we cannot be assured that its product will be commercially successful or that we will receive any net sales as a result of that design win. Our OEM customers are typically not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to stop using our products if their own systems are not commercially successful, if they decide to pursue other systems strategies, or for any other reason. If we are unable to achieve design wins or if our OEM customers’ systems incorporating our products are not commercially successful, our net sales would suffer. Our business is dependent upon our OEM customers continuing to outsource the design and manufacturing of value added subsystems. Historically, OEMs designed and manufactured subsystems, such as memory modules, in-house. In recent years, many OEMs have begun outsourcing the design and manufacturing of these subsystems. Our business is dependent upon our OEM customers continuing to outsource the design and manufacturing of these subsystems. Our OEM customers have the requisite capabilities and capital resources to bring the design and manufacturing of these value added subsystems in-house once again, which would cause our business to suffer. Our future success is dependent on our ability to retain key personnel, including our executive officers, and attract qualified personnel. If we lose the services of these individuals or are unable to attract new talent, our business will be adversely affected. Our future operating results depend in significant part upon the continued contributions of our key technical and senior management personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. We are particularly dependent on the continued service of Iain MacKenzie, our chief executive officer and president, and Jack A. Pacheco, our chief financial officer and senior vice president. Our future operating results also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract, train and retain qualified management, manufacturing and quality assurance, engineering, marketing, sales and support personnel. We are continually recruiting such personnel. However, competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting, training or retaining such personnel now or in the future. There may be only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in these positions and it may be increasingly difficult for us to hire such persons over time. The loss of any key employee, the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, our inability to attract, train and retain skilled employees as needed or the inability of our officers and key employees to expand, train and manage our employee base could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We rely on third-party sales representatives to assist in selling our products, and the failure of these representatives to perform as expected could reduce our future sales. We sell our products to some of our OEM customers through third-party sales representatives. Our relationships with some of our third-party sales representatives have been established recently, and we are unable to predict the extent to which our third-party sales representatives will be successful in marketing and selling our products. Moreover, many of our third-party sales representatives also market and sell competing products. Our third-party sales representatives may terminate their relationships with us at any time. Our future performance will also depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional third-party sales representatives that will be able to market and support our products effectively, especially in markets in which we have not previously sold our products. If we cannot retain our current third-party sales representatives or recruit additional or replacement third-party sales representatives, our net sales and operating results could be harmed. We have and will continue to incur increased costs as a result of becoming a reporting company. We have and will continue to face increased legal, accounting, administrative and other costs as a result of becoming a reporting company that we did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, have required changes in the corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial reporting compliance costs and to make legal, accounting and administrative activities more time consuming and costly. For example, we added an additional independent director, created additional committees of our board of directors and adopted policies regarding internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures. We have also incurred substantially higher costs to obtain directors and officers’ insurance. In addition, as we gain experience with the costs associated with being a reporting company, we may identify and incur additional overhead costs. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls or discover material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or detect fraud, which could harm our business and the trading price of our ordinary shares. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important in our effort to prevent financial fraud. Beginning with our fiscal year ending August 31, 2007, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes — Oxley Act of 2002, we will be required to periodically evaluate the effectiveness of the design and operation of our internal controls. These evaluations may result in the conclusion that enhancements, modifications or changes to our internal controls are necessary or desirable. While management evaluates the effectiveness of our internal controls on a regular basis, these controls may not always be effective. There are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of internal controls including collusion, management override, and failure of human judgment. Because of this, control procedures are designed to reduce rather than eliminate business risks. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls or if management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to discover material weaknesses in our internal controls, we may be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud and it could harm our financial condition and results of operations and result in loss of investor confidence and a decline in our share price. Our indemnification obligations to our customers and suppliers for product defects could require us to pay substantial damages. A number of our product sales and product purchase agreements provide that we will defend, indemnify and hold harmless our customers and suppliers from damages and costs which may arise from product warranty claims or claims for injury or damage resulting from defects in our products. We maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with the use of our products, but our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all or any part of the claims asserted against us. A successful claim brought against us that is in excess of, or excluded from, our insurance coverage could substantially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Our operations in foreign countries are subject to political and economic risks, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Sales outside of the United States, Puerto Rico and Canada accounted for approximately 35%, 31%, and 30% of net sales in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We anticipate that international sales will continue to constitute a meaningful percentage of our total net sales in future periods. In addition, a significant portion of our design and manufacturing is performed at our facilities in Brazil, the Dominican Republic, Malaysia and South Korea. We also have an arrangement with third parties in India and China for the manufacturing of memory modules under the SMART brand. As a result, our operations may be subject to certain risks, including changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers, increased price pressure, timing and availability of export licenses, difficulties in accounts receivable collections, difficulties in protecting our intellectual property, natural disasters, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, difficulties in managing distributors, difficulties in obtaining governmental approvals for products that may require certification, restrictions on transfers of funds and other assets of our subsidiaries between jurisdictions, foreign currency exchange fluctuations, the burden of complying with a wide variety of complex foreign laws and treaties, potentially adverse tax consequences and uncertainties relative to regional, political and economic circumstances. We are also subject to the risks associated with the imposition of legislation and regulations relating to the import or export of high technology products. We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions upon the importation or exportation of our products will be implemented by the United States or other countries. Some of our customers’ purchase orders and agreements are governed by foreign laws, which often differ significantly from United States laws. Therefore, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights under such agreements and to collect damages, if awarded. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to effectively manage our operations in foreign countries could harm our operating results. A significant portion of our design and manufacturing operations are carried out outside of the United States through our foreign subsidiaries and at our foreign facilities, especially in Malaysia and increasingly in Brazil. Further, international sales have accounted for a significant portion of our overall sales. In some of the countries in which we operate or sell our products, it is difficult to recruit, employ and retain qualified personnel to manage and oversee our local operations, sales and other activities. Further, given our executive officers’ existing managerial burdens, their lack of physical proximity to the activities being managed and the inherent limitations of cross-border information flow, our executive officers who reside in the United States may be unable to effectively oversee the day-to-day management of our foreign subsidiaries and operations. The inability of or failure by our domestic and international management to effectively and efficiently manage our overseas operations could have a negative impact on our business and adversely affect our operating results. Worldwide economic and political conditions may adversely affect demand for our products. The last economic slowdown in the United States and worldwide adversely affected demand for our products. Although economic conditions have continued to improve since the second half of 2003, another decline in the worldwide semiconductor market or a future decline in economic conditions or consumer confidence in any significant geographic area would likely decrease the overall demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on us. For example, a decline in economic conditions in China could lead to declining worldwide economic conditions. If economic conditions decline, whether in China or worldwide, we could be materially adversely affected. The occurrence and threat of terrorist attacks and the consequences of sustained military action in the Middle East have in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect demand for our products. In addition, terrorist attacks may negatively affect our operations directly or indirectly and such attacks or related armed conflicts may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. Furthermore, these attacks may make travel and the transportation of our products more difficult and more expensive, ultimately affecting our sales. Also as a result of terrorism and/or threat from weapons of mass destruction, the United States has been and may continue to be involved in armed conflicts that could have a further impact on our sales, our supply chain and 14 Table of Contents our ability to deliver products to our customers. Political and economic instability in some regions of the world, such as the Middle East or North Korea, could negatively impact our business. The consequences of armed conflicts are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have a material adverse effect on us. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility to the United States economy and worldwide financial markets. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could result in our products becoming relatively more expensive to our overseas customers or increase our manufacturing costs, each of which could adversely affect our profitability. Our international sales and our operations in foreign countries make us subject to risks associated with fluctuating currency values and exchange rates. Because sales of our products have been denominated to date primarily in U.S. dollars, increases in the value of the U.S. dollar could increase the price of our products so that they become relatively more expensive to customers in the local currency of a particular country, leading to a reduction in sales and profitability in that country. Future international activity may result in increased foreign currency denominated sales. Gains and losses on the conversion to U.S. dollars of accounts receivable, accounts payable and other monetary assets and liabilities arising from international sales or operations may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations. In addition, as a result of our foreign sales and operations, we have revenues, costs, assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies. Therefore, decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar could result in significant increases in our costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could materially adversely affect our business and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. For example, our corporate headquarters in Fremont, California is located near major earthquake fault lines. In addition, our manufacturing facilities in Aguada, Puerto Rico and Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic are located in hurricane-prone areas. In the event of a major earthquake or hurricane, or other natural or manmade disaster, we could experience business interruptions, destruction of facilities and/or loss of life, any of which could materially adversely affect our business and increase our costs and expenses. Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property, as well as our ability to operate without infringing the intellectual property of others. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through trade secret laws, non-disclosure agreements, confidentiality procedures and employee disclosure and invention assignment agreements. To a lesser extent, we also protect our intellectual property through patents, trademarks and copyrights. It is possible that our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not: • prevent our competitors from independently developing similar products, duplicating our products or designing around the patents owned by us; • prevent third-party patents from having an adverse effect on our ability to do business; • provide adequate protection for our intellectual property rights; • prevent disputes with third parties regarding ownership of our intellectual property rights; • prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and know-how to third parties or into the public domain; • prevent the challenge, invalidation or circumvention of our existing patents; 15 Table of Contents • result in patents that lead to commercially viable products or provide competitive advantages for our products; and • result in issued patents and registered trademarks from any of our pending applications. If any of our issued patents are found to be invalid or if any of our patent applications are rejected, our ability to exclude competitors from making, using or selling the same or similar products as us could be compromised. We have occasionally applied for and may in the future apply for patent protection in foreign countries. The laws of foreign countries, however, may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Many U.S. companies have encountered substantial infringement problems in foreign countries. Because we conduct a substantial portion of our operations and sell some of our products overseas, we have exposure to foreign intellectual property risks. In addition, the semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. We believe that it may be necessary, from time to time, to initiate litigation against one or more third parties to preserve our intellectual property rights. From time to time, we have received, and may receive in the future, notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused other parties’ proprietary rights. Any of the foregoing events or claims could result in litigation. Such litigation, whether as plaintiff or defendant, could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is ultimately determined in our favor. In the event of an adverse result in such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, use and sale of certain products, expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing technology, discontinue the use of certain processes or obtain licenses to use the infringed technology. Product development or license negotiating would likely result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in such development or acquisition or that such licenses would be available on reasonable terms, or at all. Our indemnification obligations for the infringement by our products of the intellectual property rights of others could require us to pay substantial damages. We currently have in effect a number of agreements in which we have agreed to defend, indemnify and hold harmless our customers and suppliers from damages and costs which may arise from the infringement by our products of third-party patents, trademarks or other proprietary rights. We may periodically have to respond to claims and litigate these types of indemnification obligations. Any such indemnification claims could require us to pay substantial damages. Our insurance does not cover intellectual property infringement. We could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. Our operations and properties are subject to a variety of United States and foreign environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, management and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous materials and wastes, and remediation of releases of hazardous materials. Our failure to comply with present and future requirements, or the identification of contamination, could cause us to incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and penalties, investments to upgrade our facilities, or curtailment of operations. We believe, based on current information, that any costs we may incur relating to environmental matters in the foreseeable future will not adversely affect us. However, the identification of presently unidentified environmental conditions, more vigorous enforcement by regulatory agencies, enactment of more stringent laws and regulations, or other unanticipated events may arise in the future and give rise to material environmental liabilities and related costs which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and foreign laws and regulatory regimes. Failure to comply with governmental laws and regulations could subject us to, among other things, mandatory product recalls, penalties and legal expenses which could have an adverse effect on our business. Our business is subject to regulation by various federal and state governmental agencies. Such regulation includes the radio frequency emission regulatory activities of the Federal Communications Commission, the anti-trust regulatory activities of the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and Department of Justice, the consumer 16 Table of Contents protection laws of the FTC, the import/export regulatory activities of the Department of Commerce, the product safety regulatory activities of the Consumer Products Safety Commission, the regulatory activities of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the environmental regulatory activities of the Environmental Protection Agency, the labor regulatory activities of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and tax and other regulations by a variety of regulatory authorities in each of the areas in which we conduct business. We are also subject to regulation in other countries where we conduct business. In certain jurisdictions, such regulatory requirements may be more stringent than in the United States. We are also subject to a variety of federal and state employment and labors laws and regulations, including the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act, the Worker Adjustment and Restructuring Notification Act, or WARN Act, which requires employers to give affected employees at least 60 days notice of a plant closing or a mass layoff, and other regulations related to working conditions, wage-hour pay, overtime pay, employee benefits, antidiscrimination and termination of employment. Noncompliance with applicable regulations or requirements could subject us to investigations, sanctions, mandatory product recalls, enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, fines, damages, civil and criminal penalties, or injunctions. In addition from time to time we have received, and expect to continue to receive, correspondence from former employees terminated by us who threaten to bring claims against us alleging that we have violated one or more labor and employment regulations. In certain instances former employees have brought claims against us and we expect that we will encounter similar actions against us in the future. An adverse outcome in any such litigation could require us to pay contractual damages, compensatory damages, punitive damages, attorneys’ fees and costs. These enforcement actions could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any governmental sanctions are imposed, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal litigation, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, responding to any action will likely result in a significant diversion of management’s attention and resources and an increase in professional fees. Risks Related to our Debt Our indebtedness could impair our financial condition and harm our ability to operate our business. We are leveraged and have debt service obligations. At August 31, 2006, our total outstanding debt was $81.3 million. Also, we may incur additional debt in the future, subject to certain limitations contained in our debt instruments. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences including, but not limited to, the following: • it may limit our ability to service all of our debt obligations; • it may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes; • a significant portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on our debt, which will reduce the funds available to us for our operations; • some of our debt is and will continue to be at variable rates of interest, which may result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates; • our debt agreements contain, and any agreements to refinance our debt likely will contain, financial and restrictive covenants, and our failure to comply with them may result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us; • our level of indebtedness will increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions; and • our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry. 17 Table of Contents To service our debt, we will require a significant amount of cash and we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy these obligations or to refinance these obligations on acceptable terms, or at all. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures and research and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our historical financial results have been, and we expect our future financial results will be, subject to substantial fluctuation based upon a wide variety of factors, many of which are not within our control including, among others, those described in this section. Unfavorable changes in any of these factors could harm our operating results and our ability to generate cash to service our debt obligations. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. Also, certain of these actions would require the consent of our lenders. The terms of our financing agreements contain limitations on our ability to incur debt. We cannot assure you that any refinancing would be possible, that any assets could be sold, or, if sold, of the timing of the sales and the amount of proceeds realized from those sales, or that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all, or would be permitted under the terms of our various debt instruments then in effect. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our existing debt is subject to floating interest rates, which may cause our interest expense to increase and decrease cash available for operations and other purposes. Our senior secured floating rate notes due 2012 (the “Notes”) and our borrowings under our senior secured credit facility are subject to floating interest rates. Changes in economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, thereby increasing our interest expense and reducing our funds available for operations and other purposes. At August 31, 2006, we had $81.3 million in aggregate principal amount of our senior secured floating rate notes and may incur up to an additional $35.0 million of indebtedness under our senior secured credit facility. Assuming the senior secured credit facility is fully drawn and holding other variables constant and excluding the impact of any hedging arrangements, each 1.0% increase in interest rates on our floating interest rate borrowings would result in an annual increase in interest expense and a decrease in our cash flows and income before taxes of approximately $1.2 million per year. Restrictive covenants contained in our senior secured credit facility and the indenture relating to our senior secured floating rate notes may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take some actions and our failure to comply with such covenants, whether due to events beyond our control or otherwise, could result in an event of default which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. The indenture governing our senior secured floating rate notes contains various covenants that limit our ability to engage in certain transactions. In addition, our senior secured credit facility contains other and more restrictive covenants and will prohibit us from voluntarily prepaying certain of our other indebtedness. Our senior secured credit facility also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our senior secured credit facility and our senior secured floating rate notes. If there were an event of default under our other debt instruments, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to become due and payable immediately. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments, either upon maturity or if accelerated upon an event of default or, if we were required to repurchase the notes or any of our other debt securities upon a change of control, that we would be able to refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities. Further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under our 18 Table of Contents senior secured credit facility, the lenders under our senior secured credit facility could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness, our senior secured floating rate notes and certain other indebtedness. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt instrument could also result in an event of default under one or more of our other debt instruments. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares The price of our ordinary shares may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. The market price of the securities of technology companies has been especially volatile. Thus, the market price of our ordinary shares may be subject to wide fluctuations. If our net sales do not increase or increase less than we anticipate, or if operating or capital expenditures exceed our expectations and cannot be adjusted accordingly, or if some other event adversely affects us, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock, or our failure to meet the estimates made by securities analysts; • changes in the market valuations of other companies operating in our industry; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • a general downturn in the stock market. The market price of our stock also might decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry, even if these events do not directly affect us. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we were to become the subject of securities class action litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. We may experience significant period-to-period quarterly and annual fluctuations in our net sales and operating results, which may result in volatility in our share price. We may experience significant period-to-period fluctuations in our net sales and operating results in the future due to a number of factors and any such variations may cause our share price to fluctuate. It is likely that in some future period our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, our share price could drop significantly. A number of factors, in addition to those cited in other risk factors applicable to our business, may contribute to fluctuations in our sales and operating results, including: • the timing and volume of orders from our customers; • the rate of acceptance of our products by our customers, including the acceptance of design wins; • the demand for and life cycles of the products incorporating our products; • the rate of adoption of our products in the end markets we target; • cancellations or deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements from us or our competitors or other providers; • changes in product mix; and • the rate at which new markets emerge for products we are currently developing or for which our design expertise can be utilized to develop products for these new markets. 19 Table of Contents We are controlled by our principal investors and, as long as they own a significant percentage of our ordinary shares, our other shareholders will be unable to affect the outcome of shareholder voting. As of October 17, 2006, Texas Pacific Group, Francisco Partners and Shah Capital Partners collectively held approximately 65.4% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Pursuant to a shareholders’ agreement, Texas Pacific Group, Francisco Partners and Shah Capital Partners have the right to nominate for election a majority of our directors and the parties to the shareholders’ agreement have agreed, subject to certain minimum shareholding thresholds, to vote their ordinary shares to elect the persons so nominated to our board of directors. These rights of our principal investors do not affect the rights of our other shareholders, under our articles of association, to nominate our directors. In addition, each of Texas Pacific Group, Francisco Partners and Shah Capital Partners have agreed not to vote their ordinary shares for any amendment to our memorandum and articles of association unless the other principal investors also approve of such amendment. The shareholders’ agreement also provides that we may not take certain significant actions without the approval of Texas Pacific Group, Francisco Partners and Shah Capital Partners, acting collectively, so long as they own at least 25% of our outstanding ordinary shares in the aggregate. These actions include: • mergers, acquisitions or certain sales of assets; • any liquidation, dissolution or bankruptcy; • issuances of securities; • determination of compensation and benefits for our chief executive officer, president and chief financial officer; • appointment or dismissal of any of the chairman of our board of directors, chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, or any other executive officer in any similar capacity; • amendments to the shareholders’ agreement or exercise or waiver of rights under the shareholders’ agreement; • any increase or decrease in the number of directors that comprise our board of directors; • the declaration of dividends or other distributions or the recapitalization, reclassification, redemption, repurchase or other acquisition of any of our or our subsidiaries’ securities; • any incurrence or refinancing of indebtedness in excess of $10 million; • approval of our business plan, budget and strategy; and • modification of our long-term business strategy, the scope of our business or any of our material customer relationships. In addition, the shareholders’ agreement provides that so long as Texas Pacific Group, Francisco Partners and Shah Capital Partners own in the aggregate at least 25% of our outstanding ordinary shares, we may not enter into certain related party transactions without the consent of each of Texas Pacific Group, Francisco Partners and Shah Capital Partners. Such powers could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control, business combination or other transaction that might otherwise be beneficial to our shareholders. Our principal investors, acting collectively, also are not prohibited from selling a controlling interest in us to a third party or a participant in our industry. For additional information regarding our relationship with our principal investors, you should read the section entitled “Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions.” Our articles of association do not provide for shareholder proposals other than nominations to our board of directors and do not explicitly provide for periodic elections of our directors, each of which could negatively affect the ability of shareholders to exercise control over us. Other than nominations to our board of directors, our articles of association do not provide for a means by which shareholders can propose resolutions for consideration by the other shareholders, including for example, amendments to our articles of association. Further, our articles of association do not explicitly provide for periodic elections of our directors. Although shareholders may nominate directors in connection with our annual shareholders’ meeting, unless we receive such nominations, each of our directors will continue to serve until his death, 20 Table of Contents disability, retirement, resignation or removal (with or without cause) by the other directors or by the vote of shareholders who hold a majority of our shares in favor of a resolution proposed by our board of directors. These provisions could negatively affect the ability of shareholders to exercise control over us. Notwithstanding the absence of specific provisions for periodic election of directors by shareholders, all of our current directors will stand for election at the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. However, there is no guarantee that any director elected will stand for re-election at any time in the future or that subsequent vacancies on the Board will not be filled by appointment by other directors. Our principal investors and the persons whom they nominate to our board of directors may have interests that conflict with our interests and the interests of our other shareholders. Texas Pacific Group, Francisco Partners and Shah Capital Partners and the persons whom they nominate as directors to our board of directors may have interests that conflict with, or are divergent from, our own and those of our other shareholders. They have invested in or acquired other businesses that are involved in the semiconductor industry and may invest in or acquire others in the future. Conflicts of interest between our principal investors and us or our other shareholders may arise. Our memorandum and articles of association do not contain any provisions designed to facilitate resolution of actual or potential conflicts of interest, or to ensure that potential business opportunities that may become available to both our principal investors and us will be reserved for or made available to us. If an actual or potential conflict of interest develops involving one of our directors, our corporate governance guidelines provide that the director must report the matter immediately to our board of directors and audit committee for evaluation and appropriate resolution. Further, such director must recuse himself or herself from participation in the related discussion and abstain from voting on the matter. Nonetheless, conflicts of interest may not be resolved in a manner favorable to us or our other shareholders. In addition, our principal investors’ significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our ordinary shares because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning shares in companies with controlling shareholders. Future sales of shares could depress our share price. If our existing shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline. We are a party to a shareholders’ agreement that provides for registration rights with respect to the 39,326,283 of our ordinary shares that are held by certain shareholders, including Texas Pacific Group, Francisco Partners and Shah Capital Partners. Registration of the sale of the ordinary shares held by these principal investors would permit their sale into the market immediately. If our principal investors sell a large number of shares, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline, as these sales may be viewed by the public as an indication of an upcoming or recently occurring shortfall in the financial performance of our company. Moreover, the perception in the public market that these investors might sell our ordinary shares could depress the market price of the ordinary shares. Additionally, we may sell or issue additional shares of ordinary shares in subsequent public offerings or in connection with acquisitions, which will result in additional dilution and may adversely affect market prices for our ordinary shares. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit your opportunity to sell your shares at a premium. Our memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change of control transactions, including, among other things, provisions that restrict the ability of our shareholders to call meetings, make shareholder proposals and provisions that authorize our board of directors, without action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares and to issue additional ordinary shares. These provisions could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us in a tender offer or similar transactions, even if such transaction would benefit our shareholders. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because the rights of shareholders under Cayman Islands law differ from those under U.S. law, you may have difficulty protecting your shareholder rights. We are a company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by 21 Table of Contents the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and some states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; or • to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 