Item 1A. Risk Factors - Continued failure to comply with those requirements. In 2010, we have done business and owned assets in West Virginia, Virginia, Pennsylvania, California, Oklahoma, Kansas, New Mexico, Illinois, Indiana, Arkansas, Colorado, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Mississippi, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota and Texas. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may do business or own assets in other states in the future. It is the responsibility of each unitholder to file all U.S. federal, state and local tax returns that may be required of such unitholder. Changes to current federal tax laws may affect unitholders’ ability to take certain tax deductions. Substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws have been proposed that, if adopted, would affect, among other things, the ability to take certain operations-related deductions, including deductions for intangible drilling and percentage depletion and deductions for U.S. production activities. Other proposed changes may affect our ability to remain taxable as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any changes, or other proposals to such laws, ultimately will be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our units. Derivatives legislation enacted in 2010 could have an adverse impact on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. New comprehensive financial reform legislation was signed into law by the President on July 21, 2010. The legislation calls for the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) to regulate certain markets for over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivative products. Currently, rulemakings are pending at the CFTC, the product of which would be rules that implement the mandates in the new legislation to cause significant portions of derivatives to clear through clearinghouses. The significance of the effect on our business will depend in part on whether we are determined to be a major swap participant or swap dealer or a qualifying end-user, as those terms are defined in the final rules. Depending on those determinations, we may be required to comply with margin requirement s and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our derivatives activities. The CFTC has proposed regulations that, if adopted, may provide to us the certainty that we will not be required to comply with margin requirements or clearing requirements, but the timing of any adoption of any such regulations, and their scope, are uncertain. Even if we are not deemed a major swap participant or swap dealer, the rules could impose burdens on market participants to such an extent that liquidity in the bilateral OTC derivative market decreases substantially. The legislation may also require counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to separate entities, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparties. The new legislation and any new regulations, including determinations with respect to the applicability of margin requirements and other trading structures, could significantly i ncrease the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures and to generate sufficient cash flow to pay quarterly distributions at the current levels or at all. Our revenues could be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material, adverse effect on us, our financial condition, and our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 