Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this report in evaluating us and our Common Stock and other securities. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In that case, the trading price of our Common Stock and other securities also could be adversely affected. We make various statements in this section, which constitute “forward-looking statements.” See “Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to the Acquisition of Ironman. IGC may experience difficulty transferring money from India and China to the U.S. Chinese and Indian currencies are not freely convertible into other currencies. Therefore, profits made in China or in India may have to be reinvested in those countries. While it is well reported in the news that China is seeking to make its currency convertible by 2015, there is no certainty that this will occur in the short-term. IGC has engaged legal counsel in India and China to advise on paths to move money between those countries and the U.S. The currently available methodologies include the sale of stock, a dividend payment or transfer pricing that involves USA overhead expenses paid out of the Chinese or Indian companies. Iron Ore Exports from India may be reduced by one-third in 2012 and beyond. Iron ore exports from India, usually the world's third biggest supplier of the ingredient for steel, could fall a third into 2012. India's iron ore exports were already down 25 percent in April to October 2011 because of stalled shipments arising from a legal dispute in Karnataka, India and because of high transport costs. Karnataka, India normally accounts for a quarter of India’s exports. Most of India's iron ore exports go to China, which has the world's largest steel industry. India exported about half of China’s annual production until Karnataka introduced a ban on shipments in July 2010. IGC is aware of the export issues in Karnataka, India, which could cause (a) logistics pricing, (b) export bans similar to the Karnataka ban on exports elsewhere in India, and (c) increased in the export duty. If one or more of these risks materialize, IGC’s revenues could be adversely affected. IGC believes that low-grade ore remains available in other parts of India including both Orissa and Goa. Further, IGC’s established presence in China and India will facilitate its ability to export ore from India. Further, IGC is exploring alternative arrangements for the supply of low grade ore from countries other than India, like Mongolia and the Philippines. 12 Table of Contents The failure to integrate Ironman’s business and operations successfully in the expected timeframe may adversely affect the combined company’s future results. IGC believes that its acquisition of Ironman will result in certain benefits, synergies and operational efficiencies. However, to realize these anticipated benefits, the businesses of IGC and Ironman must be successfully combined. The success of the acquisition will depend on the combined company’s ability to realize these anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of IGC and Ironman. The combined company may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition for a variety of reasons, including: • failure to successfully manage relationships with customers, distributors and suppliers; • revenue attrition in excess of anticipated levels; • failure to leverage the increased scale of the combined company quickly and effectively; • potential difficulties integrating and harmonizing financial reporting systems; • loss of one or more key employees; • failure to effectively coordinate sales and marketing efforts to communicate the capabilities of the combined company; and • failure to combine product and services offerings quickly and effectively. The acquisition of Ironman has closed; however, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses or delays. If the combined company is not able to integrate Ironman’s business and operations successfully, or if there are delays in combining the businesses, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. IGC’s management lack’s experience in the iron ore industry. IGC’s current officers and directors do not have experience operating a business in China and lack direct experience in the iron ore industry. IGC believes that the officers and directors of HK Ironman and PRC Ironman will remain with the companies at least one year following the closing of the Acquisition to facilitate the transition, though there is no guaranty of this result. The success of the acquisition of HK Ironman (the “Acquisition”) will depend in part on the ability of the combined company following the completion of the Acquisition to realize the anticipated benefits, including annual net operating synergies. Following the Acquisition, the size of the combined company’s business will be significantly larger than the current business of IGC. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose challenges for our management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. IGC cannot assure you that the combined company will be successful or that the combined company will realize the expected operating efficiencies, annual net operating synergies, revenue enhancements and other benefits currently anticipated resulting from the Acquisition. The failure to manage successfully the challenges presented after an Acquisition may result in the Company’s failure to achieve some of all of the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition. Consequently, our operations, earnings and ultimate financial success may suffer harm as a result. Ironman has limited business insurance coverage. Insurance companies in China currently do not offer as extensive array of insurance products as insurance companies do in the U.S. We do not have any business liability or disruption insurance to cover our operations. Any uninsured occurrence of business disruption may result in our incurring substantial costs, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to operate effectively could be impaired if we lose key personnel or if we fail to attract qualified personnel. We are managing our business, following the Acquisition, through a number of key personnel. The loss of any of these key officers could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, as business develops and expands, we believe that our future success will depend greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. No assurance can be given that key personnel will continue to be employed by us or that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Accordingly, if we are not able to retain these officers and/or personnel, or effectively fill vacancies created by departing key persons, our business may be impaired. The lack of key man insurance on any of these important personnel will also have an adverse effect on our financial conditions in case of the death of any of these important key personnel. 13 Table of Contents Material weaknesses in our internal controls and financial reporting, and our lack of a CFO at Ironman with sufficient U.S. GAAP experience may limit our ability to prevent or detect financial misstatements or omissions. As a result, our financial reports may not always comply with U.S. GAAP and the Accounting Standards Codification. Any material weakness, misstatement or omission in our financial statements will negatively affect the market, and price of our stock which could result in significant loss to our investors. None of the members of Ironman has experience managing and operating a public company and they rely in many instances on the professional experience and advice of third parties. While we are obligated to hire a qualified chief financial officer to enable us to meet our ongoing reporting obligations, we do not currently have a CFO with any significant U.S. GAAP experience for now with Ironman. Our strategy to supplement the gap in PCAOB, USGAAP, SEC reporting knowledge or experience is to use the advisory services of a big four accounting firm. Although we are actively seeking a new CFO, qualified individuals are often difficult to find, or the individual may not have all of the qualifications that we require. Therefore, we may experience “weakness” and potential problems in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. This “weakness” also includes a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal controls over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Management has identified a weakness relating to the Company not having sufficient experienced personnel with the requisite technical skills and working knowledge of the application of U.S. GAAP. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are also subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. This may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls, which could affect the reliability of our financial statements and prevent us from complying with SEC rules and regulations and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to comply or adequately comply with any laws, rules, or regulations applicable to our business may result in fines or regulatory actions, which may materially adversely affect our business, results of operation, or financial condition and could result in delays in achieving either the effectiveness of a registration statement or the development of an active and liquid trading market for our Common Stock. To the extent that the market place perceives that we do not have a strong financial staff and financial controls, the market for and price of our stock may be impaired. China does not allow the PCAOB to inspect the working papers of the Chinese auditor. Under the current rules in China, the PCAOB is not allowed to inspect the audit work papers of auditors in China. From the current publicly available information we believe the PCAOB is working with the Chinese authorities to resolve this issue. There is no time frame as to when this issue will be resolved. In order to mitigate this potential issue, we have hired a firm in China to carry out the audit of HK Ironman and its subsidiary PRC Ironman under USGAAP and PCAOB Standards. In addition the principal auditor takes an active role in reviewing the work of the Chinese auditor. However, despite our efforts to set a higher standard, this issue could affect the liquidity of IGC shares, as some USA fund managers may be reluctant to invest in our shares because the PCAOB has limited jurisdiction over auditors in China. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure. The PRC government may determine that HK Ironman’s ownership of PRC Ironman or PRC Ironman’s structure is not in compliance with applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations. If so, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion with respect to actions that could be taken in dealing with such non-compliance. Any of these actions could adversely affect our ability to manage, operate and gain the financial benefits of PRC Ironman, which would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. IGC is conducting business in China through its subsidiary, PRC Ironman, a Sino-Foreign Equity Joint Venture (“EJV”), which is a corporation jointly invested and incorporated by foreign companies, other economic organizations or persons and Chinese companies or other economic organizations. An EJV typically is established by joint contribution, joint operation of all parties to the joint venture, and sharing of risk, profits and losses in proportion to their respective contributions towards the registered capital. In the opinion of Gaopeng & Partners, our PRC legal counsel, PRC Ironman’s business is a foreign investment that is permitted in China. Chinese foreign investment policies classify various industries into four groups, which are encouraged, permitted, restricted and prohibited for foreign investment. Mining and processing of ferruginous sandstone and sale of refined iron powder is not in either the encouraged, restricted or prohibited groups explicitly stipulated by the Catalogue of Industries Guiding Foreign Investment, so such business is foreign investment permitted. HK Ironman entered into a share transfer agreement to purchase 95% shares of PRC Ironman from Mr. Zhang Hua and Mr. XU Jianjun in January 2011. On April 28, 2011, the Department of Commerce of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region approved the share purchase. On the same day, HK Ironman was granted the Certificate of Approval for Establishment of Enterprises with Investment of Taiwan, Hong Kong, Macao and Overseas Chinese in the People’s Republic of China (Approval No. Shang Wai Zi Meng Wai Zi Shen 2011- 0023). Before the closing of the Acquisition, 95% shares of PRC Ironman was held by HK Ironman and 5% was held by Mr. Zhang Hua. 14 Table of Contents Our PRC legal counsel that there are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current and future PRC laws and regulations has advised us. If PRC Ironman were for any reason determined to be in breach of any future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such breach, including: · imposing economic penalties: · discontinuing or restricting the operations of PRC Ironman; · imposing conditions or requirements with respect to HK Ironman or PRC Ironman with which HK Ironman or PRC Ironman may not be able to comply; · requiring our company to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; · taking other regulatory or enforcement actions that could adversely affect our company’s business; and · revoking the business licenses and/or the licenses or certificates of PRC Ironman. Any of these actions could adversely affect our ability to manage, operate and gain the financial benefits of PRC Ironman, which would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on the approval certificates and business licenses held by HK Ironman and PRC Ironman. HK Ironman and PRC Ironman’s failure to renew its licenses and certificates when their terms expire with substantially similar terms as the ones it currently holds could result in our inability to operate our business. We operate our business in China in reliance on approval certificates, business license and other requisite licenses held by HK Ironman and PRC Ironman. PRC Ironman has received a license, to operate the beneficiation plants on a specific acreage of land in Inner Mongolia through August 2018. In addition, PRC has a business license, which was amended on November 28, 2011 to reflect PRC Ironman’s new ownership by HK Ironman, effective January 2011. The business license is valid through January 7, 2028. There is no assurance that HK Ironman will be able to renew its licenses and certificates in the future when their terms expire with substantially similar terms as the ones they currently hold. HK Ironman’s failure to renew its licenses and certificates when their terms expire with substantially similar terms as the ones it currently holds could result in our inability to operate our business. Our future operating results and the market price of our Common Stock could be materially adversely affected if we are required to write down the carrying value of goodwill and investment associated with any of our businesses in the future. We review our goodwill balance and investments for impairment on at least an annual basis through the application of a fair value-based test. Our estimate of fair value is based primarily on projected future results and cash flows and other assumptions. In addition, we review long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. In the future, if our projected discounted cash flows or the recoverable value of the underlying assets associated with our businesses do not exceed the carrying value of their net assets, we may be required to record write-downs of the carrying value of other long-lived assets associated with our businesses. If that is the case, then our operating results and the market price of our Common Stock may be adversely affected. Our subsidiaries may become involved in litigation in the future. Our construction and aggregate contracts are subject to the jurisdiction of the Indian courts. Our iron ore contracts frequently are subject to the jurisdiction of other foreign countries. Our Chinese operations are subject to Chinese courts. The expenses of litigation and any judgments against us could have an adverse effect on us. Risks Associated with Doing Business in India and China. Any downgrading of China’s or India’s debt rating by an international rating agency, or an increase in interest rates in China or India, could adversely affect our ability to generate or use Letters of Credit. The iron ore trading business relies heavily on Letters of Credit. Ironman is attempting to establish a record of execution that can eventually lead to back-to-back Letters of Credit, which would greatly enhance our business and help us grow rapidly. Back-to-back Letters of Credit are used primarily in international transactions, with the first Letter of Credit serving as collateral for the second. Any adverse revisions to China’s or India’s credit ratings for domestic and international debt by international rating agencies as well as an increase in interest rates or a tightening of credit may adversely affect our ability to finance growth through back-to-back Letters of Credit, which could lead to a decrease in our growth rate, adversely affecting our stock price. 15 Table of Contents A change in government policy, a downturn in the global, Chinese or Indian economy or a natural disaster could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. IGC’s and Ironman’s business depends on the growth of infrastructure in Asia as well as other parts of the world and not just in India and China. However, a global recession that causes a slowdown of infrastructure spending could reduce the demand for steel and consequently iron ore adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations and future prospects. Political, economic, social and other factors in China may adversely affect business. Our results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected by economic, political and legal developments in China. Since the late 1970s, the Chinese government has been reforming its economic system. These policies and measures may from time to time be modified or revised. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. Furthermore, while the Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources, some of these measures may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to Ironman. The processing unit operated by Ironman is subject to central, provincial, local and municipal regulation and licensing in China. Compliance with such regulations and licensing can be expected to be a time-consuming, expensive process resulting in expenses which could adversely affect our margins. Returns on investment in Chinese and Indian companies may be decreased by withholding and other taxes. Our investment in China and India may incur tax risk unique to investment in China, India and in developing economies in general. Income that might otherwise not be subject to withholding of local income tax under normal international conventions may be subject to withholding of Chinese and/or Indian income tax. Under treaties with India and under local Indian income tax law, income is generally sourced in India and subject to Indian tax if paid from India. This is true whether or not the services or the earning of the income would normally be considered as being from sources outside India in other contexts. Additionally, proof of payment of withholding taxes may be required as part of the remittance procedure. Any withholding taxes paid by us on income from our investments in China and/or India may or may not be creditable on our income tax returns. We may also incur taxes in India on any profits that we may choose to distribute as dividends to our shareholders. We intend to avail ourselves of transfer pricing rules and minimize any Chinese and/or Indian withholding tax or local taxes. However, there is no assurance that the Chinese and/or the Indian tax authorities will always recognize such rules in its applications. Our Chinese subsidiary is held by a Hong Kong based subsidiary and our Indian subsidiaries are held by a subsidiary in Mauritius, in as effort to create a tax efficient structure. Our industry depends on the stability of policies and the political situation in India and China and a change in policy could adversely affect our business. The role of the Indian central and state governments in the Indian economy on producers, consumers and regulators has remained significant over the years. Since 1991, the Government of India has pursued policies of economic liberalization, including significantly relaxing restrictions on the private sector. We cannot assure you that these liberalization policies will continue under the present or under newly elected governments. Protests against privatization could slow down the pace of liberalization and deregulation. The rate of economic liberalization could change, and specific laws and policies affecting companies in the infrastructure sector in India, foreign investment, currency exchange rates and other matters affecting our business could change as well. A significant change in India’s economic liberalization and deregulation policies could disrupt business and economic conditions in India and thereby affect our business. Similarly, the Chinese have been reforming their economic system since the 1970s. An adverse change in the overall economic growth in China or adverse changes to import laws or even an attempt by the government to curtail steel production in China may lead to an adverse impact on our business. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war within India or involving India and other countries could adversely affect the financial markets and our business. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence could have the direct effect of destroying our plants and property causing a loss and interruption of business. According to the CIA 2011 World Factbook, religious and border disputes persist in India and remain pressing problems. For example, India has from time to time experienced civil unrest and hostilities with Pakistan and other neighboring countries. The longstanding dispute with Pakistan over the border Indian states of Jammu and Kashmir, a majority of whose populations are Muslim, remains unresolved. While India and Pakistan resumed formal peace talks, there are no guarantees that these will be successful. In addition, India continues to struggle with insurgent attacks from Maoist- Naxalite groups. If the Indian government is unable to control the violence and disruption associated with these insurgencies, then the result could be the destabilization of the economy, and, consequently, an adverse effect on our business. Since early 2003, there have also been military hostilities and civil unrest in Afghanistan, in Iraq, and more recently in Pakistan and other Asian countries. These events could adversely affect the Indian economy, and, as a result, negatively affect our business. 16 Table of Contents While we may have insurance to cover some of these risks and can file claims against the Indian contracting agencies, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to collect in a timely manner. Further, India has a fairly active insurgency and a fairly active communist following. Any serious uprising from these groups could delay our roadwork and disrupt our business. Terrorist attacks, insurgencies, or other threats of violence could slow down road building activity and the production of iron ore and rock aggregate, thereby adversely affecting our business. Exchange controls that exist in India may limit our ability to utilize our cash flow effectively following a business combination. We are subject to India’s rules and regulations on currency conversion. In India, the Foreign Exchange Management Act, FEMA, regulates the conversion of the Indian rupee into foreign currencies. However, as according to the Reserve Bank of India, comprehensive amendments have been made to FEMA to support the government’s policy for economic liberalization. Companies are now permitted to operate in India without any special restrictions, effectively placing them on a par with wholly-owned Indian companies. In addition, foreign exchange controls have been substantially relaxed. Notwithstanding these changes, the Indian foreign exchange market is not yet fully developed and we cannot assure that the Indian authorities will not revert back to regulating companies and imposing new restrictions on the convertibility of the Indian rupee. Any future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to use our cash flow to fund operations outside of India. Changes in the exchange rate of the Indian rupee may negatively influence our revenues and expenses. In fiscal 2012 our operations were primarily located in India and in fiscal 2013 our operations will be in India and China. We receive payment in Indian rupees for work in India in RMB for the work in China. We report our financial statements in U.S. dollars. To the extent that there is a decrease in the exchange rate of Indian rupees relative to U.S. dollars, such a decrease could have a material impact on our operating results or financial condition. U.S.-listed companies with business operations in China have recently come under increased scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity. Since 2010, a number of U.S. publicly listed companies with substantial operations in China have been the subject of intense scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity by investors, financial commentators and regulatory agencies, such as the SEC and the Justice Department resulting in a loss of share value. Much of the scrutiny and negative publicity has centered around accounting weaknesses, inadequate corporate governance and, in some cases, allegations of fraud. As a result of such scrutiny and negative publicity, the stock prices of most U.S. publicly listed companies with operations in China have sharply decreased in recent months. Because the Chinese judiciary will determine the scope and enforcement under Chinese agreements, we may be unable to enforce our rights inside and outside of China. HK Ironman operates under the laws of Hong Kong and PRC Ironman, its subsidiary, operates under the laws of PRC. Substantially all of the assets of Ironman are located in China and the majority of its officers and directors and the experts named in this report are outside the U.S. It is therefore unlikely that service of process on either HK Ironman or PRC Ironman or their officers and directors can be obtained within the U.S. Further, it may be difficult to enforce in China a judgment obtained in the U.S. These difficulties stem from the lack of official judicial arrangements between the U.S. and China, which means that judgments of U.S. courts will not be necessarily enforced in China without review and re-litigation of the merits of their claims. There is doubt as to the enforceability in China of actions to enforce judgments of U.S. courts arising out of or based on ownership of the securities of HK Ironman or PRC Ironman, including judgments arising out of or based on civil liability provisions of U.S. federal or state securities laws. There is also doubt whether the Chinese courts would enforce, in original actions, judgments against HK Ironman or PRC Ironman or the persons mentioned above predicated solely based upon U.S. securities laws. Original actions may be brought in China or Hong Kong against these parties only if the actions are not required to be arbitrated by Chinese law and only if the facts alleged in the complaint give rise to a cause of action under Chinese law, in which event, a Chinese court may award monetary damages. Risk Related to Our Securities. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our Common Stock, then the price of our Common Stock could decline. The trading market for our Common Stock will rely in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about our business and us. We do not control these analysts. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about our business or us. 17 Table of Contents We incur costs as a result of operating as a public company. Our management is required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. Because we report in U.S. GAAP, we may experience delays in closing our books and records in India and China, and delays in the preparation of financial statements and related disclosures. As part of a public company with substantial operations, we are experiencing an increase in legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) and new rules implemented by the SEC and the NYSE MKT (NYSE Amex) have imposed various requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. We have completed the testing of internal controls in all our subsidiaries in India. We expect to carry out the evaluations and install improved systems and processes as required in both India and China. However, we cannot be certain as to the timing or completion of the remediation actions, or their impact on our operations. Furthermore, it is difficult to hire personnel in India and China who are familiar with U.S. GAAP. We have hired several competent consultants to help review our internal reporting and disclosures, and to train our Indian and Chinese staff in SEC reporting and U.S. GAAP. We do not foresee a problem other than the time required to complete the training adequately and to implement the improved processes. Compliance with Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could adversely affect our competitive position. Failure to comply could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits U.S. public companies from engaging in bribery of or other prohibited payments to foreign officials to obtain or retain business. While we will take precautions to educate the employees of our subsidiaries of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, there can be no assurance that our employees or agents of IGC or our subsidiaries will not engage in such conduct, for which we might be held responsible. We could suffer penalties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may issue additional shares of our capital stock, including through convertible debt securities, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and possibly cause a change in control of our ownership. Our certificate of incorporation authorize the issuance of up to 150,000,000 shares of Common Stock, par value $0.0001 per share and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share. Currently, there are approximately 74,003,461 authorized but unissued shares of our Common Stock available for issuance after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and shares and options authorized for issuance under our 2008 Omnibus Incentive Plan. It is also after the reservation for conversion of all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. We issued an aggregate of 6,942,693 shares of our Common Stock in connection with a private placement of debt securities and exchange of previously issued debt securities for new debt securities and Common Stock in October 2009, November 2010, December 2010, February 2011, March 2011 and March 2012, and may engage in similar private placements in the future. In addition, we may from time to time sell shares in the market. The issuance of additional shares of our Common Stock including the conversion of any debt securities may: · Significantly reduce the equity interest of our existing shareholders. · Adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Common Stock, warrants or units. We may issue notes or other debt securities, which may adversely affect our leverage and financial condition. During the 2009 and 2010 fiscal years, we sold an aggregate $4,000,000 in private placements of debt securities and may engage in similar private placements in the future. In the current year, we have modified the terms of the debt arrangement to extend the repayment under the agreements and as a consideration for this extension issued equity shares to the debt holders. The incurrence of this debt and any subsequent modifications to the terms may: · lead to default if our operating revenues are insufficient to pay our debt obligations; · cause an acceleration of our obligations to repay the debt even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach the covenants contained in the terms of the debt documents; · create an obligation to immediately repay all principal and accrued interest, if any, upon demand to the extent any debt securities are payable on demand; · hinder our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, to the extent any debt securities contain covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such securities are outstanding, or to the extent our existing leverage discourages other potential investors; and · potentially lead to a dilution of our ownership if there are any subsequent issues of equity shares as consideration for further modifications or settlements. 18 Table of Contents The Company has 12,972,532 warrants outstanding, the exercise of which could dilute the number of shares outstanding. Upon the occurrence of the exercise of our outstanding warrants, the Company will receive the exercise price unless the exercise is cashless. In either case, such an exercise will also increase the number of shares outstanding. This may adversely affect the share price, as the supply of shares eligible for sale in the public market will increase. The increased number of shares offered for sale in the public market may exceed the public demand to buy shares at a given market price resulting in the market price adjusting downward. The Company in its sole discretion has the right to decrease the exercise price of the warrants. Although we are required to use our best efforts to have an effective registration statement covering the issuance of the shares underlying the public warrants at the time that our warrant holders exercise their public warrants, we cannot guarantee that a registration statement will be declared effective, in which case our warrant holders may not be able to exercise our public warrants and such warrants may expire worthless. We have issued warrants to purchase our Common Stock in three public offerings: our initial public offering in March 2006, a registered direct offering in September 2009 and a public offering in December 2010. In the absence of an applicable exemption, holders of warrants issued in our public offerings will be able to exercise the warrants only if a current registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) relating to the shares of our Common Stock underlying the warrants is then effective. Although we have undertaken in the respective warrant agreements relating to such warrants, and therefore have a contractual obligation, to use our best efforts to maintain a current registration statement covering the shares underlying the public warrants to the extent required by federal securities laws, and we intend to comply with such undertaking as soon as possible. We currently have an effective registration statement and all outstanding warrants are registered. In the future, if we fail to comply with our contractual obligations, we could be liable to the holders of the warrants. In no event shall we be liable for, or any registered holder of any warrant be entitled to receive, (a) physical settlement in securities unless the conditions and requirements set forth in the warrant agreement have been satisfied, or (b) any net-cash settlement or other consideration in lieu of physical settlement in securities (provided that the holders of the warrants issued in our September 2009 and December 2010 offerings are entitled to cash payments if we fail to deliver shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants in a timely fashion). The value of the public warrants may be greatly reduced if a registration statement covering the shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not kept current. Such warrants may even expire worthless. The warrants issued in our initial public offering that were to expire on March 3, 2011, now expire on March 8, 2013 since we exercised our right to extend the terms of those warrants. The warrants issued in our September 2009 and December 2010 offerings expire on September 18, 2012 and December 8, 2017 respectively. The outstanding warrants issued in our September 2009 and December 2010 offerings, currently exercisable for an aggregate of 1,117,410 shares of Common Stock, give the holders of such warrants the right to exercise the warrants on a cashless basis if at the time of exercise there is not an effective registration statement available for the issuance of the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants. We would not receive any proceeds from the cashless exercise of the warrants. With respect to any warrants sold by us in private placements pursuant to an exemption from registration requirements under the federal securities laws, the holders of the warrants sold in such private placements would be able to exercise their warrants even if, at the time of exercise, a prospectus relating to the Common Stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants is not current. As a result, the holders of the warrants purchased in the private placements would not have any material restrictions with respect to the exercise of their warrants. Additional capital may be costly or difficult to obtain. Additional capital, whether through the offering of equity or debt securities, may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain required additional capital, we may have to curtail our growth plans or cut back on existing business. Furthermore, we may not be able to continue operating if we do not generate sufficient revenues from operations needed to stay in business. We may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, securities law compliance fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. In addition, to the extent that we are unable to provide timely reporting of our financial results it may further impair our ability to raise capital. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we issue, such as, convertible notes and warrants, which may adversely impact our financial condition. We do not currently intend to pay dividends, which may limit the return on your investment in us. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. 19 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with the NYSE MKT (NYSE Amex) listing requirements, we could be delisted from the NYSE equities market. Any such delisting could potentially limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. If we fail to comply with the listing requirements of the NYSE MKT (former NYSE Amex), we could be delisted from the NYSE equities market. If at any time in the future, the NYSE MKT delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant adverse consequences, including a: · limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · determination that our Common Stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our Common Stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our Common Stock; · limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and · decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future If our Common Stock were delisted and determined to be a “penny stock,” a broker-dealer may find it more difficult to trade our Common Stock and an investor may find it more difficult to acquire or dispose of our Common Stock in the secondary market. If our Common Stock were removed from listing with the NYSE MKT (NYSE Amex), it may be subject to the so-called “penny stock” rules. The SEC has adopted regulations that define a penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price per share of less than $5.00, subject to certain exceptions, such as any securities listed on a national securities exchange. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers, subject to certain exceptions. If our Common Stock were delisted and determined to be a penny stock, a broker-dealer may find it more difficult to trade our Common Stock and an investor may find it more difficult to acquire or dispose of our Common Stock on the secondary market. Investors in penny stocks should be prepared for the possibility that they may lose their whole investment. Risks Associated With Our Industry and Specifically the Iron Ore Business. We are subject to numerous risks and hazards associated with the mining industry. Our mining operations are subject to a number of risks and hazards including: · industrial accidents; · unusual or unexpected geologic formations; · explosive rock failures; and · flooding and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions. Such risks could result in a variety of issues that could affect our operations, such as damage to or destruction of mineral properties or production facilities, environmental damage, delays in our mining operations, personal injury or death, monetary losses and possible legal liability. No assurance can be given that we will be able to avoid any or all of the hazards discussed above and any such occurrence may substantially affect our business and financial operations. Our operations are highly susceptible to hazardous weather conditions and seasonal weather conditions. Both India, specifically the east and west coasts where our supply chains are located, and northeastern China where Ironman’s processing chain is located, potentially experience severe weather conditions. Severe weather conditions could cause our supply chain and/or processing chain to temporarily curtail or stop operations materially affecting our quarterly results. During periods of curtailed activity due to adverse weather conditions, our operations in both countries may continue to incur operating expenses, reducing profitability. Certain weather conditions may affect mining operations. The Ironman beneficiation plant is located in a region with a typical subtropical climate characterized mainly by high precipitation and high evaporation and humid conditions. The rainy season occurs from May to August of each year, which may make the plant inaccessible or unusable during such rainy season due to flooding caused by insufficient drainage necessary to release the excess water that has accumulated. During the last rainy season there was a particularly rainy season marked by much flooding in China and a halt in business operations for several months. As such, mining operation may be interrupted due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions experienced during such rainy season. 20 Table of Contents We may not be able to obtain necessary raw materials at competitive price and this may negatively affect our profits. On the supply side, including procuring sufficient raw materials, we may have difficulties procuring low-grade iron ore at specific sizes at competitive prices. In the event we are unable to secure steady suppliers, it could negatively affect our profitability. The processing plant in China requires water for the wet separation. While there is currently and for the foreseeable future an adequate supply of water, any discrepancy with the supply of water could lead to curtailing operations, which could affect our profitability. Likewise, construction contracts are primarily dependent on adequate and timely supply of raw materials, such as cement, steel and aggregates, at competitive prices. As the demand from competing larger and well-established material supply firms increases for procuring raw materials, we could face a disproportionate increase in the price of raw materials that may negatively impact our profitability. The cost of logistics and shipping between India and China may reduce our income. Our process involves moving ore from mine heads to crushers and then to the port for shipping. We rely on third parties to provide a number of important services in connection with our business, and any disruption in these services could materially affect our business. For example, we depend on trucking companies to move the ore. A surge in demand for ore and, in general, other commodities, could increase the cost of domestic logistic affecting our profitability. Additionally, we depend on shipping agencies to move ore from India to China and an increase in the price of shipping could adversely affect our profitability. Some of our business is dependent on contracts awarded by the Indian government and its agencies. The construction business is dependent on central and state Indian government budget allocations to the infrastructure sector. We derive the bulk of our construction revenue from contracts awarded by the Indian central and state governments and their agencies. If there are delays in payments by the government, our working capital requirements could increase. Our materials business is dependent on private sector companies, which could be affected by government delays, indirectly burdening our business. Assessment of penalties for time overruns and lack of quality may adversely affect our economic performance. TBL executes construction contracts primarily in the roads and infrastructure development sectors. TBL typically enters into high value contracts for these activities, which impose penalties if the contracts are not executed in a timely manner. If TBL is unable to meet the performance criteria prescribed by the contracts, then levied penalties may adversely affect our financial performance. Furthermore, we may pay demurrage for some of our iron ore delivery contracts, if ore is not loaded onto ships in the time prescribed by delivery contracts. The payment of demurrage may adversely affect our financial performance. The ore shipped by us from India is shipped with a quality certificate from a leading company. However, the buyers in China also perform quality measurements, which could differ from the initial quality certificate. This may result in negative price adjustments affecting our profit margins. The rock aggregate business is less sensitive to time overruns and quality. Our business is dependent on continuing relationships with clients and strategic partners. Our business requires developing and maintaining strategic alliances with contractors that undertake turnkey contracts for infrastructure development projects and with government organizations. The business and our results could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain continuing relationships and pre-qualified status with key clients and strategic partners. We face competition in the infrastructure industry. The Indian real estate and infrastructure industries, including the mining industries, are increasingly attracting foreign capital. We currently have competition from international and domestic companies that operate at the national level. Smaller localized contractors and companies are also competing in their respective regions. If we are unable to offer competitive prices and obtain contracts, there could be a significant reduction in our revenue. Mining is inherently dangerous and subject to conditions or events beyond our control, and any operating hazards could have a material adverse effect on our business. During the course of mining activities, we use dangerous materials and there is no assurance that accidents will not occur. Should we be held liable for any such accident, we may be subject to penalties, and possible criminal proceedings may be brought against us by our employees, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 21 Table of Contents PRC Ironman’s mining operations could have material safety concerns, which may result in accidents and in turn negatively affect our revenue. PRC Ironman’s mining operations could have safety issues in its iron ore mine or beneficiation plants including, in part, inadequate natural ventilation, likelihood of flooding in the tunnels, etc. Accidents and employee’s injury arising from any safety issues may cause suspension or discontinuance of our mining operation and thus negatively affect our revenue. Mining exploitation activities are labor intensive and employ low levels of mechanization, which may result in inefficiency and impose greater safety and health hazards concern. Ironman used rudimentary mining methods and low levels of mechanization since the beginning of its mining operation. The labor-intensive and low-mechanization mining method its uses in its mining operations results in inefficient operation. The relatively large number of mining workers exposed to dust, noise, heat and vibration caused by its mining methods may increase the possibility of accidents and health hazards. We may suffer losses resulting from unexpected accidents. Like other mining companies, our operations may suffer from structural issues such as unusual or unexpected geologic formations or explosive rock failures that may result in accidents that cause property damage and possible personal injuries. We can give no assurance that industry-related accidents will not occur in the future. We do not maintain flood or other property insurance covering our properties, equipment, or inventories. Any losses and/or liabilities we incur due to unexpected property damage or personal injury could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Restrictive regulation on the export of ore may adversely affect our business. Restrictive regulation on the export of ore from India or the import of ore into China may adversely affect our profitability. India restricts the export of high quality ore to government agencies. China restricts the import of low quality ore to specific agents. In the event these regulations change and become even more restrictive, our profitability could be adversely affected. Strikes, civil unrest, and tensions between India and China could have an impact on our business. The supply chain for ore is heavily dependent on transportation. A strike by truck drivers could adversely affect our business. The processing plant in China is located in the province of Inner Mongolia and any civil unrest in that area, or other parts of China, could disrupt the logistics and processing chain adversely affecting our business. India and China have had their share of disputes in the past 60 years. India and China had ancient friendly ties going back to the silk route. However, beginning in the 1950s the relationship became strained largely over Tibet and issues over borders. In 1962, China attacked India along its border, coinciding with the Cuban missile crisis that preoccupied the super powers U.S., Russia and the UK. The war ended with a complete withdrawal that coincided with the arrival of the U.S. air force. However, while there can be no guarantee that hostilities may again reappear between the two countries, much has changed since the 1962 war. Both India and China are now nuclear powers, underpinning the notion of Mutually Assured Destruction, and both are strategic partners with the U.S. Both countries took part in the first ever BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and China) Summit, in June 2011. Both countries have had thirteen rounds of border talks and the recent one in August 2011, ended with both nations discussing raising their strategic partnership to a higher level. In 2008-2009 India’s largest trading partner was China followed by the U.S. and the United Arab Emirates. If hostilities between the two countries reappear, our business may be adversely affected. Currency fluctuations may reduce our profitability. Iron ore is traded in USD. However, the supply side, including logistics in India, is settled in Indian rupees (INR). On the other hand, the expenses for processing the ore in China are all met in RMB. Therefore, three currencies are involved in a typical trade. Fluctuations of one currency relative to the others may adversely affect our profit margins. 22 Table of Contents Environmental regulations could adversely affect Ironman’s business. The process of digging ore from the ground is typically environmentally unfriendly as is the process of beneficiation, which uses ground water. Stricter environmental controls in India or China on the mining of ore or the processing of ore could have an adverse impact on our business, by raising additional compliance expenses. Mineral exploration and development, as well as Ironman’s current mining activities and its future mineral mining operations are, and may continue to be, subject to stringent state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to environmental quality, production, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, protection and remediation of the environment, mine safety, toxic substances and other matters. Mineral mining is also subject to risks and liabilities associated with pollution of the environment and disposal of waste products occurring as a result of mineral production. Compliance with these laws and regulations will impose substantial costs on Ironman and may subject it to significant potential liabilities. Further, any changes to these regulations may increase Ironman’s operating costs and may adversely affect its results of operations. Our business relies heavily on our management team and any unexpected loss of key officers may adversely affect our operations. The continued success of our business is largely dependent on the continued services of key employees in IGC and our subsidiaries after the Acquisition. The loss of the services of certain key personnel, without adequate replacement, could have an adverse effect on our performance. Our senior management, as well as the senior management of our subsidiaries, plays a significant role in developing and executing the overall business plan, maintaining client relationships, proprietary processes and technology. While no one is irreplaceable, the loss of the services of any would be disruptive to our business. A large portion of Ironman’s revenue is derived from five major customers. Five of Ironman’s major customers accounted for 92%, respectively of its total revenue for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 and 83%, respectively, of its total revenue for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. We expect this trend of concentration to continue, as the buyers of iron ore tend to be large traders or steel mills. Non-renewal or/and termination of such relationship may have a material adverse effect on its revenue. No assurance can be given that following the Acquisition that it will be able to maintain such a relationship. Additionally, no assurance can be given that Ironman’s business will not remain largely dependent on a limited number of customers accounting for a substantial part of our revenue. Our quarterly revenue, operating results and profitability will vary. Factors that may contribute to the variability of quarterly revenue, operating results or profitability include: · Fluctuations in revenue due to seasonality such as during the monsoon season, the heavy rains slow down road building and during the summer months, the winds are not strong enough to power the wind turbines, which results in uneven revenue and operating results over the year; · Commencement, completion and shipment during any particular quarter; · Weather and additions and departures of key personnel; and · Strategic decisions made by us and our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments and changes in business strategy. Ironman faces intense competition in the Iron ore business. Large companies in Brazil, Australia, India, and other ore producing countries dominate the iron ore business. Most of these companies are miners and export directly to the large steel mills around the world. Our strategy of sourcing low-grade inexpensive ore from India and processing it in China is fairly unique and allows us to supply steel producers at competitive prices, while maintaining margins. Ironman depends on its expertise in sourcing low cost low-grade ore and to process the ore. If Ironman is unable to offer competitive prices there could be a significant reduction in our revenue. IGC may not be able to compete successfully for mineral rights with companies having greater financial resources than we have. All mines have limited resources and as such, we intend to acquire additional mining operations, as part of our long-term strategy. As there is a limited supply of desirable mineral deposits in the PRC, we face strong competition for promising acquisition targets from other mining companies, some of which have greater financial resources than we have. IGC may be unable to compete with such other mining companies in making acquisitions that we deem to be complementary to our business, or to acquire such on terms that are acceptable to us. 23 Table of Contents Ironman is a cash business, which may cause us to suffer losses from theft and other corrupt practices. Ironman is a “cash business” which means that most transactions occur on the spot using cash rather than through order forms and payment via check, wire or credit card. Cash businesses are more susceptible to corrupt practices. As with any business that is cash intensive, the accuracy and adequacy of reporting income is highly contingent upon ownership and the owner's propensity for cash management and control. As a result, Ironman may experience a certain percentage of loss due to theft and misappropriation. To offset this, IGC will impose controls over cash collection for this cash business. The controls will include monitoring the cash balances closely, limiting the amount of cash available in vulnerable locations, using vaulted equipment to store cash properly and most importantly, migrating financial transactions toward checks and wire transfers. Failure to control the integrity of cash collection and deposits would lead to a significant reduction in our revenue. Ironman’s revenue and, therefore, our profitability, may be affected by metal price volatility. The majority of Ironman’s revenue is derived from the sale of high-grade ore. Consequently, its revenue is directly related to the price of high-grade ore. The fact that it does not conduct any hedging of the price of iron ore exposes it to increased price volatility. Iron ore is one of the biggest dry bulk commodities traded and shipped. According to the U.S. Geological Survey, Mineral Commodity Summaries, January 2012 report, the estimated world total mine production of iron ore was 2,800 million metric tons of usable ore worth $336 billion and the world total resources of iron ore content was 80,000 million metric tons of usable ore. The price (estimated from reported value of ore at mines) was $120 USD per metric ton. According to Bloomberg News, Dec 19, 2011, Iron ore prices may remain below $140 a metric ton as Chinese mills limit purchases. The growth of spot trading in this huge market presents an opportunity for banks, traders, producers and consumers to manage price risk and exposure. Trading since 2008, the iron ore swap has emerged as the leading instrument for iron ore hedging and risk management. Changes in the prices of high-grade ore and lead may adversely affect our operating results. It is difficult to predict whether high-grade ore prices will rise or fall in the future and a decline in prices could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 