Item 1A. Risk factors The risks described below could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows. Although it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties, they may include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider not to be material to our operations. You should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all risks and uncertainties. Risks relating to our business If motion pictures that can be viewed with RealD Cinema Systems are not made or are not commercially successful, our revenue will decline. Almost all of our revenue is currently dependent upon both the number of 3D motion pictures released and the commercial success of those 3D motion pictures. Although we have produced alternative content in 3D, such as the production of Carmen in 3D with London's Royal Opera House, we are not actively developing 3D motion pictures or our own 3D content, other than the current production of Madam Butterfly 3D, and therefore, we rely on motion picture studios producing and releasing 3D motion pictures compatible with our RealD Cinema Systems. There is no guarantee an increasing number of 3D motion pictures will be released or that motion picture studios will continue to produce 3D motion pictures at all. Motion picture studios may refrain from producing and releasing 3D motion pictures for any number of reasons, including their lack of commercial success, consumer preferences, the lower-cost to produce 2D motion pictures or the availability of other entertainment options. The commercial success of a 3D motion picture depends on a number of factors that are outside of our control, including whether it achieves critical acclaim, timing of the release, cost, marketing efforts and promotional support for the release. In the past, consumer interest in 3D motion pictures was episodic and motion picture studios tended to use 3D motion pictures as a gimmick rather than as an artistic tool to enhance the viewing experience. If consumers' recent renewed interest in the 3D viewing experience fails to grow or it declines for any reason, box office performance may suffer and motion picture studios may reduce the number of 3D motion pictures they produce. Poor box office performance of 3D motion pictures, disruption or reduction in 3D motion picture production or conversion of two-dimensional motion pictures into 3D motion pictures, changes in release schedules, cancellations of motion picture releases in 3D versions, a reduction in marketing efforts for 3D motion pictures by motion picture studios or a lack of consumer demand for 3D motion pictures could result in lower 3D motion picture attendance, which would substantially reduce our revenue. For example, the fact that Warner Brothers was unable to convert Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 1 from 2D into 3D in time for a 2010 release in 3D negatively impacted 3D motion picture attendance and, we believe, the box office for that motion picture and our revenue in the period in which that motion picture was released. If motion picture exhibitors do not continue to use our RealD Cinema Systems or experience financial difficulties, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our primary licensees in the motion picture industry are motion picture exhibitors. Our license agreements with motion picture exhibitors do not obligate these licensees to deploy a specific number of our RealD Cinema Systems. We cannot predict whether any of our existing motion picture exhibitor licensees will continue to perform under their license agreements with us, whether they will renew their license agreements with us at the end of their term or whether we may now or in the future be in breach of those agreements. If motion picture exhibitors reduce or eliminate the number of 3D motion pictures that are exhibited in theaters, then motion picture studios may not produce and release 3D motion pictures and our revenue could be materially and adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents In addition, license revenue from AMC, Cinemark and Regal together comprised approximately 24% of our gross license revenue in the year ended March 23, 2012, 23% in the year ended March 25, 2011 and 30% in the year ended March 26, 2010. Any inability or failure by motion picture exhibitors to pay us amounts due in a timely fashion or at all could substantially reduce our cash flow and could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. A deterioration in our relationships with the major motion picture studios could adversely affect our business. The six major motion picture studios accounted for approximately 82% of domestic box office revenue and all 10 of the top 10 grossing 3D motion pictures in calendar year 2011. Such 3D motion pictures are also released internationally. In addition, for our domestic operations, these major motion picture studios pay us a per use fee for our RealD eyewear. To the extent that our relationship with any of these major motion picture studios deteriorates or any of these studios stop making motion pictures that can be viewed at RealD-enabled theater screens, refuse to co-brand with us, stop using or paying for the use of or reduce the amounts paid for our RealD eyewear in domestic markets, our costs could increase and our revenue could decline, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. We understand that at least one motion picture studio is seeking a change to the 3D eyewear business model in North America to resemble the international model. While we support multiple business models for our RealD eyewear around the world, the uncertainty and any potential dispute with a motion picture studio over the domestic eyewear business model could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. If motion picture exhibitors do not continue converting analog theaters to digital or the pace of conversions slows, our future prospects could be limited and our business could be adversely affected. Our RealD Cinema Systems only work in theaters equipped with digital cinema projection systems, which enable 3D motion pictures to be delivered, stored and projected electronically, and our systems are not compatible with analog motion picture projectors. Motion picture exhibitors have been converting projectors to digital cinema over the last several years, giving us the opportunity to deploy our RealD Cinema Systems. After motion picture exhibitors convert their projectors to digital cinema, they must install a silver screen and our RealD Cinema System in order to display motion pictures in RealD 3D. The conversion by motion picture exhibitors of their projectors and screens from analog to digital cinema requires significant expense. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 65% of domestic theater screens had converted to digital and approximately 45% of the international theater screens had been converted. If the market for digital cinema develops more slowly than expected, or if the motion picture exhibitors we have agreements with delay or abandon the conversion of their theaters, our ability to grow our revenue and our business could be adversely affected. While DCIP and Cinedigm financing provided funding for the digital conversion of domestic theater screens operated by many of our licensees, there has not been a similar effort to organize digital conversion in certain geographies outside North America. If the pace of digital conversion outside of the United States does not follow that which occurred inside the United States, our revenue may not grow and our business could be adversely affected. If the deployment of our RealD Cinema Systems is delayed or not realized, our future prospects could be limited and our business could be adversely affected. We have license agreements with motion picture exhibitors that give us the right, subject to certain exceptions, to deploy our RealD Cinema Systems if a location under contract is already equipped with our systems and they choose to install additional 3D digital projector systems. As of March 23, 2012, we were working with our motion picture exhibitor licensees to deploy our RealD Cinema Systems on up to approximately 2,700 additional screens under our existing agreements with them. However, our license agreements do not obligate our licensees to deploy a specific number of our RealD Cinema 20 Table of Contents Systems. Numerous factors beyond our control could influence when and whether our RealD Cinema Systems will be deployed, including motion picture exhibitors' ability to fund capital expenditures, or their decision to delay or abandon the conversion of their theaters to digital projection or reduce the number of 3D motion pictures exhibited in their theaters, and our ability to secure adequate supplies of components comprising our RealD Cinema System in any given period. If motion picture exhibitors delay, postpone or decide not to deploy RealD Cinema Systems at the number of screens they have announced, or we are unable to deploy our RealD Cinema Systems in a timely manner, our future prospects could be limited and our business could be adversely affected. Any inability to protect our intellectual property rights could reduce the value of our 3D technologies and brand, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and business. Our business is dependent upon our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property rights. Effective intellectual property rights protection, however, may not be available under the laws of every country in which we and our licensees operate, such as China. The efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business or our ability to compete. In addition, protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. It may not be practicable or cost effective for us to fully protect our intellectual property rights in some countries or jurisdictions. If we are unable to successfully identify and stop unauthorized use of our intellectual property, we could lose potential revenue and experience increased operational and enforcement costs, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and business. It is possible that some of our 3D technologies may not be protectable by patents. In addition, given the costs of obtaining patent protection, we may choose not to protect particular innovations that later turn out to be important. Even where we do have patent protection, the scope of such protection may be insufficient to prevent third parties from designing around our particular patent claims or otherwise avoiding infringement. Furthermore, there is always the possibility that an issued patent may later be found to be invalid or unenforceable, or a competitor may attempt to engineer around our issued patent. Additionally, patents only offer a limited term of protection. Moreover, the intellectual property we maintain as trade secrets could be compromised by third parties, or intentionally or accidentally by our employees, which would cause us to lose the competitive advantage resulting from them. We may in the future be subject to intellectual property rights disputes that are costly to defend, could require us to pay damages and could limit our ability to use particular 3D technologies in the future. We may be exposed to, or threatened with, future litigation or any other disputes by other parties alleging that our 3D technologies infringe their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property disputes, regardless of their merit, could be time consuming, expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management resources and attention. An adverse determination in any intellectual property dispute could require us to pay damages and/or stop using our 3D technologies, trademarks, copyrighted works and other material found to be in violation of another party's rights and could prevent us from licensing our 3D technologies to others. In order to avoid these restrictions and resolve the dispute, we may have to pay for a license. This license may not be available on reasonable terms, could require us to pay significant license fees and may significantly increase our operating expenses. A license also may not be available to us at all. As a result, we may be required to use and/or develop non-infringing alternatives, which could require significant effort and expense, or which may not be possible. If we cannot obtain a license or develop alternatives for any infringing aspects of our business, we may be forced to limit our 3D technologies and may be unable to compete effectively. In certain instances, we have contractually agreed to provide indemnification to licensees relating to our 21 Table of Contents intellectual property. This may require us to defend or hold harmless motion picture exhibitors, consumer electronics manufacturers or other licensees. We have from time to time corresponded with one or more third parties regarding patent enforcement issues and in-bound and out-bound patent licensing opportunities. In addition, from time to time we may be engaged in disputes regarding the licensing of our intellectual property rights, including matters related to our license fee rates and other terms of our licensing arrangements. These types of disputes can be asserted by our licensees or prospective licensees or by other third parties as part of negotiations with us or in private actions seeking monetary damages or injunctive relief or in regulatory actions. Requests for monetary and injunctive remedies asserted in claims like these could be material and could have a significant impact on our business. Any disputes with our licensees, potential licensees or other third parties could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. Our RealD Cinema Systems and other technologies are generally designed for use with third-party technologies and hardware, and if we are unable to maintain the ability of our RealD Cinema Systems and other technologies to work with these third-party technologies and hardware, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our RealD Cinema Systems and other technologies are generally designed for use with third-party technologies and hardware, such as Christie projectors, Doremi servers, Harkness Hall screens and Sony Electronics 4K SXRD® digital cinema projectors. Third-party technologies and hardware may be modified, re-engineered or removed altogether from the marketplace. In addition, third-party technologies used to interact with our RealD Cinema Systems, RealD Format and other 3D technologies can change without prior notice to us, which could result in increased costs or our inability to provide our 3D technologies to our licensees. If we are unable to maintain the ability of our RealD Cinema Systems, RealD Format and other 3D technologies to work with these third-party technologies and hardware, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. If we are unable to maintain our brand and reputation for providing high quality 3D technologies, our business, results of operations and prospects could be materially harmed. Our business, results of operations and prospects depend, in part, on maintaining and strengthening our brand and reputation for providing high quality 3D technologies. If problems with our 3D technologies cause motion picture exhibitors, consumer electronics manufacturers or other licensees to experience operational disruption or failure or delays in the delivery of their products and services to their customers, our brand and reputation could be diminished. Maintaining and strengthening our brand and reputation may be particularly challenging as we enter business segments in which we have limited experience, such as 3D consumer electronics. If we fail to promote and maintain our brand and reputation successfully, our business, results of operations and prospects could be materially harmed. Competition from other providers of 3D technologies to the motion picture industry could adversely affect our business. The motion picture industry is highly competitive, particularly among providers of 3D technologies. Our primary competitors include Dolby, Sony, IMAX, MasterImage and Xpand. In addition, other companies, including motion picture exhibitors and studios, may develop their own 3D technologies in the future. Consumers may also perceive the quality of 3D technologies delivered by some of our competitors to be equivalent or superior to our 3D technologies. In addition, some of our current or future competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do or may have more experience or advantages in the business segments in which we compete that will allow them to offer lower prices or higher quality technologies, products or services. If we do not successfully compete with these providers of 3D technologies, we could lose market share and our 22 Table of Contents business could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, competition could force us to decrease prices and cause our margins to decline, which could adversely affect our business. Pricing pressures in both domestic and international motion picture exhibitor markets continue, and no assurance can be given that our margins in future periods will increase. We face potential competition from companies with greater brand recognition and resources in the consumer electronics industry. 3D consumer electronics technologies are new and rapidly developing, and we must compete with companies that enjoy competitive advantages, including: •more developed distribution channels and deeper relationships with consumer electronics manufacturers; •a more extensive customer base; •technologies that may be better suited for 3D consumer electronics products; •broader technology, product and service offerings; and •greater resources for competitive activities, such as research and development, strategic acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, sales and marketing, and lobbying for changes in industry and government standards. As a result, these current and potential competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, products, technologies or standards in 3D consumer electronics. We also face competition where existing licensees relying on our RealD Cinema Systems in the motion picture industry may become current or potential competitors in 3D consumer electronics, or vice versa. For example, Sony Pictures Entertainment, Inc., or Sony Pictures, is a major motion picture studio, but certain of its affiliates also design, manufacture and market consumer electronics products and components and are marketing 3D consumer electronics. To the extent that our other licensees choose to utilize competing 3D technologies that they have developed or in which they have an interest, rather than use our 3D technologies, our growth prospects could be adversely affected. The introduction of new 3D technologies and changes in the way that our competitors operate could harm our business. If we fail to keep up with rapidly changing 3D technologies or the growth of new and existing opportunities, our 3D technologies could become less competitive or obsolete. The motion picture and consumer electronics industries in general are undergoing significant changes. Due to technological advances and changing consumer tastes, numerous companies have developed, and are expected to continue to develop, new 3D technologies that may compete directly with or render our 3D technologies less competitive or obsolete. We believe that original equipment manufacturers may be working to develop laser-based projection technologies, which may compete with, be incompatible with or render our RealD Cinema Systems obsolete. Competitors may develop alternative 3D technologies that are more attractive to consumers, content producers and distributors, motion picture exhibitors, consumer electronics manufacturers and others, or more cost effective than our technologies, and compete with or render our 3D technologies less competitive or obsolete. As a result of this competition, we could lose market share, which could harm our business and operating results. We expect to continue to expend considerable resources on research and development in response to changes in the motion picture and consumer electronics industries. However, we may not be able to develop and effectively market new 3D technologies that adequately or competitively address the needs of these changing industries, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and prospects. 23 Table of Contents If our 3D technologies fail to be widely adopted by or are not compatible with the needs of our licensees, our business prospects could be limited and our operating results could be adversely affected. Our motion picture and consumer electronics licensees depend upon our 3D technologies being compatible with a wide variety of motion picture and consumer electronics systems, products and infrastructure. We make significant efforts to design our 3D technologies to address capability, quality and cost considerations so that they either meet or, where possible, exceed the needs of our licensees in the motion picture and consumer electronics industries. To have our 3D technologies widely adopted in the motion picture and consumer electronics industries, we must convince a broad spectrum of professional organizations worldwide, as well as motion picture studios and exhibitors and consumer electronics manufacturers who are members of such organizations, to adopt them and to ensure that our 3D technologies are compatible with their systems, products and infrastructure. If our 3D technologies are not widely adopted or retained or if we fail to conform our 3D technologies to the expectations of, or standards set by, industry participants, they may not be compatible with other products and our business, operating results and prospects could be adversely affected. We expect that meeting and maintaining the needs of our licensees for compatibility with them will be significant to our business in the future. In addition, the market for broadcast technologies has traditionally been heavily regulated by governments or other regulatory bodies, and we expect this to continue to be the case in the future. If our 3D technologies are not compatible with the broadcasting infrastructure or governmental or regulatory requirements in particular geographic areas, our ability to compete in these markets could be adversely affected. Other forms of entertainment may be more attractive to consumers than those using our 3D technologies, which could harm our growth and operating results. We face competition for consumer attention from other forms of entertainment that may drive down motion picture box office, license revenue from motion picture exhibitors, and license revenue from 3D-enabled consumer electronic devices. We compete with a number of alternative motion picture distribution channels, such as cable, satellite, broadcast, packaged media and the Internet. There are also other forms of entertainment competing for consumers' leisure time and disposable income such as concerts, amusement parks and sporting events. A significant increase in the popularity of these alternative motion picture channels and competing forms of entertainment could reduce the demand for theatrical exhibition of 3D motion pictures, including those viewed with our RealD Cinema Systems, or the use of 3D-enabled consumer electronics devices, any of which would have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our limited operating history in 3D consumer electronics presents risk to our ability to achieve success in this area. Our 3D technologies have only recently been made available to consumer electronics manufacturers, including JVC, Panasonic, Samsung, Sony Electronics, Toshiba and Vizio, as well as electronics component suppliers such as Broadcom, to enable 3D viewing on high definition televisions, laptops and other displays. After having jointly announced with Samsung a license agreement in May 2011 which we had expected to lead to the incorporation of our RDZ™ 3D display technology into LCD panels manufactured by Samsung, we subsequently learned that Samsung's initiative to manufacture panels under the license agreement with us is no longer being pursued. To date, we have not generated revenue of any material significance from our arrangements with these and other consumer electronics manufacturers. 3D consumer electronics technologies are rapidly developing, as manufacturers are working to set standards and content producers and distributors are working on increasing the availability of new 3D content. However, the demand for our 3D technologies and the income potential from 3D consumer electronics is unproven. In addition, because 3D consumer electronics technologies are new and quickly evolving, we have limited insight into trends that may 24 Table of Contents emerge and affect our business. We may make errors in predicting and reacting to relevant business trends. We also may not be able to successfully address these risks on a timely basis or at all. If consumer electronics manufacturers limit, delay or cease their use of our 3D technologies in high definition televisions, laptops and other displays or such products are not accepted by consumers, our potential growth will be significantly reduced. We are dependent on consumer electronics manufacturers to use our RealD Display, active and passive eyewear and RealD Format technologies with their high definition televisions, laptops and other displays, and for content distributors to deliver 3D content via cable, satellite, broadcast, packaged media and the Internet. While we have entered into agreements with some consumer electronics manufacturers regarding the use of our 3D technologies in various consumer electronics products, these agreements are not exclusive, and we can give no assurances that these consumer electronics manufacturers will utilize our 3D technologies or that there will be sufficient consumer demand for 3D electronics products. In addition, since 3D consumer electronics technologies are still emerging, it is unclear if consumers will widely adopt viewing 3D content in the home and elsewhere as an attractive alternative to the 2D viewing experience. After having jointly announced with Samsung a license agreement in May 2011 which we had expected to lead to the incorporation of our RDZ™ 3D display technology into LCD panels manufactured by Samsung, Samsung's initiative to manufacture panels under the license agreement with us is no longer being pursued. The cost or lack of consumer interest in 3D technologies may cause consumer electronics manufacturers to limit, delay or cease their use of our 3D technologies. In addition, our competitors in 3D consumer electronics technologies may offer consumers superior technology or lower prices which may reduce the demand for our RealD 3D-enabled consumer electronic devices. As a result, our future prospects could be adversely affected if consumer electronics manufacturers choose not to use our 3D technologies in their devices. Acquisition activities could result in operating difficulties, dilution to our stockholders and other harmful consequences. We have built our business, in part, through acquisitions of intellectual property and other assets, including Stereographics in 2005 and ColorLink in 2007. We intend to selectively pursue strategic acquisitions in the future. Future acquisitions could divert management's time and focus from operating our business. In addition, integrating an acquired company, business or technology is risky and may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Foreign acquisitions also involve unique risks related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. We may not accurately assess the value or prospects of acquisition candidates, and the anticipated benefits from our future acquisitions may not materialize. In addition, future acquisitions or dispositions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, including our common stock, the incurrence of additional debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could materially harm our financial condition. Our growth may place a strain on our resources, and we may continue to borrow money as our business grows. We have experienced significant growth since we acquired ColorLink in 2007. The growth that we have experienced in the past, as well as any further growth that we experience, may place a significant strain on our resources and increase demands on our management, our information and reporting systems and our internal controls over financial reporting. Upon becoming a public company in July 2010, we began incurring additional general and administrative expenses to comply with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, reporting requirements, the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, and provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank 25 Table of Contents Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, and will continue to incur additional research and development expenses. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively while maintaining appropriate internal controls, we may experience operating inefficiencies that could increase our costs or otherwise materially and adversely affect our financial position. In addition, as our business grows, we may borrow money to fund various growth initiatives, including accelerated research and product development, acquisitions, capital expenditures or stock repurchases, which will result in debt service payment obligations and will require us to comply with certain financial and operating covenants. For example, we recently entered into a secured credit facility agreement with City National Bank, or City National, to increase our borrowing capacity to an aggregate of $125 million. We may draw on our secured credit facility in order to fund growth initiatives and repurchase our common stock. In the event we breach any of the covenants under our credit agreements or are unable to pay our obligations to City National or other lenders as they become due, we may become in default under our credit agreements which will have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our level of indebtedness reduces our financial flexibility and could impede our ability to operate. We recently entered into a secured credit facility agreement with City National to provide the Company with: •a revolving credit facility (including a letter of credit sub-facility) in a maximum amount not to exceed $75,000,000 (the "Revolving Facility"); and •a delayed-draw term loan facility in a maximum amount not to exceed $50,000,000 (the "Term Loan Facility"). The Revolving Facility and the Term Loan Facility replaced pre-existing revolving and term loan facilities provided under our pre-existing credit and security agreement with City National, which had been most recently amended on December 6, 2011. Our obligations under our secured credit facility are secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets and are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by our subsidiaries, ColorLink Inc., a Delaware corporation ("ColorLink"), and Stereographics Corporation, a California corporation ("Stereographics"). We intend to borrow additional amounts under our secured credit facility to fund various growth initiatives, including accelerated research and product development, acquisitions, capital expenditures and stock repurchases. We expect that we will maintain a significant amount of indebtedness on an ongoing basis. Our Revolving Facility matures on April 17, 2015, and the Term Loan Facility matures the last day of the twelfth (12th) full fiscal quarter after the earlier of October 18, 2013 or the date that aggregate term loan commitments have been drawn in full, which maturity dates may, in each case, be accelerated in certain circumstances. There is no assurance that we will be able to refinance our outstanding indebtedness, or if refinancing is available, that it can be obtained on terms we can afford. The capital markets have recently experienced a high degree of volatility. To the extent that volatility in the capital markets continues, our access to capital may become limited and its borrowing costs may materially increase. Our credit facilities require us to pay a variable rate of interest, which will increase or decrease based on variations in certain financial indexes, and fluctuations in interest rates can significantly decrease our profits. We do not have any hedge or similar contracts that would protect us against changes in interest rates. 26 Table of Contents The amount of our indebtedness could have important consequences for you, including the following: •requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations, future business opportunities and other purposes; •limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; •making it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations, and any failure to comply with such obligations, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing such indebtedness, which could lead to, among other things, an acceleration of our indebtedness or foreclosure on the assets securing our indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition; •limiting our ability to borrow additional funds, or to sell assets to raise funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; and •increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in interest rates. Our indebtedness was $25 million as of March 23, 2012. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service and repay our debt and related obligations and have sufficient funds left over to achieve or sustain profitability in our operations, meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs or compete successfully in our industry, particularly if we access our increased Revolving Facility and Term Loan Facility. Our credit facilities impose, and the terms of any future indebtedness may impose, significant operating, financial and other restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. Restrictions imposed by our credit facilities will limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to: •incur additional debt •make certain investments or acquisitions •enter into certain merger and consolidation transactions, and •sell our assets other than in the ordinary course of business. We are also required to maintain compliance with certain financial covenants, including a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio. If we fail to comply with any of the covenants or if any other event of default, as defined in our credit facilities, should occur, the lenders could elect to prevent us from borrowing and declare the indebtedness to be immediately due and payable. These restrictions could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs and pursue available business opportunities. A breach of any of these restrictions, including breach of financial covenants, could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness. If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness, which will constitute substantially all of our assets. 27 Table of Contents We may incur future asset impairment charges. An asset impairment charge may result from the occurrence of unexpected adverse events or management decisions that impact our estimates of expected cash flows generated from our long-lived assets. We review our long-lived assets for impairment, when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. We may be required to recognize asset impairment charges in the future as a result of reductions in demand for specific technologies, a weak economic environment, challenging market conditions, events related to particular customers or asset type, or as a result of asset or portfolio sale decisions by management. We face risks from doing business internationally that could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on international business for a significant portion of our total revenue. International gross revenue accounted for approximately 49% in fiscal 2012, 55% in fiscal 2011 and 46% in fiscal 2010. We expect that our international business will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. This future revenue will depend to a large extent on the continued use and expansion of our 3D technologies in the motion picture and consumer electronics industries worldwide. As a result, our business is subject to certain risks inherent in international business operations, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include: •competitive and pricing pressures that vary from market-to-market and place-to-place; •fluctuating foreign exchange rates and systems; •laws and policies affecting trade, investment and taxes, including laws and policies relating to customs, duties, the repatriation of funds and withholding taxes and changes in these laws and our compliance with the foregoing; •changes in local regulatory requirements, including restrictions on content; •differing cultural tastes and attitudes; •differing degrees of protection for intellectual property; •the need to adapt our business model to local requirements; •the instability of foreign economies and governments; and •political instability, natural disaster, war or acts of terrorism. Events or developments related to these and other risks associated with our international business operations could adversely affect our revenue from such operations, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results may fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter, which may be different from analysts' expectations and adversely affect our stock price. Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Factors that have affected our operating results in the past, and are likely to affect our operating results in the future, include, among other things: •the timing of when a 3D motion picture is released which tends to be based on specific consumer entertainment dynamics, which results in seasonal patterns, with the largest number of motion pictures being released in summer and early winter; •the rate of installations of new RealD Cinema Systems, which we expect to decrease with the passage of time; 28 Table of Contents •the timing of capital expenditures and expenses, including depreciation expense of our RealD Cinema Systems deployed at a motion picture exhibitor's premises (we expect capital expenditures to decrease, and depreciation expense to increase, as our RealD Cinema Systems business matures), digital projector depreciation expenses, RealD eyewear costs (including shipping, handling and recycling costs), field service and support costs, and occupancy costs, which may increase significantly, even in quarters when we do not experience a similar growth in revenue; •the timing and accuracy of license fee reports which often include positive or negative corrective or retroactive license fees that cover extended periods of time; and •competitive and pricing pressures that vary from market-to-market and place-to-place. In addition, variances in our operating results from analysts' expectations could adversely affect our stock price. See also "Part II, Item 7: Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—Seasonality and Quarterly Performance." Our RealD eyewear may, in the future, be regulated by the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, or by other state or foreign governmental or regulatory agencies, which could increase our costs and materially and adversely impact our profitability. Currently, polarized 3D eyewear, including our RealD eyewear, is not regulated by the FDA, or by state or foreign governmental and regulatory agencies. However, certain eyewear, such as non-prescription reading glasses and sunglasses, are considered to be medical devices by the FDA and are subject to regulations imposed by the FDA and various state and foreign governmental and regulatory agencies. With the rising popularity of polarized 3D eyewear, there has been an increasing level of public scrutiny examining its potential health risks. Polarized 3D eyewear, including our RealD eyewear, may at some point be subject to federal, state or foreign regulations that could potentially restrict how our RealD eyewear is produced, used or marketed, and the cost of complying with those regulations may adversely affect our profitability. If 3D viewing with active or passive eyewear is found to cause health risks or consumers believe that it does, demand for the 3D viewing experience may decrease or we may become subject to liability, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. Research conducted by institutions unrelated to us has suggested that 3D viewing with active or passive eyewear may cause vision fatigue, eye strain, discomfort, headaches, motion sickness, dizziness, nausea, epileptic seizures, strokes, disorientation, perceptual after-effects, decreased postural stability or other health risks in some consumers. If these potential health risks are substantiated or consumers believe in their validity, demand for the 3D viewing experience in the theater, the home and elsewhere may decline. As a result, major motion picture studios and other content producers and distributors may refrain from developing 3D content, motion picture exhibitors may reduce the number of 3D-enabled screens (including RealD-enabled screens) they currently deploy or plan to deploy, or they may reduce the number of 3D motion pictures exhibited in their theaters, which would adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and prospects. A decline in consumer demand may also lead consumer electronics manufacturers and content distributors to reduce or abandon the production of 3D products, which could adversely affect our prospects and financial condition. In addition, if health risks associated with our RealD eyewear materialize, we may become subject to governmental regulation or product liability claims, including claims for personal injury. Successful assertion against us of one or a series of large claims could materially harm our business. Also, if our RealD eyewear is found to be defective, we may be required to recall it, which may result in substantial expense and adverse publicity that could adversely impact our sales, operating results and reputation. Potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or may be excluded 29 Table of Contents under the terms of the policy, which could adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, we may also be required to pay higher premiums and accept higher deductibles in order to secure adequate insurance coverage in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and business. Even meritless product liability claims could be expensive to resolve and may divert our management's attention. Our agreements with motion picture studios domestically and motion picture exhibitors internationally require us to manage the supply chain of our RealD eyewear, and any interruption to the supply chain for our RealD eyewear components could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. Our RealD eyewear is an integral part of our RealD Cinema Systems. We have entered into non-exclusive agreements with several manufacturers to produce RealD eyewear. We manage manufacturing, distribution and recycling of RealD eyewear for motion picture studios and exhibitors worldwide. Domestically, we generally provide our RealD eyewear free of charge to motion picture exhibitors and then receive a fee from the motion picture studios for the usage of that RealD eyewear by the motion picture exhibitors' customers. Most international motion picture exhibitors and some domestic motion picture exhibitors purchase RealD eyewear directly from us and sell them to consumers as part of their admission or as a concession item. Any interruption in the supply of RealD eyewear from manufacturers, increase in shipping cost, logistics or recycling interruption, other disruption to our global supply chain or competitive pricing pressures could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. For example, in connection with recent major 3D motion picture releases and increased consumer demand, we have in the past exhausted our inventory of RealD eyewear and incurred increased shipping costs to accelerate delivery. Our RealD 3D eyewear business model in North America relies on fees from motion picture studios for the usage of RealD eyewear by motion picture exhibitors' customers, the uncertainty and any potential dispute between motion picture studios and exhibitors could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. Our RealD eyewear is an integral part of our RealD Cinema Systems. Domestically, we provide our RealD eyewear free of charge to motion picture exhibitors and then receive a fee from the motion picture studios for the usage of that RealD eyewear by the motion picture exhibitors' customers. Most international motion picture exhibitors purchase RealD eyewear directly from us and sell them to customers as part of their admission or as a concession. We understand that at least one major motion picture studio is seeking a change to the 3D eyewear business model in North America to resemble the international model. While we support multiple business models for our RealD eyewear around the world, the uncertainty and any potential dispute between motion picture studios and exhibitors over the domestic eyewear business model could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. In addition, we expect that current profitability in our RealD eyewear business may not be sustainable, as motion picture studios with whom we do business seek to recover our cost savings and efficiencies in the form of reduced prices for eyewear. Economic conditions beyond our control could reduce consumer demand for motion pictures and consumer electronics using our 3D technologies and, as a result, could materially and adversely affect our business, revenue and growth prospects. The global economic environment since late 2008 has been volatile and continues to pose risks. The economy could remain significantly challenged for an indeterminate period of time. Present economic conditions could lead to a decrease in discretionary consumer spending, resulting in lower motion picture box office revenue. In the event of declining box office revenue, motion picture studios may be less willing to release 3D motion pictures and motion picture exhibitors may be less willing to 30 Table of Contents license our RealD Cinema Systems. Further, a decrease in discretionary consumer spending may adversely affect future demand for 3D consumer electronics products that may use our 3D technologies and consumer electronics manufacturers may decide to limit, delay or cease their use of our 3D technologies, any of which could cause our business, revenue and growth prospects to suffer. The loss of members of our management or research and development teams could substantially disrupt our business operations. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued individual and collective contributions of our management and research and development teams. A limited number of individuals have primary responsibility for managing our business, including our relationships with motion picture studios and exhibitors and consumer electronics manufacturers and the research and development of our 3D technologies. The loss of any of these individuals, including Michael V. Lewis, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could impair our ability to sustain and grow our business. In addition, because we operate in a highly competitive industry, our hiring of qualified executives, scientists, engineers or other personnel may cause us or those persons to be subject to lawsuits alleging misappropriation of trade secrets, improper solicitation of employees, breach of contract or other claims. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards could be subject to additional limitation if our ownership has changed or will change by more than 50%, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability. While currently subject to certain valuation allowances for purposes of preparing our consolidated financial statements (see the discussion under the heading "Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—Critical accounting policies and estimates—Deferred tax asset valuation and tax exposures" in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K), we intend to use our U.S. net operating loss carryforwards to reduce any future U.S. corporate income tax liability associated with our operations. Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in stock ownership. We have not determined whether such ownership change has previously occurred. It is possible that our initial public offering, or IPO, either on a standalone basis or when combined with past or future transactions (including, but not limited to, significant increases during the applicable testing period in the percentage of our stock owned directly or constructively by (i) any stockholder who owns 5% or more of our stock or (ii) some or all of the group of stockholders who individually own less than 5% of our stock), will cause us to undergo one or more ownership changes. In that event, our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards could be adversely affected. To the extent our use of net operating loss carryforwards is significantly limited under the rules of Section 382 (as a result of our IPO or otherwise), our income could be subject to U.S. corporate income tax earlier than it would if we were able to use net operating loss carryforwards, which could result in lower profits. Prior to the fiscal year ended March 23, 2012, we had a history of net losses and may suffer losses in the future. While we were profitable in the fiscal year ended March 23, 2012, we incurred net losses in our fiscal years ended 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008. If we cannot maintain profitability, our financial condition will deteriorate, and we may be unable to achieve our business objectives. 31 Table of Contents Risks related to owning our common stock The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Shares of our common stock were sold in our IPO in July 2010 at a price of $16.00 per share, and, as of May 29, 2012, our common stock has subsequently traded as high as $35.60 and as low as $7.85. An active, liquid and orderly market for our common stock may not be sustained, which could depress the trading price of our common stock. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell your shares at or above the price you paid for your shares or at all. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, which include: •our quarterly or annual earnings or those of our competitors; •the public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; •changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common stock or the stock of our competitors; •new laws or regulations or new interpretations of laws or regulations applicable to our business; •changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; •changes in general conditions in the domestic and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events; •litigation involving our company or investigations or audits by regulators into the operations of our company or our competitors; •strategic action by our competitors; and •sales of common stock by our directors, executive officers and significant stockholders. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology and media companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. If litigation is instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources even if such litigation is without merit. Sales of outstanding shares of our common stock (or shares of our common stock issued upon exercise of stock options) into the market in the future could cause the market price of our stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. As of May 29, 2012, we had 54,629,717 shares of common stock outstanding which are freely tradable, subject to prior registration or qualification for an exemption from registration, including, in the case of shares held by affiliates, compliance with the volume, manner of sale, notice and availability of public information provisions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. Our co-founders and certain other pre-IPO stockholders also have registration rights which enable them to cause us to register for sale shares held by them in the public markets. If our existing security holders sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. 32 Table of Contents In addition, as of March 23, 2012, there are 8,492,456 shares underlying options and restricted stock units and we have an aggregate of 3,077,247 shares of common stock reserved for future issuance under our equity incentive plan and employee stock purchase plan. These shares will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various option and warrant agreements, maintenance of applicable registration statements and Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act. If additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold in the public market, the trading price of our stock could decline. Our co-founders, directors, executive officers and principal stockholders have substantial control over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. As of March 23, 2012, our directors and executive officers, together with their affiliates, beneficially owned approximately 18.88% of our outstanding common stock. Of this 18.88%, approximately 10.15% was beneficially owned by Michael V. Lewis, our chairman and chief executive officer, and approximately 4.31% was beneficially owned by Joshua Greer, our co-founder and member of our board of directors. These stockholders, acting together, have the ability to control, or have significant influence over, the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these stockholders, acting together, have the ability to control, or have significant influence over, the management and affairs of our company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership might harm the market price of our common stock by: •delaying, deferring or preventing a change in corporate control; •impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us; or •discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. As a public company, we are required to assess our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis, and any future adverse results from such assessment could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. As a public company, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we need to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 requires that we expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our common stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources. 33 Table of Contents Your percentage ownership in us may be diluted by future issuances of capital stock, which could reduce your influence over matters on which stockholders vote. Our board of directors has the authority, without action or vote of our stockholders, to issue all or any part of our authorized but unissued shares of common stock, including shares issuable upon the exercise of options, shares that may be issued to satisfy our obligations under our equity incentive plans, shares that may be issued in connection with our acquisition of other companies, assets or technology, or shares of our authorized but unissued preferred stock. Issuances of common stock or preferred voting stock could reduce your influence over matters on which our stockholders vote and, in the case of issuances of preferred stock, likely could result in your interest in us being subject to the prior rights of holders of that preferred stock. In addition, any future issuance of capital stock by us will dilute your economic interest in our company. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates. We do not expect to pay dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future, and we intend to use cash generated from operations to continue to grow our business. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a positive return on your investment in us will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates. If securities or industry analysts cease to publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, may depress the trading price of our stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management that some of the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. Some of these provisions: •authorize the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares to discourage a takeover attempt; •provide for a classified board of directors (three classes) where only one-third of our board of directors is up for re-election at the annual stockholders meeting each year; •provide that stockholders may only remove directors for cause; •provide that stockholders may only remove directors prior to the expiration of their term upon a supermajority vote of at least 80% of our outstanding common stock; •provide that any vacancy on our board of directors, including a vacancy resulting from an increase in the size of the board, may only be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of our directors then in office, even if less than a quorum; 34 Table of Contents •provide that a special meeting of stockholders may only be called by our board of directors or by our chief executive officer; •provide that action by written consent of the stockholders may be taken only if the board of directors first approves such action; provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing, we will hold an annual meeting of stockholders in accordance with NYSE rules, for so long as our shares are listed on NYSE, and as otherwise required by the bylaws; •provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and •establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. We may also adopt a "poison pill" stockholder rights plan at any time in response to a potentially hostile bid or for any or no reason due to our available "blank check" preferred stock. Additionally, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any "interested" stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an "interested" stockholder. Item 1B. Unresolved staff comments None. 