Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this report before deciding to invest in our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our current organizational structure makes it difficult for us to evaluate our future business prospects. Prior to May 30, 2008, our business was operated through Tianjin Shengkai. Under the present structure, although there is no change in personnel, we have agreements with Tianjin Shengkai pursuant to which we manage and derive the profit from Tianjin Shengkai’s business by providing the exclusive supporting services from SK WFOE to Tianjin Shengkai. It is possible that the change in our business structure may impair our ability to operate our business. The PRC government may determine that the VIE Agreements are not in compliance with applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations. We manage and operate Tianjin Shengkai, one of our operating entities, through SK WFOE pursuant to the rights it holds under the contractual agreements (the “VIE” Agreements”). By reason of the VIE Agreements, Tianjin Shengkai is a variable interest entity (“VIE”). Almost all economic benefits and risks arising from Tianjin Shengkai’ s operations are transferred to SK WFOE under these agreements. Details of the VIE Agreements are set out in the “PRC Restructuring” section. There are risks involved with the operation of our business in reliance on the VIE Agreements, including the risk that the VIE Agreements may be determined by PRC regulators or courts to be unenforceable. Our PRC counsel, Beijing Deheng Law Offices, has advised us that the VIE Agreements are binding and enforceable under the PRC law, but has further advised that if the VIE Agreements were for any reason determined to be in breach of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such breach, including: · imposing economic penalties; · discontinuing or restricting the operations of SK WFOE or Tianjin Shengkai; · imposing conditions or requirements with respect to the VIE Agreements with which SK WFOE or Tianjin Shengkai may not be able to comply; · requiring our company to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; · taking other regulatory or enforcement actions that could adversely affect our company’s business; and · revoking the business licenses and/or the licenses or certificates of SK WFOE, and/or voiding the VIE Agreements. Any of these actions could adversely affect our ability to manage, operate and gain the financial benefits of Tianjin Shengkai, which would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to restructure our relationship with Tianjin Shengkai in such circumstances, our operations in the valve industries will be materially affected. Our ability to manage and operate Tianjin Shengkai under the VIE Agreements may not be as effective as direct ownership. We conduct our business in the PRC and generate substantially all of our revenues through the VIE Agreements. We depend on Tianjin Shengkai to hold and maintain contracts with our customers. Our plans for future growth are based substantially on growing the operations of Tianjin Shengkai. However, the VIE Agreements may not be as effective in providing us with control over Tianjin Shengkai as direct ownership. 38 We do not have any ownership interest in Tianjin Shengkai. Although we have been advised by Beijing Deheng Law Offices, our PRC legal counsel, that each contract under SK WFOE’s contractual arrangements with Tianjin Shengkai is valid, binding and enforceable under current PRC laws and regulations, these contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing us with control over Tianjin Shengkai as direct ownership of Tianjin Shengkai would be. In addition, Tianjin Shengkai may breach the contractual arrangements. For example, Tianjin Shengkai may decide not to make contractual payments to SK WFOE, and consequently to our company, in accordance with the existing contractual arrangements. In the event of any such breach, we may have to (i) incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements, and (ii) rely on legal remedies under PRC law, which we cannot be sure would be always effective in light of uncertainties in the PRC legal system. Therefore, if we are unable to effectively control Tianjin Shengkai, it may have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business objectives and grow our revenues. As the VIE Agreements are governed by PRC law, we would be required to rely on PRC law to enforce our rights and remedies under them; PRC law may not provide us with the same rights and remedies as are available in contractual disputes governed by the law of other jurisdictions. The VIE Agreements are governed by the PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through legal proceedings pursuant to PRC law. If Tianjin Shengkai or its shareholders fail to perform the obligations under the VIE Agreements, we would be required to resort to legal remedies available under the PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, or claiming damages. We cannot be sure that such remedies would provide us with effective means of causing to meet its obligations, or recovering any losses or damages as a result of non-performance. Further, the legal environment in China is not as developed as in other jurisdictions. Uncertainties in the application of various laws, rules, regulations or policies in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce the VIE Agreements and protect our interests. SK WFOE’s contractual arrangements with Tianjin Shengkai and the payment arrangement thereunder may be challenged by the PRC tax authorities and may result in adverse tax consequences to us. We generate our revenues through the payments we receive pursuant to the VIE Agreements. We could face adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the VIE Agreements were not entered into based on arm’s length negotiations. For example, PRC tax authorities may adjust WFOE’s and/or Tianjin Shengkai’s income and expenses for PRC tax purposes in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could result in a reduction, for the PRC tax purposes, of adjustments recorded by Tianjin Shengkai, which could adversely affect us by increasing Tianjin Shengkai’s tax liability without reducing SK WFOE’s tax liability, which could further result in late payment fees and other penalties to Tianjin Shengkai for underpaid taxes. Failure to comply with PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may materially adversely affect us. In October 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued the Notice on Relevant Issues in the Foreign Exchange Control over Financing and Round-Trip Investment Through Special Purpose Companies by Residents Inside China, generally referred to as Circular 75. The policy announced in this notice required PRC residents to register with the relevant SAFE branch before establishing or acquiring control over an offshore special purpose company, or SPV, for the purpose of engaging in an equity financing outside of China on the strength of domestic PRC assets originally held by those residents. Internal implementing guidelines issued by SAFE, which became public in May 2007 (known as Notice 106), expanded the reach of Circular 75. In the case of an SPV which was established, and which acquired a related domestic company or assets, before the implementation date of Circular 75, a retroactive SAFE registration was required to have been completed before March 31, 2006; this date was subsequently extended indefinitely by Notice 106, which also required that the registrant establish that all foreign exchange transactions undertaken by the SPV and its affiliates were in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with the requirements of Circular 75, as applied by SAFE in accordance with Notice 106, may result in fines and other penalties under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Any such failure could also result in the SPV’s affiliates being impeded or prevented from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the SPV, or from engaging in other transfers of funds into or out of China. 39 We believe we comply with the applicable regulations. Currently, Wang Chen, Guo Wei, Zhao Yanqiu, Ji Haihong, Zhang Ying, Miao Yang, Wu Yanping and Liu Naifan are PRC residents who, in accordance with Circular 75 and Notice 106, have each completed registration with the Tianjin branch of SAFE for the foreign exchange of overseas investment. We cannot however assure you that, if challenged by government agencies, the structure of our organization has fully complied with all applicable registrations or approvals required by Circular 75. Moreover, because of uncertainty over how Circular 75 will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. A failure by such PRC resident beneficial holders or future PRC resident shareholders to comply with Circular 75 and Notice 106, if SAFE requires it, could subject these PRC resident beneficial holders to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. Because we may require additional financing to expand our operations, our failure to obtain necessary financing may impair our operations. At June 30, 2012, we had working capital of $78,948,043. Our capital requirements in connection with the development of our business are significant. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012, we spent approximately $13,562,923 for the purchase of raw materials and supplies and equipment and other fixed assets, of which $11,876,469 was used to purchase raw materials and supplies and $1,686,454 was used to purchase equipment and other fixed assets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to get additional financing on any terms, and, if we are able to raise funds, it may be necessary for us to sell our securities at a price which is at a significant discount from the market price and on other terms which may be disadvantageous to us. In connection with any such financing, we may be required to provide registration rights to the investors and pay damages to the investor in the event that the registration statement is not filed or declared effective by specified dates. The price and terms of any financing which would be available to us could result in both the issuance of a significant number of shares and significant downward pressure on our stock price. Because our products are marketed both in the domestic and international markets, we are subject to both domestic and international competition. The Company faces two types of competitors: (i) manufacturers of metal valves, which currently still represent the majority market share in the entire valve market, competing with ceramic valves with its lower price; and (ii) Chinese and international companies that are better known and have greater financial resources than we have. Many of the international companies, in particular, have longer operating histories and have more established relationships with customers and end users. Some of our international competitors also may have a greater ability to attract and retain users than we do because they are engaged in major markets of general industrial products and cutting edge technology fields. If our competitors are successful in providing similar or better valve products or make their services easier to access, we could experience a decline in demand for our products. An increase in the cost of raw materials will affect sales and revenues. Raw materials required for valve production includes metal materials and ceramic materials like aluminum oxide and zinc oxide; a large number of spare parts in various specifications are also purchased during production. Any increase in the prices of these raw materials will affect the price at which we can sell our product. If we are not able to raise our prices to pass on increased costs, we would be unable to maintain our margins. 40 If we fail to effectively manage our growth when our business and operations experience rapid growth, our business and operating results could be harmed. We had experienced rapid growth in our operations, which had placed significant demands on our management, operational and financial infrastructure. If in future our operations resume rapid growth and we do not effectively manage our growth, the quality of our products and services could suffer, which could negatively affect our operating results. To effectively manage any such rapid growth in future, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. These systems enhancements and improvements may require significant capital expenditures and management resources. Failure to implement these improvements could hurt our ability to manage our growth and our financial position. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brand. Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property rights are important assets for us. Various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights as well as to our products and services. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in China and other countries in which our products are sold. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business or our ability to compete. Also, protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results. Because we depend on third parties to market our products in the international market, any problems encountered by these third parties could affect our sales. Although the market for valve products is international, most of our products are sold to companies in the PRC. We depend on other companies to market our products in the international market. As a result, we are dependent upon third parties, over which we have no control, to develop and implement an international marketing effort. Any problems encountered by these third parties, including potential violations of laws of the PRC or other countries, may affect their ability to sell our products which would, in turn, affect our net sales. We rely on highly skilled personnel and the continuing efforts of our executive officers and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire qualified personnel, our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our performance largely depends on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals and in particular, the technology and expertise held by our Chief Executive Officer, Wang Chen. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new technology developers and to retain and motivate our existing contractors. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our executive officers. If one or more of our executive officers are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all. Therefore, our business may be severely disrupted, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers. In addition, if any of our executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our customers. Our chief executive officer is a party to contractual agreements as described elsewhere in this registration statement. However, if any disputes arise between our executive officer and us, we cannot assure you, in light of uncertainties associated with the PRC legal system, the extent to which any of these agreements could be enforced in China, where some of our executive officers reside and hold some of their assets. Because we have inadequate insurance coverage in the PRC, we may not be protected from risks that are customarily covered by insurance in the United States. 41 We do not presently maintain product liability insurance in the PRC, and our property and equipment insurance does not cover the full value of our property and equipment, which leaves us with exposure in the event of loss or damage to our properties or claims filed against us. We currently do not carry any product liability or other similar insurance in the PRC. We cannot assure you that we would not face liability in the event of the failure of any of our products. This is particularly true given our plan to significantly expand our sales into international markets, like the United States, where product liability claims are more prevalent. Except for automobile insurance, we do not have other insurance such as business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in the PRC. We do not maintain a reserve fund for warranty or defective products claims. Our costs could substantially increase if we experience a significant number of warranty claims. We have not established any reserve funds for potential warranty claims since historically we have experienced few warranty claims for our products so that the costs associated with our warranty claims have been low. If we experience an increase in warranty claims or if our repair and replacement costs associated with warranty claims increase significantly, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Certain key technology for our business is uninsured and inaccessible in the absence of key individuals. The “recipe” to our unique method for creating structural ceramic valves is held by Wang Chen, our CEO, and his mother, Guo Chuanye. This technology is recorded but is uninsured and inaccessible by anyone but Mr. Wang, Guo Chuanye, and Guo Wei. If either of these three key individuals were to lose the ability to recall this technology, either through death or incapacity, we would lose key technology that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our Chief Executive Officer has strong influence on us through his position and stock ownership and his interests may differ from other shareholders. Since the exercise on August 5, 2009 of a call option agreement entered into on June 9, 2008 by and between Wang Chen and Li Shaoqing, our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Wang, beneficially owns 48.05% of our common stock through his 100% holding in Long Sunny Limited. As a result, Mr. Wang will be able to influence the outcome of shareholder votes on various matters, including the election of directors and extraordinary corporate transactions such as business combinations. Mr. Wang’s interests may differ from that of other shareholders. Our operations may be adversely affected by the unilateral decisionmaking structure of Tianjin Shengkai, the entity through which substantially all of our business is conducted. Mr. Wang Chen currently serves as executive director of Tianjin Shengkai. Tianjin Shengkai’s Articles of Association provides for its governance by an executive director, instead of a board of directors, to be appointed by Tianjin Shengkai’s shareholders. The PRC Company Act permits PRC companies with a smaller number of shareholders or registered capital to be governed by a sole executive director. Pursuant to Tianjin Shengkai’s Articles of Association, the executive director’s actions are overseen by a supervisor, Guo Chuanji, who holds no interest in the company. Notwithstanding such supervision, the governance of Tianjin Shengkai by a single executive director could result in inadequately vetted business decisions that could negatively affect the performance of our operations. We rely on energy and transportation services or others in providing products and services to our users, and any failure or interruption in the services and products provided by these third parties could harm our ability to operate our business and damage our reputation. 42 Our systems are heavily reliant on the availability of electricity. If we were to experience a major power outage, we would have to rely on back-up generators. These back-up generators may not operate properly and their fuel supply could be inadequate during a major power outage. This could result in a disruption of our business. If we fail to obtain all required licenses, permits, or approval, we may be unable to expand our operations. Before we can develop certain products, we must obtain a variety of approvals from local and municipal governments. There no assurance that we will be able to obtain all required licenses, permits, or approvals from government authorities. If we fail to obtain all required licenses, permits or approvals, we may be unable to expand our operations. If we make any acquisitions, they may disrupt or have a negative impact on our business. Although we have no present plans for any acquisitions, in the event that we make acquisitions, we could have difficulty integrating the acquired companies’ personnel and operations with our own. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired business may not be willing to work for us. We cannot predict the affect expansion may have on our core business. Regardless of whether we are successful in making an acquisition, the negotiations could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. In addition to the risks described above, acquisitions are accompanied by a number of inherent risks, including, without limitation, the following: · the difficulty of integrating acquired products, services or operations; · the potential disruption of the ongoing businesses and distraction of our management and the management of acquired companies; · the difficulty of incorporating acquired rights or products into our existing business; · difficulties in disposing of the excess or idle facilities of an acquired company or business and expenses in maintaining such facilities; · difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; · the potential impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management personnel; · the potential inability or failure to achieve additional sales and enhance our customer base through cross-marketing of the products to new and existing customers; · the effect of any government regulations which relate to the business acquired; · potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses or product lines, or the need to spend significant amounts to retool, reposition or modify the marketing and sales of acquired products or the defense of any litigation, whether or not successful, resulting from actions of the acquired company prior to our acquisition. Our business could be severely impaired if and to the extent that we are unable to succeed in addressing any of these risks or other problems encountered in connection with these acquisitions, many of which cannot be presently identified, these risks and problems could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. Because the holders of our warrants have cashless exercise rights, we may not receive proceeds from the exercise of the outstanding warrants if the underlying shares are not registered. The holders of our warrants have cashless exercise rights, which provide them with the ability to receive common stock with a value equal to the appreciation in the stock price over the exercise price of the warrants being exercised. This right is not exercisable prior to December 10, 2009 (in the case of warrants issued in connection with our June 2008 financing) or January 18, 2010 (in the case of warrants issued in connection with our July 2008 financing). Thereafter the right is only exercisable if the underlying shares are not subject to an effective registration statement. To the extent that the holders exercise the cashless exercise rights, we will not receive any proceeds on exercise of warrants. 43 Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the Chinese government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including · the amount of government involvement; · the level of development; · the growth rate; · the control of foreign exchange; and · the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past 20 years, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to regulate its economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the Chinese government could materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the PRC government to slow the pace of growth of the Chinese economy could result in decreased capital expenditure by solar energy users, which in turn could reduce demand for our products. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of renewable energy investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The change in value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an appreciation of Renminbi against U.S. dollar, which is continuing. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. As a portion of our costs and expenses is denominated in Renminbi, the revaluation in July 2005 and potential future revaluation has and could further increase our costs. In addition, as we rely entirely on dividends paid to us by our operating subsidiaries, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition, and the value of, and any of our dividends payable on our ordinary shares in foreign currency terms. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from this offering into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. 44 Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. All of our revenues and most of our expenses are denominated in Renminbi. If our revenues denominated in Renminbi increase or expenses denominated in Renminbi decrease in the future, we may need to convert a portion of our revenues into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations, including, among others, payment of dividends declared, if any, in respect of our ordinary shares. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, we are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that that the Chinese government will not take further measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Capital outflow policies in the PRC may hamper our ability to remit income to the United States. The People’s Republic of China has adopted currency and capital transfer regulations. These regulations may require that we comply with complex regulations for the movement of capital and as a result we may not be able to remit all income earned and proceeds received in connection with our operations or from the sale of our operating subsidiary to the U.S. or to our shareholders. Our operations and assets in the PRC are subject to significant political and economic uncertainties. Government policies are subject to rapid change and the PRC government may adopt policies which have the effect of hindering private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. There is no assurance that the PRC government will not significantly alter its policies from time to time without notice in a manner which reduces or eliminates any benefits from its present policies of economic reform. In addition, a substantial portion of productive assets in China remains government-owned. For instance, all lands are state owned and leased to business entities or individuals through governmental granting of state-owned land use rights. The granting process is typically based on government policies at the time of granting, which could be lengthy and complex. This process may adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Uncertainties may arise with changing of governmental policies and measures. In addition, changes in laws and regulations, or their interpretation, or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, imports and sources of supply, devaluations of currency, the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises, as well as adverse changes in the political, economic or social conditions in China, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A downturn in the economy of China may slow our growth and profitability. The growth of the Chinese economy has been uneven across geographic regions and economic sectors. There can be no assurance that growth of the Chinese economy will be steady or that any downturn will not have a negative effect on our business. Because PRC law governs almost all of our material agreements, we may not be able to enforce our legal rights within China or elsewhere, which could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities, or capital. PRC law governs almost all of our material agreements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enforce any of our material agreements or that remedies will be available outside of China. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in China may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. 45 It will be extremely difficult to acquire jurisdiction and enforce liabilities against our officers, directors and assets based in China. Substantially all of our assets will be located in the PRC and our officers and our present directors reside outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for United States investors to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under Federal securities laws. Moreover, we have been advised that China does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and China would permit effective enforcement of criminal penalties of the Federal securities laws. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in China, which could impair our planning processes and make it difficult to provide accurate reports of our operating results. China historically has not followed Western style management and financial reporting concepts and practices, and its access to modern banking, computer and other control systems has been limited. Although we will be required to implement internal controls, we may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in China in these areas. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing the required controls and instituting business practices that meet Western standards, making it difficult for management to forecast its needs and to present the results of our operations accurately at all times. If we are unable to establish the required controls, market makers may be reluctant to make a market in our stock and investors may be reluctant to purchase our stock, which would make it difficult for you to sell any shares of common stock that you may own or acquire. Because our funds are held in banks which do not provide insurance, the failure of any bank in which we deposit our funds could affect our ability to continue in business. Banks and other financial institutions in the PRC do not provide insurance for funds held on deposit. As a result, in the event of a bank failure, we may not have access to funds on deposit. Depending upon the amount of money we maintain in a bank that fails, our inability to have access to our cash could impair our operations, and, if we are not able to access funds to pay our suppliers, employees and other creditors, we may be unable to continue in business. Imposition of trade barriers and taxes may reduce our ability to do business internationally, and the resulting loss of revenue could harm our profitability. We may experience barriers to conducting business and trade in our targeted emerging markets in the form of delayed customs clearances, customs duties and tariffs. In addition, we may be subject to repatriation taxes levied upon the exchange of income from local currency into foreign currency, substantial taxes of profits, revenues, assets and payroll, as well as value-added tax. The markets in which we plan to operate may impose onerous and unpredictable duties, tariffs and taxes on our business and products, and there can be no assurance that this will not reduce the level of sales that we achieve in such markets, which would reduce our revenues and profits. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in the PRC. We can make no assurance, however, that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 46 Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock The trading price for our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has experienced fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common shares may be adversely affected by various factors, including enforcement of existing laws, innovation and technological changes, the emergence of new competitors, the perception of desirability of investing in Chinese companies, quarterly variations in revenue and results of operations, speculation in the press or analyst community and general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries. The rights of the holders of common stock may be impaired by the potential issuance of preferred stock. We have been required to amend our articles of incorporation to provide for a class of preferred stock. As a result, the board of directors may, without shareholder approval, issue preferred stock with voting, dividend, conversion, liquidation or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power and equity interest of the holders of common stock. Preferred stock, which could be issued with the right to more than one vote per share, could be utilized as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control. The possible impact on takeover attempts could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Although we have no present intention to issue any additional shares of preferred stock or to create any new series of preferred stock and the certificate of designation relating to the Series A Preferred Stock restricts our ability to issue additional series of preferred stock, we may issue such shares in the future. Without the consent of the holders of 75% of the outstanding Series A Preferred Stock, we may not alter or change adversely the rights of the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock or increase the number of authorized shares of Series A Preferred Stock, create a class of stock which is senior to or on a parity with the Series A Preferred Stock, amend our articles of incorporation in breach of these provisions or agree to any of the foregoing. The issuance of shares through our stock compensation plans may dilute the value of existing shareholders and may affect the market price of our stock. We have used, and in the future we may further use stock options, stock grants and other equity-based incentives, either pursuant to the 2010 and 2011 Incentive Stock Plans or outside of the 2010 and 2011 Incentive Stock Plans, to provide motivation and compensation to our officers, employees and key independent consultants. The award of any such incentives will result in an immediate and potentially substantial dilution to our existing shareholders and could result in a decline in the value of our stock price. The exercise of these options and the sale of the underlying shares of common stock and the sale of stock issued pursuant to stock grants may have an adverse effect upon the price of our stock. We will continue to incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance requirements. If we fail to comply in a timely manner, our business could be harmed and our stock price could decline. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, together with rules implemented by the SEC and applicable market regulators. These rules impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring certain corporate governance practices. Management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these new compliance requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require annual assessment of U.S. public companies’ internal control over financial reporting, and attestation of this assessment by their independent registered public accountants. While the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act exempts smaller reporting companies with respect to the attestation by their independent registered public accountants as to our financial controls, this exception does not affect the requirement that we include a report of management on our internal controls over financial reporting and will not affect the requirement to include the auditor's attestation if our public float exceeds $75 million and we cease to be smaller reporting company. Existing standards that must be met for management to assess the internal control over financial reporting as effective are new and complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards. As of June 30, 2012, management has concluded that our controls and procedures were effective. However, we cannot guarantee the implementation of controls and procedures in future years to be without any significant deficiency or material weakness. 47 The issuance and sale of the common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock and exercise of warrants could result in a change of control. If we issue all of the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock and exercise of warrants, the 5,825,237 shares of common stock so issuable would constitute approximately 25.3% of our then outstanding common stock. The percentage would increase to the extent that we are required to issue any additional shares of common stock become upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock pursuant to the anti-dilution and adjustment provisions and pursuant to the liquidated damages provisions of the registration rights agreements executed in connection with the Series A Preferred Stock. Any sale of all or a significant percentage of those shares to a person or group could result in a change of control. We have not and do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock. We have paid no dividends on our common stock to date and it is not anticipated that any dividends will be paid to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. While our future dividend policy will be based on the operating results and capital needs of the business, it is currently anticipated that any earnings will be retained to finance our future expansion and for the implementation of our business plan. As an investor, you should take note of the fact that a lack of a dividend can further affect the market value of our stock, and could significantly affect the value of any investment in our Company. Our common stock could be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market if we are not able to satisfy continued listing requirements, and if this occurs, the price of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital may be adversely affected and the ability to buy and sell our stock may be less orderly and efficient. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. Continued listing of a security on the NASDAQ Global Market is conditioned upon compliance with various continued listing standards. There can be no assurance that we will continue to satisfy the requirements for maintaining a NASDAQ Global Market listing. The standards for continued listing require, among other things, that the closing minimum bid price for the listed securities be at least $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive trading days. The closing bid price for our shares has been less than $1.00 per share since May 18, 2012, and there can be no assurances made that we will satisfy the $1.00 minimum bid price required for continued listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market. We received a letter dated July 2, 2012, from NASDAQ's Listing Qualifications Department, notifying us that during the preceding 30 consecutive business days, the closing bid price of our common stock was below the $1.00 minimum bid price per share required for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. This notification did not result in the immediate delisting of the Company’s common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market. In accordance with NASDAQ rules, the Company has 180 calendar days, or until December 31, 2012, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement by maintaining a closing bid price of $1.00 per share or higher for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. Under the Listing Rules, the NASDAQ staff may exercise its discretion to extend this 10-day period. As of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC, the Company has not regained compliance with the minimum bid price requirement and does not know if it will be able to regain compliance prior to December 31, 2012. If the Company does not achieve compliance, NASDAQ will provide notice to the Company that its common stock is subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market. If the Company receives this notice, it may appeal the delisting determination to the NASDAQ Hearing Panel or may apply to transfer the listing of its common stock to the NASDAQ Capital Market if the Company satisfies all criteria for initial listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market, other than compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. If such application to the NASDAQ Capital Market is approved, then the Company may be eligible for an additional grace period of 180 days. 48 If we are not able to satisfy continued listing requirements of The NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock could be delisted and the price of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital may be adversely affected. As a result, the ability to buy and sell our stock may be less orderly or efficient. If our common stock is delisted from The NASDAQ Stock Market, the Company may be subject to the risks relating to penny stocks. If our common stock is delisted from trading on The NASDAQ Stock Market and the trading price of the common stock is below $5.00 per share on the date the common stock is delisted, trading in our common stock may be subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These rules require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a "penny stock" and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors, generally institutions. These additional requirements may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in securities that are classified as penny stocks, which could severely limit the market price and liquidity of such securities and the ability of purchasers to sell such securities in the secondary market. A penny stock is defined generally as any non-exchange listed equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 