Item 1A. Risk Factors. This Report contains forward-looking statements that are based on our beliefs, assumptions and expectations of future events taking into account the information currently available to us. All statements other than statements of historical fact contained in this Report are forward-looking statements. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performances, financial condition or achievements to differ materially from the expected future results, performances, financial condition or achievements as expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements. In some cases forward-looking statements can be identified by terms such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “seeks,” “predicts,” “projects,” “strives,” “potential,” “objective,” “may,” “could,” “should,” “would,” “will” and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect our current views with respect to future events, are based on our assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Given these uncertainties, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Report. We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in any forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. Our business is subject to numerous risks as discussed more fully below. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash provided by operations could be materially harmed. The following factors, among others, could cause our actual financial performance to differ materially from that expressed in any forward-looking statement. A decline in the popularity of golf or the market for golf-related products and services could materially adversely affect our net sales and profitability. We generate substantially all of our net sales from the sale of golf-related equipment, apparel and services. The demand for our products and services is directly related to the popularity of golf, including the number of golf participants, the number of rounds of golf being played by these participants, and television viewership of and attendance at professional and other golf tournaments and events. According to the NGF, the number of golf rounds played declined slightly from 2001 to 2003 due, we believe, to a number of factors including a decline in the stock market, a weak economy, reduced leisure travel and unfavorable weather. Further, according to the NGF, rounds played increased by 0.7% from 2003 to 2004 and declined 0.1% in 2005. If golf participation or golf rounds played significantly decreases, sales of our products and services could be materially adversely affected. We depend on the exposure of the brands we sell to reinforce the quality of the products we sell. Any significant reduction in television coverage of 21 professional or other golf tournaments and events, or any other significant decreases in either attendance at golf tournaments or viewership of golf tournaments, will reduce the visibility of the brands we sell and could materially adversely affect our net sales and profitability. If our key suppliers limit the amount or variety of products they sell to us or provide us less favorable pricing, allowances or other terms, our sales and profitability could be materially adversely affected. We rely on a limited number of suppliers of the leading national brands in golf for a majority of our sales. During fiscal 2006, we purchased approximately 60% of our merchandise from our five largest suppliers. Three of our suppliers that provide multiple golf brands, namely Acushnet Company (Titleist, FootJoy and Cobra), Taylor Made Golf Company (TaylorMade, adidas and Maxfli) and Callaway Golf Company (Callaway, Odyssey, Top-Flite and Ben Hogan), each represented more than 10% of our purchases. Our extensive assortment of leading national brand merchandise is one of our key competitive strengths. Our customers expect to find the leading national brands and the newest products in the market in our stores. We are also subject to risks, such as the unavailability of raw materials, labor disputes, union organizing activity, strikes, inclement weather, natural disasters, war and terrorism, and adverse general economic and political conditions, as well as the high demand for popular products, that might limit our suppliers’ ability to provide us with quality merchandise on a timely basis. Due to our extensive purchases of merchandise, we benefit from vendor pricing allowances and marketing support in the ordinary course of business. We have no long-term contractual arrangements providing for continued supply, pricing, allowances or other terms from our key suppliers and our suppliers may discontinue selling to us, or may alter pricing, allowances or other terms at any time. If our suppliers refuse to distribute their products to us, limit the amount or variety of products they distribute to us, or provide us with less favorable pricing, allowances or other terms, our sales and profitability may be materially and adversely affected. Our sales and profitability could be materially adversely affected if our suppliers fail to develop and introduce new products or if the introduction of new products results in excessive close-outs of existing inventories. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our suppliers’ continued ability to develop and introduce innovative products in the golf equipment market that appeal to our customers. The success of new products depends in part upon the various subjective preferences of golfers, including a golf club’s “look and feel,” and the level of acceptance that the golf product has among professional and recreational golfers. The subjective preferences of purchasers of golf products are difficult to predict and may be subject to rapid and unanticipated changes. If our suppliers fail to successfully develop and introduce innovative and popular products on a timely basis, then our net sales and profitability may be materially adversely affected. If our suppliers introduce new products too rapidly, however, it could result in close-outs of existing inventories. Close-outs can result in reduced margins on the sale of older products, as well as reduced sales of new products given the availability of older products at lower prices. These reduced margins and sales may materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our business is highly seasonal. Our sales during our first two fiscal quarters of each year, which include Father’s Day, and our sales during the year-end holiday selling season, have historically contributed and are expected to continue to contribute a disproportionate percentage of our net sales. Our occupancy costs, which are included in cost of sales, and a significant portion of our store operating expenses and general and administrative expenses, do not vary proportionately with fluctuations in net sales. As a result, all our income from operations has been generated during the first two fiscal quarters of the year, and we expect this seasonality to continue. In addition, we expect quarterly fluctuations in our operating results to continue as a result of seasonal demand in our markets. Such patterns may change, 22 however, as a result of entering new markets. We also make decisions regarding merchandise well in advance of the season in which it will be sold, particularly for Father’s Day and the year-end holiday selling season. We incur significant additional expenses in our first two fiscal quarters and the December holiday season in anticipation of higher sales in those periods, including acquiring additional inventory, preparing and mailing our direct mail pieces, advertising, creating in-store promotions and hiring additional employees. This seasonality may result in volatility or have an adverse effect on the market price for our common stock. Our profitability may be materially adversely affected due to weather conditions in our markets. The golf season and the number of rounds played in the markets in which our stores are located fluctuate based on, among other things, the weather. In the event of unseasonable weather in our markets, our net sales may be lower. In addition, if our net sales during our peak seasons are lower than we expect for any reason as a result of weather or otherwise, we may not be able to adjust our expenses and inventory in a timely fashion. As a result, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. Our current concentration of stores makes us highly susceptible to adverse conditions in these regions, including unseasonable weather, which could materially adversely affect our sales and profitability. Most of our stores are located in midwestern and northeastern states. As a result, our operations could be more susceptible to regional factors than the operations of more geographically diversified competitors. These factors include regional economic and weather conditions, natural disasters, and demographic and population changes in the states in which we operate. If these regions were to suffer an economic downturn, unseasonable weather or other adverse event, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. If we cannot successfully implement our growth strategy, the profitability of our company as a whole could be materially adversely affected. Our growth strategy will require the deployment of a significant amount of capital and may not be profitable. We opened no new stores in fiscal 2003. During fiscal 2004, we opened four new stores. During fiscal 2005, we opened ten new stores and prepared to open eleven new stores in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. During fiscal 2006 we opened 16 new stores and prepared to open 11 new stores in the first quarter of fiscal 2007, nine of which have already been opened. Our average net cash expenditure needed to open a new store is approximately $1.2 million, which includes the cost of fixed assets, inventory and preopening expenses, and the reductions from landlord allowances and vendor accounts payable. We plan to open a total of 14 to 16 new stores in fiscal 2007, of which nine have already been opened. In addition, we plan to open 16 to 18 new stores in fiscal 2008. These amounts are estimates and actual store opening costs may vary. The ability to open new stores, the related opening costs and the profitability of our new stores are subject to various contingencies, some of which are beyond our control. These contingencies include our ability to: · locate suitable store sites; · negotiate acceptable lease terms; · build out or refurbish sites on a timely and cost-effective basis; · hire, train and retain skilled managers and PGA professionals; · hire sales associates; · obtain adequate capital resources; and · integrate new stores into existing operations successfully. 23 We intend to open additional stores in some of our existing markets. Because our stores typically draw customers from their local areas, a new store may draw customers away from nearby existing stores and may cause sales performance and customer counts at those existing stores to decline, which may materially adversely affect our overall operating results. We also intend to open stores in new markets. The risks associated with entering a new market include difficulties in attracting customers due to a reduced level of customer familiarity with our brand, our lack of familiarity with local customer preferences, seasonal differences in the market, and difficulties in hiring a sufficient number of qualified store associates. In addition, entry into new markets may bring us into competition with new, unfamiliar competitors or with existing competitors with a large, established market presence. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in operating our stores in new markets on a profitable basis. If we are not, then the profitability of our company as a whole may be materially adversely affected. In addition to these risks and uncertainties, our new stores may add strain on our management information systems and may divert our management’s attention from existing operations. We cannot assure you that our new stores will be a profitable deployment of our capital resources. If any of our new stores are not profitable, then the profitability of our company as a whole may be materially adversely affected. Competition in the golf and sporting goods retail industry and from prospective competitors could materially adversely affect our sales and profitability. The retail market for golf-related products and services is highly fragmented and competitive. Our current and prospective competitors include companies that have substantially greater market presence, name recognition, and financial, marketing and other resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to sourcing, promoting and selling their products. We compete with the following categories of companies: other golf specialty retailers, on-course pro shops, catalog and Internet retailers, franchise and independent golf retailers, general sporting goods retailers and mass merchants. Traditional and golf specialty retailers are expanding more aggressively in marketing leading national brand golf equipment, thereby competing directly with us for products, customers and locations. In addition, some of our key suppliers have begun to operate retail stores or Internet sites that sell directly to consumers and may compete with us and reduce our sales. Pressure from our competitors could require us to reduce our prices or increase our spending for advertising and promotion which would erode our margins. As a result of this competition, we may experience lower sales or greater operating costs, such as marketing costs, which would have a material adverse effect on our profitability. A decline in discretionary consumer spending could harm our operating results. Our products are recreational in nature and, therefore, are discretionary purchases for consumers. Consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases of golf-related products and services during favorable economic conditions. Discretionary spending is affected by many factors, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, taxation, stock market performance, unemployment trends, terrorist attacks and acts of war and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Our customers’ purchases of discretionary items, including our products and services, could decline during periods when disposable income is lower or periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. If this occurs, our operating results may be materially adversely affected. 24 The growth of our business will be dependent upon the availability of adequate capital. The growth of our business will depend on the availability of adequate capital, which in turn will depend in large part on cash flow generated by our business and the availability of equity and debt financing. We cannot assure you that our operations will generate positive cash flow or that we will be able to obtain equity or debt financing on acceptable terms or at all. Our credit facility contains provisions that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness or make substantial asset sales that might otherwise be used to finance our expansion. The security interests in our inventory and financial assets that secure our obligations under the credit facility may further limit our access to certain capital markets or lending sources. The actual availability of funds under our credit facility is limited to specified percentages of our eligible inventory. Accordingly, opportunities for increasing our cash on hand through sales of inventory would be partially offset by reduced availability under our credit facility. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to finance our current expansion plans. We may be subject to product warranty claims, product recalls and disruption in the supply of component parts used in The GolfWorks manufacturing operations that could harm our results of operations. The GolfWorks manufactures a proprietary line of club components and club making tools and supplies for sale to our customers. It also assembles finished clubs for sale under the Maltby and Maltby Design brands, as well as for sale by others under their brands. We may be subject to additional risks, including product liability claims, product recalls and disruption in the supply of parts used in the manufacture and assembly of these products, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, while we believe there are sufficient alternative sources to manufacture our golf club components, if any of our current suppliers were to become unable to supply us products, we could experience delays in our ability to secure a replacement supplier which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. If we lose the services of key members of our management team, we may not be able to manage our operations and implement our growth strategy effectively. Our future success depends, in large part, on the efforts and abilities of our executive management team, including our Chief Executive Officer and co-founder, Randall K. Zanatta; our Chief Operating Officer and co-founder, Gregory B. Maanum; our Chief Financial Officer, Richard C. Nordvold; our Chief Marketing Officer, Michael W. McCormick; our Senior Vice President—Sales and Operations, Ronald G. Hornbaker; our Senior Vice President—Chief Technology Officer, Research and Development, Ralph D. Maltby and our Senior Vice President—CEO of The GolfWorks, Mark R. McCormick. Our executive management team may terminate their employment with us and are precluded from competing with us for only six months after such termination (although in connection with our acquisition of The GolfWorks, Mr. Maltby and Mr. Mark R. McCormick agreed not to compete with us for five years). We do not maintain key person insurance on any employees except for Messrs. Zanatta and Maanum. If we lose the services of one or more of our key executives, we may not be able to manage our business successfully or achieve our growth objectives. As our business grows, we will need to attract and retain additional qualified management personnel in a timely manner. We rely heavily on our management information and other systems for inventory management, distribution and other functions. If our systems fail to perform these functions adequately or if we experience an interruption in their operation or security, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our management information systems. We rely heavily on our management information systems to manage order entry, order fulfillment, point-of-sale and inventory replenishment processes. The failure of our management information systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in decreased sales, increased 25 overhead costs, excess inventory and product shortages, causing our business and results of operations to be materially adversely affected. In addition, our management information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: · earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters; and · power loss, computer systems failure, Internet and telecommunications or data network failure. Any such interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to protect the confidential information provided by our eCommerce customers, our sales and profitability may be materially adversely affected. The success of our eCommerce operations depends on the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. There can be no assurance that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other events or developments will not result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we use to protect customer transactions and personal data contained in our customer databases. If any such compromise of our security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition and may cost us additional expense to protect against such security breaches. A disruption in or failure to expand our systems supporting our eCommerce operations, particularly as our eCommerce sales grow, may materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our eCommerce sales will depend on the number of visitors who shop on our Internet sites and the volume of orders we can fill on a timely basis. We rely on several third party providers to host our Internet sites and support our electronic data interchange (EDI) system. Technical problems either we or our third party service providers experience with our Internet sites or order fulfillment systems could materially reduce the volume of goods sold and the attractiveness of purchasing our merchandise through our Internet sites. Also, we or our third party service providers may be required to further expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure if there is a substantial increase in the volume of traffic on our Internet sites or the number of orders placed by our customers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to project accurately the rate or timing of increases, if any, or be able to negotiate with our third party providers, to expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such increases on a timely basis. The adoption of a new GAAP accounting standard for employee stock options will have a significant adverse effect on the reporting of our results of operations. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment, a revision to SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. SFAS No. 123(R) requires the calculation of the fair value of stock-based compensation, estimation of future forfeitures and income taxes, and recognition of the fair value as a non-cash expense over the vesting period of the underlying instruments. SFAS No. 123(R) eliminates the ability to account for stock-based compensation transactions using the footnote disclosure-only provisions of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and instead requires that such transactions be recognized and reflected in financial statements using a fair-value-based method. We implemented the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) effective as of February 26, 2006 and expect to record substantial non-cash compensation expenses as a result. Recording these compensation expenses in our financial statements will have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations. 26 If we do not anticipate and respond to the changing preferences of our customers, we could be required to take significant markdowns in inventory and our sales could materially decline. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to identify and anticipate the changing preferences of our customers and stock our stores with a wide selection of quality merchandise that appeals to their preferences. Our customers’ preferences for merchandise and particular brands vary from location to location, and may vary significantly over time. We cannot guarantee that we will accurately identify or anticipate the changing preferences of our customers or stock our stores with merchandise that appeals to them. If we do not accurately identify and anticipate our customers’ preferences, we may lose sales, which may in turn cause us to lose volume purchasing allowances from vendors, or we may overstock merchandise, which may require us to take significant markdowns on our inventory. In either case, our sales could significantly decline and our business and financial results may be materially adversely affected. A disruption in the services of our primary common carriers or increases in fuel or other charges may decrease our profitability. One of our key strategies is that most of our suppliers distribute their products directly to our retail stores, enabling us to more effectively control the level and mix of inventory at our stores. We use common carriers for substantially all of our ground shipments of products sold in our stores. Any significant interruption in common carrier services due to strikes, terrorism, inclement weather or otherwise, would impede our ability to receive merchandise on a timely basis and maintain appropriate inventory levels and product mixes in our stores. This impediment could cause us to lose sales and customers. In the event of such an interruption, we may not be able to engage appropriate alternatives to distribute our products in a timely manner on equally favorable terms. If we incur higher shipping costs as a result of higher fuel charges or otherwise, we may be unable to pass these costs on to our customers, which could materially decrease our profitability. If we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights, or if we are accused of infringing on a third party’s intellectual property rights, our sales and profitability may be materially adversely affected. Our exclusive right to use our trademarks, service marks and patents in the U.S. has helped establish our market share. The loss or reduction of any of our significant proprietary rights could hurt our ability to distinguish our stores from our competitors’ stores, causing us to lose significant market share. If we lose market share, our sales and profitability may be materially adversely affected. Additionally, third parties may assert claims against us alleging infringement, misappropriation or other violations of patent, trademark or other proprietary rights, whether or not such claims have merit. Such claims can be time consuming and expensive to defend and could require us to cease using and selling the allegedly infringing products, which may have a significant impact on our sales and cause us to incur significant litigation costs and expenses. We may pursue strategic acquisitions, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. In March 2006, we completed the acquisition of The GolfWorks, an important strategic addition to our business. While we are not currently considering any other acquisitions, we may from time to time acquire additional complementary businesses, products or technologies. Acquisitions may result in difficulties in assimilating acquired companies, and may result in the diversion of our capital and our management’s attention from other business issues and opportunities. We may not be able to successfully integrate companies that we acquire, including their personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general store operating procedures. If we fail to successfully integrate acquired companies, our business and financial results could suffer. In addition, the integration of any acquired company, and its financial results, into ours may materially adversely affect our operating results. 27 Our net income in fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005 was positively impacted by non-recurring items which might cause investors to overestimate our future net income. Our net income in fiscal 2005 included a one-time gain on the sale of our Golf Town Canada Inc. stock which increased net income by $5.0 million, after taxes, and our net income for fiscal 2004 included a non-cash income tax benefit totaling $6.2 million resulting from the reversal of a previously established income tax valuation allowance. These non-recurring items might cause investors to overestimate net income results in future years if the non-recurring items are not fully considered. We will be exposed to risks relating to evaluations of controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We have commenced a formal evaluation of our internal controls systems to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting. We will be performing the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are required to comply with Section 404 by the end of fiscal 2007, other than with respect to The GolfWorks, for which we will be required to comply by the end of fiscal 2008. However, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. Furthermore, upon completion of this process, we may identify control deficiencies of varying degrees of severity under applicable SEC and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board rules and regulations that remain unremediated. As a public company, we are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a “material weakness” or changes in internal controls that, or are reasonably likely to, materially affect our internal control over financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. If we fail to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or the Nasdaq National Market, and if we fail to remedy any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, we may face restricted access to the capital markets and our stock price may be adversely affected. The price of our common stock may be volatile. The stock market in general, and the market for stocks of some retailers, have been highly volatile and, as a result, the trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. Investors in our common stock may experience a decrease, which could be substantial, in the value of their stock depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. The factors that could cause fluctuations include, but are not limited to, the following: · price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; · significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of the stock of golf specialty, sporting goods and other retail companies; · actual or anticipated changes in our net income, fluctuations in our operating results or the failure to meet the expectations of financial market analysts and investors; · investor perceptions of the golf and sporting goods industry and retail industries in general and our company in particular; · the operating and stock performance of comparable companies and our competitors; · the opening of new stores and the closing of existing stores; 28 · general economic conditions and trends; · major catastrophic events; · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretation or principles; · unseasonable weather conditions in our markets; · loss of external funding sources; · adverse events affecting our key suppliers; · sales of large blocks of our stock or sales by insiders; and · departures of key personnel. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 