ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risks and uncertainties should be carefully considered. If any of the following occurs, the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. An investment in the Company’s securities is speculative in nature, involves a high degree of risk and should not be made by an investor who cannot bear the economic risk of its investment for an indefinite period of time and who cannot afford the loss of its entire investment. RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY The Company believes it has sufficient funds to conduct its proposed plan of operations in support of the CPX-351 Phase 3 study into the second quarter of 2015. The Company will need to raise additional funding to complete the development and potential commercialization of CPX-351. The Company believes that, with $23.6 million in cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2013, it currently has the resources to fund operations into the second quarter of 2015. However, the Company will need to raise additional capital to: • complete the development and potential commercialization of CPX-351; • fund additional clinical studies of CPX-351 and seek regulatory approvals; • expand its development activities; • implement additional internal systems and infrastructure; and • build or access commercialization and additional manufacturing capabilities and supplies. The Company’s future funding requirements and sources will depend on many factors, including but not limited to: • the rate of progress and cost of its clinical studies, including in particular the Phase 3 study of CPX-351; • the need for additional or expanded clinical studies; • the timing, economic and other terms of any licensing, collaboration or other similar arrangement into which the Company may enter; • the costs and timing of seeking and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals; • the extent of the Company’s other development activities; • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and • the effect of competing technological and market developments. In the event the Company does not successfully raise funds in subsequent financing(s), its product development activities will necessarily be curtailed commensurate with the magnitude of the shortfall or may cease altogether. If the Company’s product development activities are slowed or stopped, the Company will be unable to meet the timelines and projections set forth in this prospectus or prospectus supplements or any related free writing prospectus or incorporated by reference. Failure to progress its product candidates as anticipated will have a negative effect on the Company’s business, future prospects and ability to obtain further financing on acceptable terms (if at all), and the value of the enterprise. The Company has incurred losses since its inception and anticipates that the Company will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. The Company may never achieve or sustain profitability. The Company is not profitable and has incurred losses in each year since its inception in 1999. The Company’s net losses for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were $20.8 million and $10.9 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2013, the Company had an accumulated deficit of $132.5 million. Although the Company believes that it will have sufficient funds to conduct its proposed plan of operations into the second quarter of 2015, there is substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern beyond that time without additional financing. 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS The Company does not currently have any products that have been approved for marketing, and it continues to incur substantial development and general and administrative expenses related to its operations. Therefore, for the foreseeable future, the Company will have to fund all of its operations and capital expenditures from cash on hand and amounts raised in offerings. The Company may not be able to raise capital when needed. The Company expects to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and the Company expects these losses to increase significantly as the Phase 3 study of CPX-351 progresses, as the Company seeks regulatory approvals for CPX-351 and as the Company commercializes CPX-351, if approved. The Company’s losses, among other things, have caused and will continue to cause its stockholders’ equity and working capital to decrease. To date, the Company has derived substantially all of its revenue from a research collaboration agreement with Cephalon, Inc., an agreement with LLS, participation in the federal government’s Qualifying Therapeutic Discovery Project and NJEDA’s Technology Business Tax Certificate Transfer Program. As of March 31, 2012, the research collaboration agreement with Cephalon, Inc. was completed. Moreover, the Company cannot assure that it will enter into any new collaboration agreement(s) that will result in research revenue for the Company. The Company does not anticipate that it will generate revenue from the sale of products for the foreseeable future. The Company’s ability to become profitable depends upon its ability to generate significant continuing revenues. In the absence of additional sources of capital, which may not be available to the Company on acceptable terms, or at all, the development of CPX-351 or future product candidates may be reduced in scope, delayed or terminated. If the Company’s product candidates or those of its collaborators fail in clinical studies or do not gain regulatory approval, or if its future products, if any, do not achieve market acceptance, the Company may never become profitable. Raising additional funds by issuing securities or through licensing or lending arrangements may cause dilution to the Company’s existing stockholders, restrict the Company’s operations or require it to relinquish proprietary rights. The Company may raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or licensing arrangements. To the extent that the Company raises additional capital by issuing equity securities, the share ownership of existing stockholders will be diluted. Any future debt financing the Company enters into may involve covenants that restrict its operations, including limitations on its ability to incur liens or additional debt, pay dividends, redeem its stock, make certain investments and engage in certain merger, consolidation or asset sale transactions, among other restrictions. In addition, if the Company raises additional funds through licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to its product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to the Company. If adequate funds are not available, the Company’s ability to achieve profitability or to respond to competitive pressures will be significantly limited and it may be required to delay, significantly curtail or eliminate the development of one or more of its product candidates. The regulatory approval process is expensive, time-consuming and uncertain and may prevent the Company from obtaining approval for the commercialization of CPX-351 or future product candidates; the Company’s clinical studies for CPX-351 may not demonstrate safety or efficacy or lead to regulatory approval. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record-keeping, import, export, marketing, selling and distribution of product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in the U.S. and other countries, which regulations differ from country to country. In order to develop and potentially submit a New Drug Application to the FDA, it is necessary to submit all information on the clinical, non-clinical, chemistry, manufacturing, controls and quality aspects of the product candidate. 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS Neither the Company nor any potential collaboration partners are permitted to market CPX-351, or future products, if any, in the U.S. until the Company receives approval of an NDA from the FDA, or in any other country without the equivalent marketing approval from such country. The Company has not received marketing approval for CPX-351 in any jurisdiction. In addition, failure to comply with FDA and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory requirements may subject the Company to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions, product seizure or detention, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production, and refusal to approve pending NDAs, supplements to approved NDAs or their foreign equivalents. CPX-351 is vulnerable to the risks of failure inherent in the drug development process. The Company needs to conduct clinical studies and additional activities in order to demonstrate that CPX-351 is safe and effective to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Failure can occur at any stage of the development process, and successful preclinical studies and early clinical studies do not ensure that later clinical studies will be successful. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical studies, even after obtaining promising results in earlier studies. If the clinical studies result in unacceptable toxicity or lack of efficacy, the Company may have to terminate them. If clinical studies are halted, or if they do not show that CPX-351 is safe and effective in the indications for which the Company is seeking regulatory approval, future growth may be limited. The Company does not know whether the Phase 3 clinical study, or any other future clinical studies with CPX-351 or any of its product candidates, will be completed on schedule, or at all, or whether its ongoing or planned clinical studies will begin or progress on the time schedule it anticipates. The commencement and completion of future clinical studies could be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including: • delays or failures to raise additional funding; • results of meetings with the FDA and/or other regulatory bodies; • a limited number of, and competition for, suitable patients with particular types of cancer for enrollment in its clinical studies; • delays or failures in obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical study; • delays or failures in reaching acceptable clinical study agreement terms or clinical study protocols with prospective sites; • delays or failures in obtaining sufficient clinical materials; • delays or failures in obtaining approval from independent institutional review boards to conduct a clinical study at prospective sites; • failure of patients to complete the clinical study; • unforeseen safety issues; • lack of efficacy during clinical studies; or • inability or unwillingness of patients or clinical investigators to follow clinical study protocols. In addition, the Company’s clinical studies may be suspended or terminated at any time by the FDA, other regulatory authorities, or the Company itself. Any failure to complete or significant delay in completing clinical studies for the Company’s product candidates could harm the Company’s financial results and the commercial prospects for the product candidates. Regulatory approval of an NDA or an NDA supplement or a foreign equivalent is not guaranteed, and the approval process is expensive, uncertain and may take years. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. As in the U.S., the 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS regulatory approval process in Europe and in other countries is a lengthy and challenging process. The FDA and other regulatory bodies can delay, limit or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons, including: • the Company may be unable to demonstrate to the satisfaction of regulatory authorities that a product candidate is safe and effective for any indication; • regulatory authorities may not find the data from preclinical studies and clinical studies sufficient or may differ in the interpretation of the data; • the FDA or foreign regulatory authority might not approve the Company’s or the Company’s third-party manufacturers’ processes or facilities for clinical or commercial product; • the FDA or foreign regulatory authority may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations; • the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with the design or implementation of the Company’s clinical studies; • the FDA or foreign regulatory authority may not accept clinical data from studies that are conducted in countries where the standard of care is potentially different; • the results of clinical studies may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities for approval; • the Company may be unable to demonstrate that a product candidate’s clinical and other benefits outweigh its safety risks; and • the data collection from clinical studies of the Company’s product candidates may not be sufficient to support the submission of a NDA or other submission or to obtain regulatory approval in the U.S. or elsewhere. In addition, events raising questions about the safety of certain marketed pharmaceuticals may result in increased caution by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in reviewing new pharmaceuticals based on safety, efficacy or other regulatory considerations and may result in significant delays in obtaining regulatory approvals. The Company relies on third-party distributors and manufacturers for the supply of CPX-351 and the control arm drugs of cytarabine and daunorubicin for the Phase 3 study. Cytarabine was previously in short supply throughout the world, and daunorubicin is currently in short supply in the U.S. There is no guarantee that the Company or any of its clinical study sites will be able to procure sufficient quantities of these drugs to supply the Phase 3 study. The control arm drugs of cytarabine and daunorubicin for the Phase 3 study are procured by the clinical trial sites from third-party distributors. Cytarabine was recently in short supply throughout the world, although the FDA removed it from its drug shortages index in October 2011. Daunorubicin is on the FDA’s current drug shortages index. Clinical study site procurement of cytarabine and daunorubicin is necessary to complete the Phase 3 study. If sites are unable to procure the necessary supplies to support the Phase 3 study in a timely manner, the study will be delayed. Any significant delay could seriously harm the business. To reduce the risk of clinical trial delay, the Company has interacted with the FDA to help procure ex-US manufactured daunorubicin for clinical study sites, if the need arises. If third parties upon which the Company relies to manufacture its supplies fail to obtain approval of the FDA, or other regulatory authorities, fail to provide the Company with sufficient quantities of pharmaceutical product or fail to do so at acceptable quality levels or prices, the Company’s development and commercialization of any of its product candidates could be stopped, delayed or made less profitable. The Company’s CombiPlex products represent formulations with increased manufacturing risks associated with the complexities of producing drug delivery vehicles encapsulating two or more drugs that are maintained at a fixed ratio and, in the case of CPX-351 the two drugs are co-encapsulated in a freeze-dried format. 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS CPX-351 is manufactured on behalf of the Company by a third party contract manufacturer. No assurance can be given that its manufacturers can continue to make clinical and commercial supplies of CPX-351, or future product candidates, at an appropriate scale and cost to make it commercially feasible. Prior to 2011, CPX-351 was manufactured in small batches for use in preclinical and clinical studies. In 2011, a different contract manufacturer was selected to produce CPX-351 at commercial scale and lyophilize the product. The Company’s contract manufacturer has successfully manufactured batches which are currently being used in the Phase 3 clinical study but has also experienced batch failures due to mechanical and component issues. No assurance can be given that the process and product will not experience future batch failures or other delays or setbacks. Any such failure, delay or setback could adversely affect the development and commercialization of CPX-351 by stopping or delaying its Phase 3 study or future product launch and could increase the Company’s manufacturing costs substantially. The facilities used by contract manufacturers to manufacture the Company’s product candidates must be approved by the FDA pursuant to inspections that will be conducted only after the Company submits an NDA to the FDA, if at all. The Company does not control the manufacturing process of its product candidates and is completely dependent on its contract manufacturing partners for compliance with the FDA’s requirements for manufacture of finished pharmaceutical products. If the Company’s contract manufacturers cannot successfully manufacture material that conforms to its specifications and the FDA’s strict regulatory requirements of safety, purity and potency, the Company will not be able to secure and/or maintain FDA approval for its product candidates. In addition, the Company has no control over the ability of its contract manufacturers to maintain adequate quality control, quality assurance and qualified personnel. If its contract manufacturers cannot meet FDA or other regulatory authority standards, the Company may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, which would significantly impact its ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for or market its product candidates. In addition, the Company does not have the capability to package finished products for distribution to hospitals and other customers. Prior to commercial launch, the Company will enter into agreements with one or more alternate fill/finish pharmaceutical product suppliers so that the Company can ensure proper supply chain management once the Company is authorized to make commercial sales of its product candidates. If the Company receives marketing approval from the FDA, it intends to sell pharmaceutical product finished and packaged by such suppliers. Although the Company has entered into agreements with its current contract manufacturers and fill/finish suppliers for clinical trial material, it may be unable to maintain an agreement on commercially reasonable terms, which could have a material adverse impact upon its business. In most cases, the Company’s manufacturing partner is a single-source supplier. It is expected that the Company’s manufacturing partner will be a sole source supplier from a single site location for the foreseeable future. Given this, any disruption of supply from this partner could have a material, long-term impact on the Company’s ability to supply products for clinical studies or commercial sale. Additionally, while there are other contract manufacturers that may be able to produce CPX-351, the proprietary technology that supports the manufacture of CPX-351 is not easily transferrable. If the Company’s supplier does not deliver sufficient quantities of CPX-351 on a timely basis, or at all, and in accordance with applicable specifications, there could be a significant interruption of the Company’s supply of CPX-351, which would adversely affect clinical development and commercialization of the product. The Company’s products may be subject to technology risks that may restrict or prevent their development and commercialization. Developing products based on the Company’s technology platform, known as CombiPlex, is subject to development risks. CPX-351 represents the first injectable fixed ratio, drug delivery combination product that the FDA will be considering for approval. While the Company has attempted to address potential issues that may be unique to such a combination product, it is possible that the FDA may consider the studies performed by the Company to be deficient, resulting in a delay of approval or possibly a refusal decision. Also, while the Company believes that it has a patent portfolio protecting the CombiPlex technology and the Company’s product candidates, it is possible that a technology unknown presently by the Company may be developed that is able to deliver drug combinations in a manner that provides the benefits of CombiPlex without contravening any of the Company’s patents. 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS The Company relies on third parties to conduct its clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or fail to meet expected deadlines, the Company may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for, or commercialize its products. The Company relies on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators to conduct the Company’s planned clinical studies for CPX-351. If the third parties conducting the Company’s clinical studies do not perform their contractual duties or obligations, do not meet expected deadlines or need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to the Company’s clinical study protocols or for any other reason, the Company may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties and the clinical studies may be extended, delayed or terminated or may need to be repeated, and the Company may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize the product candidate. The failure to enroll patients in clinical studies may cause delays in developing CPX-351. The Company will encounter delays if it is unable to enroll enough patients to complete clinical studies of CPX-351, including the Phase 3 study. The Company’s Phase 3 study is designed to enroll 300 patients with sAML. Patient enrollment depends upon many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the number and nature of competing treatments and ongoing clinical studies of competing drugs for the same indication and the eligibility criteria for the study. Patients participating in the Company’s studies may elect to leave the studies and switch to alternative treatments that are available to the patients, either commercially or on an expanded access basis, or in other clinical studies. Competing treatments may include nucleoside analogs, anthracyclines, topoisomerase II inhibitors and hypomethylating agents. Moreover, when a product candidate is evaluated in multiple clinical studies simultaneously; patient enrollment in ongoing studies can be adversely affected if negative results are reported from other studies. In the Phase 3 study, CPX-351 is being tested in patients with sAML, which can be a difficult patient population to recruit. Because the results of preclinical studies and early clinical studies are not necessarily predictive of future results, any product candidate the Company advances, in clinical studies may not have favorable results in later clinical studies or receive regulatory approval. Pharmaceutical development has inherent risk. The Company will be required to demonstrate through adequate and well-controlled clinical studies that CPX-351 and future product candidates, if any, are effective with a favorable benefit-risk profile for use in diverse populations for their target indications before the Company can seek regulatory approval for their commercial sale. Success in early clinical studies does not mean that later clinical studies will be successful because product candidates in later-stage clinical studies may fail to demonstrate sufficient safety or efficacy despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. Companies frequently suffer significant setbacks in advanced clinical studies, even after earlier clinical studies have shown promising results. In addition, there is a high rate of attrition from the failure of pharmaceutical candidates proceeding through clinical studies. The Company believes that the research that has been performed, both pre-clinically and clinically, cannot by its nature provide conclusive evidence that the product provides a completely antagonism-free approach to AML treatment. The Company plans to conduct additional clinical studies with CPX-351. If the results from the Phase 3 study are significantly different from those found in the completed Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical studies of CPX-351, the Company will likely need to terminate or revise its clinical development plan, which could extend the time for conducting its development program and could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The in vitro and in vivo preclinical models utilized by the Company to guide selection of drug ratios for encapsulation and delivery in vivo using liposomes or nanoparticles may not be representative of the response tumor cells have to drug ratios in patients. The tumor cell lines used to test for drug ratio-dependent synergy in vitro are maintained under conditions that can change their response to anticancer drugs relative to how they behave in vivo. Similarly, the tumor cells growing in preclinical cancer models may not respond to anticancer drugs the way tumor cells 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS respond in human patients. Accordingly, there is the risk that the drug ratios contained in the Company’s products may not be optimal for clinical activity. Any product candidate the Company advances into clinical studies may cause unacceptable adverse events or have other properties that may delay or prevent the regulatory approval or commercialization of the product candidate or limit the commercial potential of the product candidate. Unacceptable adverse events caused by any of the Company’s product candidates could cause regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical studies and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications. This, in turn, could prevent the Company from commercializing the affected product candidate and generating revenues from its sale. To date, clinical studies using CPX-351 have demonstrated a toxicity profile that was deemed acceptable by the investigators performing such studies. In the pre-chemotherapy era, AML invariably led to death from infections or major bleeding events within weeks to months of diagnosis. Active AML leads to death by producing a general shut down of hematopoietic function with loss of functional neutrophils and marked reductions in platelets and red blood cells. Loss of neutrophil function inevitably leads to risk of severe infections and loss of platelets leads to risk of major bleeding events. In this setting, physicians have traditionally accepted the risk of high rates of adverse events, including severe or life threatening but reversible adverse events, provided there is evidence of greater benefit in the form of objective response and prolonged survival. The balancing of risk and benefit occurs at the start of every treatment course, and every investigator understands that the risk of withholding potentially toxic but useful treatment is death from progressive AML within a short period of time. The Company has found that the toxicity profile of CPX-351 is acceptable to investigators for the following reasons: • Qualitatively, the adverse events observed are similar to the safety profile of the 7+3 regimen, considered the standard of care or initial treatment; • the 60-day mortality associated with CPX-351 was less than that observed with the 7+3 regimen (4.7% vs. 14.6% in newly diagnosed AML patients), indicating that the adverse events associated with CPX-351 treatment resulted in fewer deaths than standard of care treatment; and • the rate of response, event-free survival, and overall survival were similar to control arm for lower risk patients and favorable compared to control arm for higher risk patients, particularly for patients with secondary AML. In summary, the adverse event profile is acceptable to investigators because no unacceptable adverse events have been encountered and the benefits of treatment appear to outweigh the risks. Adverse events experienced by 25% or more of patients receiving CPX-351 are as follows: rash, febrile neutropenia, nausea, diarrhea, pain, constipation, fatigue, bacteremia, pyrexia, chills, localized edema, decreased appetite, vomiting, cough, headache, dyspnea, epistaxis, stomatitis and hypokalemia. Such interpretation may not be shared by future investigators or by the FDA and, even if deemed acceptable for specific oncology applications, such as the completed clinical studies, it may not be acceptable for diseases in other oncology settings. Additionally, the severity, duration and incidence of adverse events may differ in larger study populations. The toxicity of CPX-351 manufactured under different conditions is not known, and it is possible that additional and/or different adverse events may appear upon the human use of those formulations and those adverse events may arise with greater frequency, intensity and duration than in the current formulation. If any of the Company’s product candidates cause unacceptable adverse events in clinical studies, the Company may not be able to obtain marketing approval and generate revenues from its sale. If any of the Company’s product candidates receive marketing approval and the Company or others later identify unacceptable adverse events caused by the product, a number of significant negative consequences could result, including: • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the affected product; • regulatory authorities may require a more significant clinical benefit for approval to offset the risk; 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements that could diminish the usage of the product or otherwise limit the commercial success of the affected product; • the Company may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical studies or change the labeling of the product; • the Company may choose to discontinue sale of the product; • the Company could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; • the Company may not be able to enter into collaboration agreements on acceptable terms and execute on the Company’s business model; and • the Company’s reputation may suffer. Any one or a combination of these events could prevent the Company from obtaining regulatory approval and achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the affected product, which in turn could delay or prevent the Company from generating any revenues from the sale of the affected product. The Company may experience delays in the commencement of its clinical studies with CPX-351 or future product candidates, or in the receipt of data from preclinical and clinical studies conducted by third parties, which could result in increased costs and delay its ability to pursue regulatory approval. Delays in the commencement of clinical studies and delays in the receipt of data from preclinical or clinical studies conducted by third parties could significantly impact the Company’s product development costs. Before the Company can initiate clinical studies in the U.S. for future product candidates, it must submit the results of preclinical testing, usually in animals, to the FDA as part of an Investigational New Drug (“IND”) submission, along with other information including information about product chemistry, manufacturing and controls and its proposed clinical study protocol for its product candidates. With CPX-351, a single Phase 1 clinical study was conducted and two randomized, controlled Phase 2 clinical studies were conducted in patients with AML. The rationale for the Phase 3 study is based on clinical study results from two Phase 2 studies, but results from earlier phase clinical studies do not guarantee the outcomes of later clinical studies. The Company currently plans to rely on third parties for the Phase 3 study of CPX-351. If receipt of data from these third parties is delayed for any reason, including reasons outside of the Company’s control, it will delay the Company’s plans for the Phase 3 study and other clinical study plans. This, in turn, will delay the Company’s ability to make regulatory filings and ultimately, to commercialize its products (if regulatory approval is obtained). Potential conflicts of interest arising from relationships and any related compensation with respect to clinical studies could adversely affect the process. Principal investigators for the Company’s clinical studies may serve as scientific advisors or consultants to the Company from time to time and receive cash compensation in connection with such services. If these relationships and any related compensation result in perceived or actual conflicts of interest, the integrity of the data generated at the applicable clinical study site may be questioned or jeopardized. The Company may be subject to costly claims related to its clinical studies and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. Because the Company conducts clinical studies in humans, the Company faces the risk that the use of CPX-351 or future product candidates, if any, will result in adverse side effects. The Company cannot predict the possible harms or side effects that may result from its clinical studies. Although the Company has clinical study liability insurance for up to $10.0 million in aggregate, the Company’s insurance may be insufficient to cover any such events. There is also a risk that the Company may not be able to continue to obtain clinical study coverage on acceptable terms. In addition, the Company may not have sufficient resources to pay for any liabilities resulting from a claim excluded from, or beyond the limit of, the Company’s insurance coverage. There is also a risk that third parties that the Company has agreed to indemnify could incur liability. 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS Any litigation arising from its clinical studies, even if the Company is ultimately successful, would consume substantial amounts of the Company’s financial and managerial resources and may create adverse publicity. If the Company’s competitors develop and market products that are more effective, safer or less expensive than CPX-351, the Company’s commercial opportunities may be negatively impacted. The life sciences industry is highly competitive, and the Company faces significant competition from many pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and possibly from academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions that are researching, developing and marketing products designed to address the treatment of cancer, including AML. Many of the Company’s competitors have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and drug development resources than the Company. Large pharmaceutical companies, in particular, have extensive experience in the clinical testing of, obtaining regulatory approvals for, and marketing of, drugs. New developments, including the development of other pharmaceutical technologies and methods of treating disease, occur in the pharmaceutical and life sciences industries at a rapid pace. These developments may render the Company’s product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. Compared to the Company, potential competitors may have substantially greater: • research and development resources, including personnel and technology; • regulatory experience; • pharmaceutical development, clinical study and pharmaceutical commercialization experience; • experience and expertise in exploitation of intellectual property rights; and • capital resources. As a result of these factors, the Company’s competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their products more rapidly than the Company or may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limit the Company’s ability to develop or commercialize its product candidates. The Company’s competitors may also develop products for the treatment of AML that are more effective, better tolerated, more useful and less costly than the Company’s products and may also be more successful in manufacturing and marketing their products. Potential competitors may succeed in obtaining approvals from the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities for their product candidates sooner than the Company does for its products. A key consideration when treating AML patients is whether the patient is suitable for intensive therapy. The standard of care for the treatment of newly diagnosed AML patients who can tolerate intensive therapy is cytarabine in combination with an anthracycline (i.e., daunorubicin) — for some patients, primarily those less than 60 years of age, a stem cell transplant could also be considered. The regimen of cytarabine in combination with an anthracycline has been the standard of care for decades. A patient not suitable for intensive therapy may be offered the option for low-intensity therapy such as low-dose cytarabine, azacitidine or decitabine or possibly intermediate intensity therapy such as clofarabine. It should be noted that, in the U.S., azacitidine, decitabine and clofarabine are not approved by the FDA for the treatment of AML patients. The initial focus for CPX-351 development is in patients who can tolerate intensive therapy. The Company is aware of products in development being studied for use as treatment options for AML patients. However, most of the products are being studied in different patient populations (i.e., relapsed or refractory patients, patients who are deemed unsuitable for intensive chemotherapy) than the intended Phase 3 study population with CPX-351. The list below shows some of the products of which the Company is aware of in late-stage development: • Sunesis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is developing vosaroxin in combination with cytarabine for patients with first relapse or refractory AML, for which a Phase 3 study has completed enrollment. • Cyclacel Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is developing sapacitabine, alternating cycles of treatment with decitabine (decitabine followed by sapacitabine), for elderly patients aged 70 years or older with newly diagnosed AML who are not candidates for, or have refused, induction chemotherapy, for which a Phase 3 study is open for enrollment. 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS • Eisai Co., Ltd.’s, Dacogen (decitabine) is currently on the market because it was initially approved for use in another hematologic malignancy. Based on the Phase 3 study results, the FDA did not approve use of the product in elderly patients aged 65 or older with newly diagnosed AML who are not considered candidates for induction therapy, but the European Commission did approve its use in this population. • Celgene Corporation’s Vidaza (azacitidine) has been approved by the European Commission for use in adults who cannot have a bone marrow transplant in patients with AML that has developed from myelodysplastic syndrome when the bone marrow consists of 20%-30% abnormal cells. The product is currently on the market in the U.S. because it was approved for use in another hematologic malignancy. The FDA has not approved this product for use in AML. A Phase 3 study in elderly patients aged 65 or older with newly diagnosed AML is ongoing, and new patients are not currently being recruited. • Ambit Biosciences is developing quizartinib, a FLT3 inhibitor, as a treatment for patients with relapsed or refractory AML. The company has completed Phase 2 studies and expects to start a Phase 3 study in 1H2014, in AML patients 18 years and above who are FLT3 positive in first salvage. • Boehringer Ingelheim is developing volasertib, a Plk inhibitor, as a treatment for patients who are ineligible for intensive chemotherapy. A Phase 3 study investigating volasertib in combination with low dose cytarabine, in patients aged 65 years and above with previously untreated AML who are ineligible for intensive remission induction therapy is currently enrolling patients. The Company may also face competition from these organizations in recruiting and retaining qualified personnel, establishing clinical study sites and enrolling patients for clinical studies. The Company believes that its ability to successfully compete in the marketplace with CPX-351 and any future product candidates will depend on, among other things: • the ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel to help the Company advance CPX-351 and future product candidates, if any; • the ability to develop novel products with attractive pharmaceutical properties and to secure, protect and maintain intellectual property rights based on the Company’s innovations; • the efficacy, safety and reliability of the product candidates; • the speed at which the Company develops its product candidates; • the ability to design and successfully execute appropriate clinical studies; • the ability to maintain a good relationship with regulatory authorities; • the ability to obtain, and the timing and scope of, regulatory approvals; • the ability to manufacture clinical trial supplies of CPX-351 and future products, if any; • the ability to manufacture and sell commercial quantities of future products to the market; and • acceptance of future products by physicians and other healthcare providers. CPX-351 is a small molecule therapeutic that will compete with other drugs and therapies currently used for AML, such as nucleoside analogs, anthracyclines, hypomethylating agents, inhibitors of topoisomerase II and other novel agents. Additionally, other products currently in development could become potential competitors of CPX-351 if the products are approved for marketing. The Company expects competition for CPX-351 for the treatment of AML to increase as additional products are developed and approved in various patient populations. If the competitors’ market products that are more effective, safer or less expensive than CPX-351 or its other future products, if any, or that reach the market sooner, the Company may not achieve substantial market penetration or commercial success. 37 TABLE OF CONTENTS If any product candidate that the Company successfully develops does not achieve broad market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community, the revenues that it generates from its sales will be limited. Even if CPX-351 or any other product candidates receive regulatory approval, the products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community. Coverage and reimbursement of the Company’s product candidates by third-party payors, including government payors, generally is also necessary for commercial success. The degree of market acceptance of any of the Company’s approved products will depend upon a number of factors, including: • the efficacy and safety, as demonstrated in clinical studies; • the risk/benefit profile of the Company’s products such as CPX-351; • the prevalence and severity of any side effects; • the clinical indications for which the product is approved; • acceptance by physicians, key members of the healthcare team at cancer centers and patients of the product as a safe and effective treatment; • the potential and perceived advantages of product candidates over alternative treatments; • the safety of product candidates seen in a broader patient group; • the cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments; • the timing of market introduction of competitive products; • the availability of adequate reimbursement and pricing by third parties and government authorities; • relative convenience and ease of administration; and • the effectiveness of the Company’s sales, marketing and distribution efforts. If any product candidate is approved but does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, hospitals, healthcare payors and patients, the Company may not generate sufficient revenue from these products and the Company may not become or remain profitable. Even if the Company receives regulatory approval for CPX-351, the Company will be subject to ongoing FDA and other regulatory obligations and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense and limit the Company’s ability to commercialize CPX-351. Any regulatory approvals that the Company or potential collaboration partners receive for CPX-351 or future product candidates, if any, may also be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing studies. In addition, even if approved, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for any product will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restrictions on the marketing of the product, and could include withdrawal of the product from the market. Regulatory policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of the Company’s product candidates. The Company cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the U.S. or abroad. If the Company is not able to maintain regulatory compliance, the Company might not be permitted to market CPX-351 or future products, if any, and the Company may not achieve or sustain profitability. If product liability lawsuits are brought against it, the Company may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of its product candidates. The Company faces an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of its product candidates in human clinical studies, and will face an even greater risk if it sells its product candidates 38 TABLE OF CONTENTS commercially. An individual may bring a liability claim against the Company if one of its product candidates causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. If the Company cannot successfully defend itself against product liability claims, it will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for its product candidates; • impairment to its business reputation; • withdrawal of clinical study participants; • costs of related litigation; • distraction of management’s attention from its primary business; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • the inability to commercialize its product candidates; and • loss of revenues. The Company carries product liability insurance for its clinical studies. Further, the Company intends to expand its insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if marketing approval is obtained for any of its product candidates. However, the Company may be unable to obtain this product liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms and with insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action or individual lawsuits relating to marketed pharmaceuticals. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against the Company could cause its stock price to decline and, if judgments exceed its insurance coverage, could decrease its cash and adversely affect its business. Reimbursement may be limited or unavailable in certain market segments for the Company’s product candidates, which could make it difficult for the Company to sell its products profitably. The Company intends to seek approval to market its future products in both the U.S. and in countries outside the U.S. If the Company obtains approval in one or more foreign countries, it will be subject to rules and regulations in those countries relating to its product. In some foreign countries, particularly in the European Union, the pricing of pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with government authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product candidate. In addition, market acceptance and sales of the Company’s product candidates will depend significantly upon the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for any of its product candidates and may be affected by existing and future healthcare reform measures. Government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which pharmaceuticals they will cover and reimburse and establish reimbursement levels. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including the third-party payor’s determination that use of a product is: • a covered benefit under its health plan; • safe, effective and medically necessary; • appropriate for the specific patient; • cost-effective; and • neither experimental nor investigational. Obtaining coverage and reimbursement approval for a product from a government or other third-party payor is a time-consuming and costly process that could require the Company to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of its products to the payor. The Company may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to coverage and reimbursement. If reimbursement of the Company’s future products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, the Company may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. 39 TABLE OF CONTENTS In both the U.S. and certain foreign countries, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the healthcare system that could impact the Company’s ability to sell its products profitably. In particular, the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 revised the payment methodology for many products reimbursed by Medicare, resulting in lower rates of reimbursement for many types of drugs, and added a prescription drug benefit to the Medicare program that involves commercial plans negotiating drug prices for their members. Since 2003, there have been a number of other legislative and regulatory changes to the coverage and reimbursement landscape for pharmaceuticals. Most recently, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, collectively, the “Affordable Care Act,” was enacted. The Affordable Care Act contains a number of provisions, including those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, the increased use of comparative effectiveness research on healthcare products, reimbursement and fraud and abuse changes, all of which will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs. An expansion in the government’s role in the U.S. healthcare industry may further lower rates of reimbursement for pharmaceutical products. There have been, and likely will continue to be, legislative and regulatory proposals at the federal and state levels directed at broadening the availability of healthcare and containing or lowering the cost of healthcare products and services. The Company cannot predict the initiatives that may be adopted in the future. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of healthcare services to contain or reduce costs of healthcare may adversely affect: • the demand for any products for which the Company may obtain regulatory approval; • the Company’s ability to set a price that it believes is fair for its products; • the Company’s ability to generate revenues and achieve or maintain profitability; • the level of taxes that the Company is required to pay; and • the availability of capital. In addition, governments may impose price controls, which may adversely affect profitability if products are sold in those countries. The Company expects to expand its development capabilities, and any difficulties hiring or retaining key personnel or managing this growth could disrupt the Company’s operations. The Company is highly dependent on the principal members of its development staff. Future growth will require the Company to continue to implement and improve its managerial, operational and financial systems and continue to retain, recruit and train additional qualified personnel, which may impose a strain on its administrative and operational infrastructure. The competition for qualified personnel in the biopharmaceutical field is intense. As of December 31, 2013, the Company had 21 full-time employees. The Company may need to expand its managerial, operational, financial and other resources in order to manage and fund its operations and clinical studies, continue its research and development activities, and commercialize its product candidates. The Company is highly dependent on the continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and specialized personnel required for the manufacture of its products, the clinical development of the product candidates and the potential commercialization of the product candidates. Due to limited resources, the Company may not be able to effectively manage any expansion of its operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. If the Company is unable to retain key personnel or manage its growth effectively, the Company may not be able to implement its business plan. The Company has, in the past, implemented workforce reductions. Depending on the Company’s need for additional funding and expense control, the Company may be required to implement further workforce and expense reductions in the future. Further workforce and expense reductions could result in reduced progress of the Company’s programs. In addition, the implementation of expense reduction programs may result in the diversion of efforts of the Company’s executive management team and other key employees, which could adversely affect the Company’s business. 40 TABLE OF CONTENTS The Company currently has no commercial organization (i.e., marketing, sales, and distribution). If the Company is unable to develop a commercial infrastructure on its own or through collaborations with partners, the Company will not be successful in commercializing CPX-351. The Company currently has a Chief Business Officer but no other commercial infrastructure (i.e., marketing, sales or distribution capabilities) for its product candidates and must build this infrastructure or make arrangements with third-parties to perform these functions in order to commercialize its products. If the Company needs to establish this capability it will be expensive and time consuming. Any failure or delay in the development of this capability would adversely impact the commercialization of CPX-351 or future product candidates, if any. If the Company fails to comply with healthcare regulations, it could face substantial penalties and its business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition to FDA restrictions on the marketing of pharmaceutical products, several other types of state and federal laws have been applied to restrict certain marketing practices in the pharmaceutical and medical device industries in recent years, as well as consulting or other service agreements with physicians or other potential referral sources. These laws include anti-kickback statutes and false claims statutes that prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or, in return for, purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally-financed healthcare programs, and knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services, reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and any practices the Company adopts may not, in all cases, meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. Any challenge to its business practices under these laws could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company uses hazardous materials, and any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time-consuming or costly. The Company uses hazardous materials, which could be dangerous to human health and safety or to the environment. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and wastes. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental laws and regulations may impair the Company’s pharmaceutical development efforts. In addition, the Company cannot entirely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials or wastes. If one of the Company’s employees were to be accidentally injured from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials or wastes, the medical costs related to the employee’s treatment may be covered by its workers’ compensation insurance policy. However, the Company does not carry specific hazardous waste insurance coverage and its property and casualty and general liability insurance policies specifically exclude coverage for damages and fines arising from hazardous waste exposure or contamination. Accordingly, in the event of contamination or injury, the Company could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines in an amount exceeding its resources, and its operations could be adversely affected. 41 TABLE OF CONTENTS The Company is an “emerging growth company” and may elect to comply with reduced public company reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, which could make the Company’s common stock less attractive to investors. The Company is an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act enacted in April 2012. For as long as the Company continues to be an “emerging growth company,” the Company may choose to take advantage of exemptions from various public company reporting requirements. These exemptions include, but are not limited to, • not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; • reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in the Company’s periodic reports and proxy statements; and • exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. The Company can be an “emerging growth company” for up to five years after the first sale of its common equity securities pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, which occurred on June 10, 2013 when the SEC declared effective the Company’s Form S-1 registration statement. However, if certain events occur prior to the end of such five year period, including if the Company becomes a “large accelerated filer,” its annual gross revenues exceed $1 billion or it issues more than $1 billion of non-convertible debt in any three-year period, the Company will cease to be an “emerging growth company” prior to the end of such five-year period. The Company cannot predict whether investors will find the Company’s common stock less attractive if it chooses to rely on these exemptions. If some investors find the Company’s common stock less attractive as a result of any choice the Company makes to reduce future disclosure, there may be a less active trading market for the Company’s common stock and its common stock price may be more volatile. The Company also qualifies at this time as a “smaller reporting company.” Many of the reduced disclosure obligations which are applicable to emerging growth companies apply to smaller reporting companies. Under the JOBS Act, “emerging growth companies” can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies, which is not available for smaller reporting companies. However, the Company has irrevocably elected not to avail itself of this extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, the Company will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies.” The Company has and will continue to incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, particularly once the Company ceases to be an “emerging growth company,” and the Company’s management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a public reporting company, the Company will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that it did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ, have imposed various requirements on public companies, including establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and corporate governance practices. The Company’s management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase the Company’s legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time consuming and costly. For example, the Company expects that these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for the Company to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and the Company may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, the Company is required to furnish a report by its management on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting beginning with this Form 10-K. Once the Company ceases to be an “emerging growth company,” an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting will be required to be issued by the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm. To achieve compliance with Section 404 within the prescribed time period, the Company has 42 TABLE OF CONTENTS engaged in a process to document and evaluate the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, which is both costly and challenging. In this regard, the Company will need to continue to dedicate internal resources, engage outside consultants and adopt a detailed work plan to assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, continue steps to improve control processes as appropriate, validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented and implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. Despite the Company’s efforts, there is a risk that neither the Company nor, when required, its independent registered public accounting firm will be able to conclude within the prescribed timeframe that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is effective as required by Section 404. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of the Company’s financial statements. The Company expects that the additional reporting and other obligations imposed on the Company by these rules and regulations and compliance with evolving interpretations of new or changed legal requirements may cause the Company to incur higher costs as the Company revises current practices, policies and procedures, and may divert management time and attention from potential revenue-generating activities to compliance matters. If the Company’s efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, the Company’s reputation may also be harmed. Further, the Company’s board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, the Company may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm the Company’s business. Changing economic conditions may make it costly and difficult to raise additional capital. The Company’s results of operations could be materially affected by economic conditions generally, both in the U.S. and around the world. Economic conditions are cyclical, and, in recent years, there has been turmoil in the world economy, which has led to volatility on the U.S. stock market and reduced credit availability. If economic conditions worsen and affect the capital markets, the Company’s ability to raise capital may be adversely affected. The Company is exposed to risks related to foreign currency exchange rates. Some of the Company’s costs and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies. Most of the Company’s foreign expenses are associated with activities related to the Phase 3 study of CPX-351 that occur outside of the U.S. When the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currency, the U.S. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated expense increases, and when the U.S. dollar strengthens against the foreign currency, the U.S. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated expense decreases. Consequently, changes in exchange rates, and in particular a weakening of the U.S. dollar, may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company may not be able to recover from any catastrophic event affecting its suppliers or facilities. While the Company’s suppliers have measures in place to minimize and recover from catastrophic events that may substantially destroy their capability to meet customer needs, these measures may not be adequate to recover production processes quickly enough to support critical timelines or market demands. These catastrophic events may include weather events such as tornadoes, earthquakes, floods or fires. In addition, these catastrophic events may render some or all of the products at the affected facilities unusable. RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANY’S INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY The Company’s success depends upon its ability to protect and enforce its proprietary technologies and its intellectual property, and third party intellectual property may limit or interfere with, or eliminate its ability to make, use and sell the Company’s potential products. The Company’s commercial success depends on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection for its product candidates and their formulations and uses, as well as successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges. If the Company fails to appropriately prosecute and maintain patent protection for these product candidates, its ability to develop and commercialize these product 43 TABLE OF CONTENTS candidates may be adversely affected and the Company may not be able to prevent competitors from making, using and selling competing products. This failure to properly protect the intellectual property rights relating to these product candidates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The patent application process is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, and there can be no assurance that the Company or its partners will be successful in protecting its product candidates by obtaining and defending patents. These risks and uncertainties include the following: • the patent applications that the Company files may not result in patents being issued; • patents that are or may be issued or in-licensed may be challenged, invalidated, modified, revoked or circumvented, or otherwise may not provide any competitive advantage; • the Company’s competitors may seek, or may already have obtained, patents that will limit, interfere with, or eliminate its ability to make, use, and sell the Company’s potential products either in the U.S. or in international markets; • there may be significant pressure on the U.S. government and other international governmental bodies to limit the scope of patent protection both inside and outside the U.S. for disease treatments that prove successful as a matter of public policy regarding worldwide health concerns; and • countries other than the U.S. may have less restrictive patent laws than those upheld by U.S. courts, allowing foreign competitors the ability to exploit these laws to create, develop and market competing products. In addition to patents and trademarks, the Company also relies on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. Although the Company has taken steps to protect its trade secrets and unpatented know-how, including entering into confidentiality agreements with third parties, and confidential information and inventions agreements with employees, consultants and advisors, third parties may still obtain this information or the Company may be unable to protect its rights. If any of these events occurs, or the Company otherwise loses protection for its trade secrets or proprietary know-how, the value of this information may be greatly reduced. Patent protection and other intellectual property protection are crucial to the success of the Company’s business and prospects, and there is a risk that such protections will prove inadequate. If the Company is sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time-consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation would have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company’s commercial success also depends upon its ability and the ability of any of its future collaborators to develop, manufacture, market and sell its product candidates without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications that are owned by third parties exist in the fields in which the Company is developing products. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to the Company, which may later result in issued patents that its product candidates or proprietary technologies may infringe. Similarly, there may be issued patents relevant to its product candidates of which the Company is not aware. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that the Company or any collaborators of the Company infringe the third party’s intellectual property rights, the Company may have to: • obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; • abandon a potentially infringing product candidate or redesign its products or processes to avoid infringement; 44 TABLE OF CONTENTS • pay substantial damages (including, in “extraordinary cases,” treble damages and attorneys’ fees), which the Company may have to pay if a court decides that the product or proprietary technology at issue infringes upon or violates the third party’s rights; • pay substantial royalties, fees and/or grant cross licenses to its technology; and/or • defend litigation or administrative proceedings, which may be costly whether the Company wins or loses, and which could result in a substantial diversion of its financial and management resources. Other product candidates that the Company may in-license or acquire could be subject to similar risks and uncertainties. The Company may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce its patents or the patents of its licensors, which could be expensive, time-consuming and unsuccessful. Competitors may infringe the Company’s patents or the patents of the Company’s licensors. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, the Company may be required to file infringement claims, which typically are very expensive, time-consuming and disruptive of day-to-day business operations. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that one or more of the Company’s patents or patents of the Company’s licensors is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that the Company’s patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of the Company’s patents at risk of being invalidated, held unenforceable, or interpreted narrowly. The adverse result could also put related patent applications at risk of not issuing. Interference proceedings provoked by third parties or brought by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (“PTO”) may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to the Company’s patents or patent applications or those of its collaborators or licensors. An unfavorable outcome could require the Company to cease using the related technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. The Company’s business could be harmed if the prevailing party does not offer it a license on commercially reasonable terms. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distract the Company’s management and other employees. The Company may not be able to prevent, alone or with its licensors, misappropriation of its trade secrets or confidential information, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the U.S. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of its confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of the Company’s common stock. The Company may be subject to claims that its consultants or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their other clients or former employers to the Company. As is common in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, the Company engages the services of consultants to assist it in the development of its product candidates. Many of these consultants were previously employed at, may have previously been, or are currently providing consulting services to, other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including the Company’s competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against the Company are currently pending, the Company may be subject to claims that these consultants or the Company has inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers or their former or current customers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if the Company is successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management and day-to-day business operations. 45 TABLE OF CONTENTS RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S COMMON STOCK The price of the Company’s common stock may continue to be volatile, and the value of an investment in the Company’s common stock may decline. The Company’s common stock was initially listed and traded on the OTC Bulletin Board from September 12, 2013 until November 8, 2013. While the common stock was on the OTC Bulletin Board, it was thinly traded and the stock price was volatile. On November 11, 2013 the Company’s common stock was listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Since listing on NASDAQ, the Company’s common stock has traded as low as $2.92 and as high as $4.67. Factors that could cause continued volatility in the market price of the Company’s common stock include, but are not limited to: • the Company’s ability to raise additional capital to carry through with clinical development plans and current and future operations and the terms of any related financing arrangement; • results from, and any delays in or discontinuance of, ongoing and planned clinical studies of CPX-351; • announcements of FDA non-approval of CPX-351, delays in filing regulatory documents with the FDA or other regulatory agencies or delays in the review process by the FDA or other foreign regulatory agencies; • announcements relating to restructuring and other operational changes; • delays in the commercialization of CPX-351 or future products, if any; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; • issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; • developments or disputes concerning its intellectual property or other proprietary rights; • clinical and regulatory developments with respect to potential competitive products; • introduction of new products by competitors; • issues in manufacturing CPX-351 drug substance or drug product, or future products, if any; • market acceptance of CPX-351 or future products, if any; • actual and anticipated fluctuations in the Company’s quarterly operating results; • third-party healthcare reimbursement policies; • FDA or other U.S. or foreign regulatory actions affecting the Company or the pharmaceutical industry; • litigation or public concern about the safety of CPX-351 or future products, if any; • failure to develop or sustain an active and liquid trading market for the Company’s common stock; • sales of the Company’s common stock by its officers, directors or significant stockholders; and • additions or departures of key personnel. Provisions of Delaware law could delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to the Company’s stockholders, and could make it more difficult to change management. Delaware law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person who, together with its affiliates, owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of the Company’s voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of the Company. 46 TABLE OF CONTENTS These provisions of Delaware law could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of the Company’s common stock. The ownership of the Company’s capital stock by the Company’s directors, executive officers and holders of more than 5% of the company’s capital stock is highly concentrated and will result in the Company’s non-affiliate stockholders having limited or no ability to influence corporate actions. The Company’s directors and executive officers and holders of more than 5% of the Company’s capital stock beneficially own approximately 55.4% of the Company’s outstanding capital stock including shares purchasable upon exercise of stock options and warrants. Accordingly, these stockholders, acting as a group, could have significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets or any other significant corporate transaction. Also, the Company’s non-affiliate stockholders will have limited or no ability to influence corporate actions. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of the Company’s common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. The Company has never paid dividends on its capital stock and the Company does not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The Company has never declared or paid cash dividends on its capital stock. The Company does not anticipate paying any cash dividends on its capital stock in the foreseeable future. The Company currently intends to retain all available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and growth of the Company’s business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of the Company’s common stock will be stockholders’ sole source of gain. The Company is at risk of securities class action litigation. Biotechnology companies have experienced greater than average stock price volatility in recent years. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price or liquidity of the Company’s common stock. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the issuer. If any of the Company’s stockholders were to bring such a lawsuit against the Company, the Company could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit and the attention of management would be diverted from the operation of the Company’s business. Stockholders may experience future dilution as a result of future equity offerings. In order to raise additional capital, the Company may in the future offer additional shares of its common stock or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for its common stock at prices that may not be the same as the price per share in prior offerings. The Company may sell shares or other securities in any offering at a price per share that is less than the price per share paid by investors in prior offerings, and investors purchasing shares or other securities in the future could have rights superior to existing stockholders. The price per share at which the Company sells additional shares of its common stock, or securities convertible or exchangeable into common stock, in future transactions may be higher or lower than the price per share paid by investors in prior offerings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 