ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks associated with our business prior to our merger with Equity Broadcasting Corporation We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently incorporated development stage company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have an operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire an operating business. We will not generate any revenues until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. If we are forced to liquidate before a business combination and distribute the trust account, our public stockholders will receive less than $6.00 per share and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination within the prescribed time frames and are forced to liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation distribution will be less than $6.00 because of the expenses of the Offering, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking a business combination. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants, which will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a business combination. If the net proceeds of the Offering not being placed in trust is insufficient to allow us to operate until September 14, 2007, we may be unable to complete a business combination. We believe that the funds available to us outside of the trust account will be sufficient to allow us to operate until September 14, 2007, assuming that a business combination is not consummated during that time. However, we cannot assure you that our estimates will be accurate. We could use a portion of the funds not being placed in trust to engage consultants to assist us with our search for a target business. We could also use a portion of the funds not being placed in trust as a down payment or to fund a “no-shop” provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to prevent a target businesses from “shopping” around for transactions with other companies on terms more favorable to such target businesses) with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we entered into such a letter of intent where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target business and were subsequently required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise), we may not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, a target business. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of the Offering are intended to be used to complete a business combination with an unidentified target business, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, since we will have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 and have filed a Current Report on Form 8-K, including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact with the SEC, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Because we are not subject to Rule 419, our units have been immediately tradable and we have a longer period of time to complete a business combination in certain circumstances than if we were subject to such rule. 15 Table of Contents Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate a business combination, it may be more difficult for us to do so. There are approximately 67 blank check companies with more than approximately $5.8 billion in trust that are seeking to carry out a business plan similar to our business plan. Furthermore, there are likely to be more blank check companies filing registration statements for initial public offerings prior to our completion of a business combination. While some of those companies must complete a business combination in specific industries, a number of them may consummate a business combination in any industry they choose. Therefore, we may be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business plan similar to ours. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete for an attractive business combination. Additionally, because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time periods. If we are unable to find a suitable target business within such time periods, we will be forced to liquidate. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by stockholders will be less than $5.6685 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses and other entities we engage execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements. Nor is there any guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over those of our public stockholders. We cannot assure you that the per-share distribution from the trust fund will not be less than $5.6685, plus interest, due to such claims of such creditors. If we liquidate before the completion of a business combination and distribute the proceeds held in trust to our public stockholders, our founding stockholder, RPCP Investments, LLLP, has agreed that it will be personally liable to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of target businesses or vendors or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us. However, we cannot assure you that it will be able to satisfy those obligations. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 50,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. Although we have no commitment as of December 31, 2006, we are likely to issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: • may significantly reduce the equity interest of our stockholders; • may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock; • will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, 16 Table of Contents which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Similarly, if we issue debt securities, it could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves are breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination and to be successful thereafter will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following a business combination. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination is dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The role of such individuals in the target business, however, cannot presently be ascertained. Although some of our key personnel, including Richard C. Rochon, Stephen J. Ruzika, Jack I. Ruff, Mario B. Ferrari and Robert C. Farenhem, may remain associated with the target business in senior management or advisory positions following a business combination, it is likely that some or all of the management of the target business will remain in place. Moreover, our key personnel will be able to remain with the company after the consummation of a business combination only if they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with the business combination, the terms of which, including the compensation to be paid to such individuals, would be determined at such time between the respective parties. However, we will not consider the ability of our current key personnel to remain with the company after the consummation of a business combination as a factor in determining whether to proceed with any potential business combination. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. This additional training could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. Our officers and directors will allocate their time to other businesses, thereby causing conflicts of interest in their allocation of time to our affairs. This conflict of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. All 17 Table of Contents of our executive officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our affairs. If our executive officers’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Our officers, directors and their affiliates may become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to ours and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. None of our directors, officers or their affiliates has been or currently is a principal of, or affiliated with, a blank check company. However, our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which they owe fiduciary duties. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. All of our officers and directors indirectly own shares of our common stock which will not participate in liquidation distributions and, therefore, they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. All of our officers and directors indirectly own shares of our common stock that were issued prior to the Offering, but have waived their right to receive distributions with respect to those shares upon our liquidation if we are unable to consummate a business combination. Our directors, through an affiliate (CPACW, LLLP), have purchased 2,000,000 warrants in the open market. The shares indirectly owned by our officers and directors prior to the Offering and any warrants owned by our directors and officers will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our directors and officers may influence their motivation in timely identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination. Consequently, our directors’ and officers’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: • make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to sale; • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and 18 Table of Contents • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and stockholders may find it more difficult to sell our securities. Initially, we will only be able to complete one business combination, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business and a limited number of products or services. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $65.2 million which we may use to complete a business combination. Our initial business combination must be with a business with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such acquisition. Consequently, we will have the ability to complete only a single business combination at first, although this may entail simultaneous acquisitions of several closely related operating businesses. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: • solely dependent upon the performance of a single business; or • dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. Alternatively, if our business combination entails the simultaneous acquisitions of several operating businesses at the same time from different sellers, we would face additional risks. These risks may include difficulties and expenses incurred in connection with the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or products of the acquired companies into a single operating business. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, it could negatively impact our profitability and results of operations. The ability of our stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. When we seek stockholder approval of any business combination, we will offer each public stockholder (but not our founding stockholder, nor any of our officers and directors to the extent that they receive shares upon distribution from our existing stockholder or purchased any shares in the Offering or the aftermarket) the right to have his, her or its shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and completed. Such holder must both vote against such business combination and then exercise his, her or its conversion rights to receive a pro rata portion of the trust fund. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust fund for possible payment upon such conversion, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. Since we have no specific business combination under consideration, we have not taken any steps in furtherance of securing third party financing. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate a business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, 19 Table of Contents or we may end up having a leverage ratio that is not optimal for our business combination. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities with similar business objectives, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources and our financial resources will be relatively limited in comparison. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire with the net proceeds received from the Offering, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Furthermore, the obligation we have to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction. Additionally, our outstanding warrants and the future dilution they potentially represent may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of the Offering is sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, because we have not yet identified any prospective target business, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of the Offering prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination, the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business or the obligation to convert into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or our existing stockholder is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. Our existing stockholder controls a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our founding stockholder, which is owned and controlled by our officers and directors, owns 17.9% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office until at least the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors 20 Table of Contents will be considered for election and our existing stockholder, because of its ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our existing stockholder will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of a business combination. In addition, our existing stockholder, officers and directors and their affiliates are not prohibited from purchasing units in the Offering or shares in the aftermarket. Any common stock acquired by our existing stockholder or our officers and directors in the offering or aftermarket will be considered part of the holdings of the public stockholders. They will have the same rights as other public stockholders with respect to such shares, including voting and conversion rights in connection with a potential business combination. Accordingly, they may vote such shares on a proposed business combination in any way they choose. We cannot assure you that our founding stockholder will not have considerable influence upon the vote in connection with a business combination. Our outstanding warrants and option may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock and increase the difficulty of effecting a business combination. In connection with the Offering, we issued warrants to purchase 23,000,000 shares of common stock as part of the units. We also issued an option to purchase 1,000,000 units to the representatives of the underwriters which, if exercised, will result in the issuance of an additional 1,000,000 shares of common stock and 2,000,000 warrants. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants and option could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business. Such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Therefore, our warrants and representatives’ option may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants and option could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. If, and to the extent, these warrants and option are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. If our founding stockholder exercises its registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our existing stockholder is entitled to make two demands that we register the resale of its shares of common stock at any time commencing three months prior to the date on which its shares are released from escrow. If our existing stockholder exercises its registration rights with respect to all of its shares of common stock, then there will be an additional 2,500,000 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of these additional shares of common stock trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination or will request a higher price for their securities because of the potential effect the exercise of such rights may have on the trading market for our common stock. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it more difficult for us to complete a business combination. 21 Table of Contents If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it more difficult for us to complete a business combination, including: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; and • restrictions on the issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us certain burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance policies and procedures and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. We do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may be invested by the trust agent only in United States “government securities” within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 having a maturity of 180 days or less, or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we were deemed to be subject to that act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense for which we have not allotted. We do not have any “independent” directors and will generally not have the benefit of independent directors examining our financial statements and the propriety of expenses incurred on our behalf and subject to reimbursement. All of our directors are also executive officers of ours. However, no salary or other compensation is paid to our officers and directors for services rendered by them on our behalf prior to or in connection with a business combination. Nevertheless, we do not have the benefit of any independent directors serving on an audit committee to review our financial statements or examine the propriety of expenses subject to reimbursement incurred on our behalf. There is no limit on the amount of out-of-pocket expenses that could be incurred, nor will there be any review of the reasonableness of the expenses by anyone other than our board of directors, which could include persons seeking reimbursement, or a court of competent jurisdiction if such reimbursement is challenged. Although we believe that all actions taken by our directors on our behalf will be in our best interests whether or not they are deemed to be “independent,” we cannot assure you that this will actually be the case. If actions are taken or expenses incurred that are actually not in our best interests, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations and the price of our securities. 22 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Business and Operations Following the Merger with EBC EBC has a history of losses and there can be no assurance that EBC will become or remain profitable or that losses will not continue to occur. EBC has a history of losses. EBC had a net loss of $12.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to a net loss of $6.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. EBC had a net loss of $14.1 million for the nine month period ended September 30, 2006 as compared to a net loss of $4.2 million for the nine month period ended September 30, 2005. There can be no assurance that EBC will become or remain profitable or that losses will not continue to occur. The financial data included in the risk factor is from Coconut Palm’s Form 424B Prospectus filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 15, 2007, which contains financial information as of September 30, 2006. The merger may contribute to a future ownership change which may negatively impact Coconut Palm’s ability to utilize EBC’s net operating loss deferred tax assets in the future. The merger will increase the likelihood that previously incurred net operating losses of EBC that are transferred to Coconut Palm in the merger will become subject to an annual limitation pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code if there are additional changes in the equity ownership of Coconut Palm in the future, including changes arising from the exercise of currently outstanding warrants. Depending on Coconut Palm’s market value at the time of such future ownership change, an ownership change under Section 382 could negatively impact Coconut Palm’s ability to use the net operating loss deferred tax assets attributable to EBC’s previously incurred net operating losses in the event Coconut Palm generates future taxable income. Currently, EBC has recorded a full valuation allowance against its net operating loss deferred tax asset. We incur and expect to continue to incur losses on newly acquired or built stations without an immediate return on our investment. Generally, it takes a few years for our newly acquired or built stations to generate operating cash flow. A majority of EBC’s network stations have been acquired or built within the last five years. During the initial period after acquisition or construction of a station, we incur significant expenses related to: • acquiring syndicated programming; • improving technical facilities; • increasing and improving cable distribution; • hiring new personnel; and • marketing our television stations to viewers. In addition, it requires time to gain viewer awareness of new station programming and to attract advertisers. Accordingly, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, with newly acquired or built stations, losses at a station in the first few years after we acquire or build the station without an immediate return on our investment. Occasionally unforeseen expenses and delays increase the estimated initial start-up expenses. This requires our established stations to generate revenues and cash flow sufficient to meet our business plan including the significant expenses related to our newly acquired or built stations. The loss of the services of the new senior management team or a significant number of employees may negatively affect EBC’s business. 23 Table of Contents EBC’s success is largely dependent on the services of the new senior management team, which includes Richard Rochon, Vice Chairman, Larry Morton, President and Chief Executive Officer, Thomas M. Arnost, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Broadcast Station Group, George Blank, Chief Financial Officer, Mario Ferrari, Chief Strategic Officer, Gregory Fess, Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Mark Dvornik, Executive Vice President of Retro Television Network, James Hearnsberger, Executive Vice President — Finance & Administration, and Glenn Charlesworth, Vice President and Controller. The loss of the services of the new senior management team could harm the business if EBC is not able to find an appropriate replacement on a timely basis. EBC’s success will also be dependent in part on the ability to attract and retain quality general managers and other management personnel for EBC stations. Further, the loss of a significant number of employees or the inability to hire a sufficient number of qualified employees could have a material adverse effect on EBC’s business. We depend on EBC’s network affiliation relationship with Univision for maintaining EBC’s existing business and expanding into new media markets. Many of EBC’s television stations are affiliates of Univision and Telefutura (collectively for this discussion, “Univision”) and we anticipate that a number of the television stations we acquire will become affiliates of Univision. These affiliated television stations accounted for 32% and 23% of EBC’s revenues and net loss, respectively, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 and 39% and 69% of EBC’s revenues and net loss, respectively, for the nine month period ended September 30, 2006. Accordingly, EBC’s success largely depends on EBC stations’ continued relationship with Univision and on Univision’s continued success as a broadcast network. We cannot be sure that in the future we will be able to acquire additional Univision markets other than Waco, Texas; Nashville, Tennessee and Jacksonville, Florida. We cannot be sure that the ratings of Univision programming will continue to improve or that Univision will continue to provide programming, marketing and other support to its affiliates on the same basis as currently provided. Finally, by aligning EBC closely with Univision, we may forego other opportunities that could provide diversity of network affiliation and avoid dependence on any one network. We expect the competition for and the prices of syndicated programming will continue to increase and we may not be able to acquire desired syndicated programming on acceptable terms or at all. On EBC English language stations, one of EBC’s most significant operating costs is syndicated programming. We may be exposed in the future to increased syndicated programming costs that may adversely affect EBC’s operating results. In addition, syndicated programs that meet EBC’s criteria may not be available in the future or may not be available at prices that are acceptable to us. We believe that the prices of the most sought after syndicated programming will continue to increase. Syndicated programming rights are often acquired several years in advance and may require multi-year commitments, making it difficult to accurately predict how a program will perform. In some instances, programs must be replaced before their costs have been fully amortized, resulting in write-offs that increase station operating costs. Competition for popular programming licensed from third parties is intense, and EBC may be outbid by competitors for the rights to new popular syndicated rerun programming or in connection with the renewal of popular rerun syndicated programming we currently license. In addition, renewal costs could substantially exceed the existing contract costs. If we are unable to acquire certain popular programming, EBC’s ratings could decrease which could adversely affect revenue. 24 Table of Contents Increasing competition in the broadcast television industry and its programming alternatives may adversely affect us. The broadcast television industry is highly competitive, and EBC’s success depends in large part on the ability to compete successfully with other network affiliated and independent broadcast television stations and other media for viewers and advertising revenues. The ability of broadcast television stations to generate advertising revenues depends to a significant degree upon audience ratings. Through the 1970s, network television broadcasting generally enjoyed dominance in viewership and television advertising revenues, because network-affiliated television stations competed principally with each other in local markets. Beginning in the 1980s, however, this dominance began to decline. Programming alternatives, such as independent broadcast stations, cable television and other multi-channel competitors, pay-per-view and home videos have fragmented television viewing audiences and subjected television broadcast stations to new types of competition. Since the mid-1980s, cable television and formerly independent stations now affiliated with new networks have captured increasing market share and overall viewership from general broadcast network television. Cable-originated programming in particular has emerged as a significant competitor for broadcast television programming. We also face increasing competition from home satellite delivery, direct broadcast satellite television systems and video delivery systems utilizing telephone lines. Many of EBC’s competitors have longer operating histories and greater resources. As a result of this competition, EBC revenues could be adversely affected. New technologies may have a material adverse effect on EBC’s results of operations. Advances in technology may increase competition for viewers and advertising revenue which may have a material adverse effect on EBC’s results of operations. For example, advances in video compression technology could lower entry barriers for new video channels and encourage the development of increasingly specialized “niche” programming. This may increase the number of competitors targeting the same demographic group as us. Future competition in the television industry may include the provision of interactive video and data services capable of providing two-way interaction with commercial video programming, together with information and data services, that may be delivered by commercial television stations, cable television, direct broadcast satellite television and other video delivery systems. The loss of major advertisers, a reduction in their advertising expenditures, a decrease in advertising rates or a change in economic conditions may materially harm EBC’s business. EBC derives substantially all of its revenues from advertisers in diverse industries at the local, regional and national levels. The loss of any major advertiser, a reduction in their advertising expenditures, a general decrease in advertising rates, or adverse developments or changes in the local, regional or national economy could materially harm EBC’s business by reducing revenue. EBC’s revenues are affected by seasonal trends causing additional cash flow concerns during the slower seasons. The revenues and cash flows of EBC television stations are subject to various seasonal factors that influence the television broadcasting industry as a whole. Like other broadcasters, we experience higher revenues and cash flows during the second and fourth quarters of the year when television viewing and advertising is higher compared to the first and third quarters. The slower seasons result in lower revenue which causes additional cash flow concerns during these quarters. 25 Table of Contents Failure to observe governmental rules and regulations governing the granting, renewal, transfer and assignment of licenses and EBC’s inability to conclusively anticipate timing and approval actions could negatively impact EBC’s business. Television broadcasting is a regulated industry and is subject to the jurisdiction of the FCC under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended from time to time (the “Communications Act”). The Communications Act prohibits the operation of television broadcasting stations except under a license issued by the FCC. Licenses may be as long as eight years under current law. The Communications Act also prohibits the assignment of a broadcast license or the transfer of control of a broadcast licensee without the prior approval of the FCC. Additionally, a party must obtain a construction permit from the FCC in order to build a new television station and subsequently obtain a license to commence operations. The Communications Act empowers the FCC, among other things to issue, revoke and modify broadcast licenses; decide whether to approve a change of ownership or control of station licenses; regulate the equipment used by stations; and adopt and implement regulations to carry out the provisions of the Communications Act. In determining whether to grant, renew, or permit the assignment or transfer of control of a broadcast license, the FCC considers a number of factors pertaining to the licensee, including: • compliance with various rules limiting common ownership of media properties; • the character of the licensee (i.e., the likelihood that the licensee will comply with applicable law and regulations) and those persons holding attributable interests (i.e., the level of ownership or other involvement in station operations resulting in the FCC attributing ownership of that station or other media outlet to such person or entity in determining compliance with FCC ownership limitations; and • compliance with the Communications Act’s limitations on alien ownership. Additionally, for a renewal of a broadcast license, the FCC will consider whether a station has served the public interest, convenience, and necessity, whether there have been any serious violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or FCC rules and policies, and whether there have been no other violations of the Communications Act and FCC rules and policies which, taken together, would constitute a pattern of abuse. Any other party with standing may petition the FCC to deny a broadcaster’s application for renewal. However, only if the FCC issues an order denying renewal will the FCC accept and consider applications from other parties for a construction permit for a new station to operate on that channel. The FCC may not consider any new applicant for the channel in making determinations concerning the grant or denial of the licensee’s renewal application. Although renewal of licenses is granted in the majority of cases even when petitions to deny have been filed, EBC cannot be sure that its station licenses will be renewed for a full term or without modification. With respect to obtaining the FCC’s consent prior to assigning a broadcast license or transferring control of a broadcast licensee, if the application involves a substantial change in ownership or control, the filer must comply with the public notice requirements. During the public notice period of not less than 30 days, petitions to deny the application may be filed by interested parties, including certain members of the public. If the FCC grants the application, interested parties then have a minimum 30 day period during which they may seek reconsideration or review of that grant by the FCC or, as the case may be, a court of competent jurisdiction. The full FCC commission has an additional 10 days to set aside on its own motion any action taken by the FCC’s staff. Due to the factors set forth above, it is possible that the FCC could not approve some or all of the licenses held by EBC in connection with the change in control from the proposed merger with Coconut Palm. The 26 Table of Contents FCC’s denial of the change in control for some or all of the licenses or a delay in the FCC’s review of the change in control requests may negatively impact the merger and possibly prevent the merger from being consummated between the parties. In addition, assuming the merger were to occur, the combined company’s failure to observe FCC or other governmental rules and policies can result in the imposition of various sanctions, including monetary forfeitures, the grant of short, or less than maximum license renewal terms or for particularly egregious violations, the denial of a license renewal application, the revocation of a license or denial of FCC consent to acquire additional broadcast properties — any of which could negatively impact both EBC existing business and future acquisitions. Additionally, EBC’s inability to conclusively anticipate the timing and approval of license grants, renewals, transfers and assignments may result in uncertainty and negatively impact EBC’s business because of delays and additional expenses. Changes in FCC regulations regarding media ownership limits have increased the uncertainty surrounding the competitive position of EBC stations in the markets it serves and may adversely affect its ability to buy new television stations or sell existing television stations. In June 2003, the FCC amended its multiple ownership rules, including, among other things, its local television ownership limitations, its prohibition on common ownership of newspapers and broadcast stations in the same market, as well as its local radio ownership limitations. Under the amended rules, a single entity would be permitted to own up to two television stations in a market with at least five television stations if one of the stations is not among the top-4 ranked stations and could own three television stations in a market with at least 18 television stations as long as two of the stations are not among the top-4 ranked stations. The amended rules also establish new cross media limits to govern the combined ownership of television stations, radio stations and daily newspapers. Specifically, in markets with 4-8 television stations, a single entity can own (1) a combination of one daily newspaper, one television station, and half the ownership limit of radio stations, (2) a combination of one daily newspaper and the full complement of allowed radio stations, or (3) a combination of two television stations (if otherwise permissible) and the full complement of radio stations but no daily newspaper. The effectiveness of these new rules was stayed pending appeal. In June 2004, a federal court of appeals issued a decision which upheld portions of the FCC decision adopting the rules, but concluded that the order failed to adequately support numerous aspects of those rules, including the specific numeric ownership limits adopted by the FCC. The court remanded the matter to the FCC for revision or further justification of the rules, retaining jurisdiction over the matter. The court has partially maintained its stay of the effectiveness of those rules, particularly as they relate to television. The rules are now largely in effect as they relate to radio. The Supreme Court has declined to review the matter at this time, and the FCC must review the matter and issue a revised order. We cannot predict whether, how or when the new rules will be modified, ultimately implemented as modified, or repealed in their entirety. The new multiple ownership rules could limit EBC’s ability to acquire additional television stations in existing markets that we serve. Legislation went into effect in January 2004 that permits a single entity to own television stations serving up to 39% of U.S. television households, an increase over the previous 35% cap. Large broadcast groups may take advantage of this law to expand further their ownership interests on a national basis. The restrictions on foreign ownership may limit foreign investment in EBC or in its ability to successfully sell its business. The Communications Act limits the extent of non-U.S. ownership of companies that own U.S. broadcast stations. Under this restriction, a U.S. broadcast company such as EBC may have no more than 25% non- 27 Table of Contents U.S. ownership (by vote and by equity). These restrictions limit EBC’s ability to attract foreign investment in EBC and may impact EBC’s ability to successfully sell its business if EBC were to ever determine that such actions are in the best interests of the company and stockholders. Failure to observe rules and policies regarding the content of programming may adversely affect EBC’s business. Stations must pay regulatory and application fees and follow various FCC rules that regulate, among other things: • political advertising; • children’s programming; • the broadcast of obscene or indecent programming; • sponsorship identification; and • technical operations. The FCC requires licensees to present programming that is responsive to community problems, needs and interests. In addition, FCC rules require television stations to serve the educational and informational needs of children 16 years old and younger through the stations’ own programming as well as through other means. FCC rules also limit the amount of commercial matter that a television station may broadcast during programming directed primarily at children 12 years old and younger. The FCC requires television broadcasters to maintain certain records and/or file periodic reports with the FCC to document their compliance with the foregoing obligations. Failure to observe these or other rules and policies can result in the imposition of various sanctions, including monetary forfeitures, the grant of short, less than the maximum, renewal terms, or for particularly egregious violations, the denial of a license renewal application or the revocation of a license. Because EBC television stations rely on “must carry” rights to obtain cable carriage, new laws or regulations that eliminate or limit the scope of these rights or failures could significantly reduce its ability to obtain cable carriage and therefore reduce its revenues. Pursuant to the “must carry” provisions of the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, television broadcast stations may elect to require that a cable operator carry its signal if the cable operator is located in the same market as the broadcast station. However, in such cases the broadcast station cannot demand compensation from the cable operator. Such mandatory carriage is commonly referred to as “must-carry.” The future of “must carry” rights is uncertain, especially as they relate to the carriage of digital television. Under the current FCC rules, must-carry rights extend to digital television signals only in limited circumstances. While proposed legislation to broaden such rights has been proposed, we cannot predict whether such legislation will be adopted or the details of any legislation that may be adopted. EBC full-power television stations often rely on “must-carry” rights to obtain cable carriage on specific cable systems. New laws or regulations that eliminate or limit the scope of these cable carriage rights could significantly reduce EBC’s ability to obtain cable carriage, which would reduce EBC’s ability to distribute EBC programming and consequently EBC’s ability to generate revenues from advertising. In addition, a number of entities have commenced operation, or announced plans to commence operation of internet protocol video systems, using digital subscriber line (“DSL”), fiber optic to the home (“FTTH”) and other distribution technologies. The issue of whether those services are subject to the existing cable television regulations, including must-carry obligations, has not been resolved. There are proposals in Congress and at the FCC to resolve this issue. We cannot predict whether must-carry rights 28 Table of Contents will cover such Internet Protocol Television (“IPTV”) systems. In the event IPTV systems gain a significant share of the video distribution marketplace, and new laws and regulations fail to provide adequate must-carry rights, EBC’s ability to distribute EBC programming to the maximum number of potential viewers will be significantly reduced and consequently EBC’s revenue potential will be significantly reduced. EBC’s use of local marketing agreements and joint sales agreements may result in uncertainty regarding scheduled programming and/or revenue from the sale of advertising. We have, from time to time, entered into local marketing agreements, generally in connection with pending station acquisitions which allow us to provide programming and other services to a station that we have agreed to acquire before we receive all applicable FCC and other governmental approvals. FCC rules generally permit local marketing agreements if the station licensee retains ultimate responsibility for and control of the applicable station, including finances, personnel, programming and compliance with the FCC’s rules and policies. EBC cannot be sure that it will be able to air all of EBC’s scheduled programming on a station with which we may have a local marketing agreement or that we would receive the revenue from the sale of advertising for such programming. We have, from time to time, entered into joint sales agreements, which allow us to sell advertising time on another station. The FCC’s New Rules make joint sales agreements for radio stations an attributable ownership interest if the selling station is located in the same market and sells more than 15% of the other station’s weekly advertising time. The FCC recently initiated a new rulemaking proceeding that could result in rules which make joint sales agreements for television an attributable ownership interest to the same extent that radio joint sales agreements are an attributable ownership interest. The FCC proceeding could result in the adoption of rules which would limit EBC’s opportunities to enter into joint sales agreements with other television stations in a market where we already own one or more television stations, and that could adversely affect EBC’s revenue from advertising. The industry-wide mandatory conversion to digital television has required us, and will continue to require us, to make significant capital expenditures without assurance that we will remain competitive with other developing technologies. FCC regulations required all commercial television stations in the United States to commence digital operations on a schedule determined by the FCC and Congress, in addition to continuing their analog operations. Digital transmissions were initially permitted to be low-power, but full-power transmission was required by July 1, 2005 for stations affiliated with the four largest networks (ABC, CBS, NBC and Fox) in the top one hundred markets and is required by July 1, 2006 for all other stations. EBC has already constructed full power digital television facilities for six of EBC’s stations in the Cheyenne, Wyoming, Amarillo, Texas, Salt Lake City, Utah, Eugene, Oregon, Montgomery, Alabama and Little Rock, Arkansas markets. We have made significant capital expenditures in order to comply with the FCC’s digital television requirements. We will be required to convert an additional fifteen stations into full power digital television stations by February 17, 2009. We expect to spend approximately $2,875,000 on this process. Another major issue surrounding the implementation of digital television is the scope of a local cable television system’s obligation to carry the signals of local broadcast television stations. On February 10, 2005, the FCC decided that a cable television system is only obligated under the Communications Act to carry a television station’s “primary video” signal and, accordingly, that a cable television system does not have to carry the television station’s digital signal as well as its analog signal (but must carry the 29 Table of Contents digital signal if the station does not have an analog signal). The new digital technology will enable a television station to broadcast four or more video streams of programming to the public, but the FCC said that the cable television system only has an obligation to carry one of those signals (the “primary video” signal) and not all of them, thus rejecting the broadcasters’ request for the FCC to impose a “multicasting” obligation on cable television systems. In addition, the FCC has not yet promulgated rules regarding the obligation of direct broadcast satellite providers to carry the digital signal of a local broadcast station. The FCC decisions could limit the reach of EBC television stations’ digital programming and, to that extent, could have an adverse impact on the revenue we derive from station operations. If direct broadcast satellite companies do not carry the stations that we own and operate or provide services to, we could lose audience share and revenue. The Satellite Home Viewer Extension and Reauthorization Act allows direct broadcast satellite television companies to continue to transmit local broadcast television signals to subscribers in local markets provided that they offer to carry all local stations in that market. However, satellite providers have limited satellite capacity to deliver local station signals in local markets. Satellite providers may choose not to carry local stations in any of EBC’s markets. In those markets in which the satellite providers do not carry local station signals, subscribers to those satellite services are unable to view local stations without making further arrangements, such as installing antennas and switches. A principal component of the new regulation requires satellite carriers to carry the analog signals of all local television stations in a market if they carry one. We have taken advantage of that regulation to elect carriage of EBC stations on satellite systems in markets in which local-into-local carriage is provided, however, this has been a time consuming process to provide the local television broadcast signal to certain of these markets. Furthermore, when direct broadcast satellite companies do carry local television stations in a market, they are permitted to charge subscribers extra for such service. Some subscribers may choose not to pay extra to receive local television stations. In the event subscribers to satellite services do not receive the stations that we own and operate or provide services to, we could lose audience share which would adversely affect EBC’s revenue. Unlike the statutory regulations governing cable carriage of qualified full power television stations, the direct broadcast satellite television companies (i.e., DirecTV and Dish Network) have a choice as to whether or not to provide local television channels in a given television market However, once they decide to carry one local signal, they must carry all the qualified television stations (i.e., local-into-local service) in that market. We have filed carriage elections against the satellite companies for all of EBC’s qualified television stations in which local-into-local delivery is being provided. We have been delayed in certain instances in being carried, however, as we have to provide a good quality signal to a designated local receive facility in a given market, which is often in a building or site controlled by a third party. Therefore additional negotiations are needed to deliver EBC’s signal to this facility in a manner accepted and approved by the FCC, including but not limited to delivery via microwave, satellite or fiber. 30 Table of Contents EBC’s substantial indebtedness may negatively impact EBC’s ability to implement EBC’s business plan. As indicated below, following the merger on a pro forma combined basis assuming that the maximum number of Coconut Palm stockholders convert their shares into a pro rata share of the trust account, we will have a significant amount of indebtedness relative to EBC’s equity. As of September 30, 2006 (In thousands) Total Current Assets $ 37,848 Total Current Liabilities $ 14,501 Total Long-term Liabilities $ 71,367 EBC’s substantial indebtedness may negatively impact EBC’s ability to implement EBC’s business plan. For example, it could: • limit EBC’s ability to fund future working capital and capital expenditures; • limit EBC’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in EBC’s business and the industry in which we operate; • subject us to interest rate risk in connection with any potential future refinancing of our debt; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; • increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; and • require us to restructure or refinance our debt, sell debt or equity securities, or sell assets, possibly on unfavorable terms in order to meet payment obligations. In addition, our existing credit facility contains various financial and operational covenants, both affirmative and negative. The financial covenants include limitations on capital expenditures, restricted payments, minimum revenues and EBITDA and minimum availability. The affirmative covenants include provisions relative to preservation of assets, compliance with laws, maintaining insurance, payment of taxes, notice of proceedings, defaults or adverse changes, timely and accurate financial reporting, inspection rights, maintenance of a GAAP accounting system, renewal of licenses and compliance with environmental laws. The negative covenants include provisions and limitations concerning indebtedness, liens, disposition of assets, fundamental changes, conditions to acquisitions, sale and leaseback of assets, investments, change in business, accounts receivable, transactions with affiliates, amendment of certain agreements, ERISA, margin stock, negative pledges and Local Marketing Agreements. Violation of any covenant language could adversely affect our ability to draw down or incur additional indebtedness when we otherwise believe it is advisable to do so. Additionally, any violation of covenant language, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the indebtedness. Over a four year period, EBC has been in violation of the EBITDA covenants on two occasions. However, these violations were subsequently waived and no current violations exist. In addition, on one occasion EBC was in violation of its capital expenditure covenant. This violation was also subsequently waived by the lender. An acceleration of indebtedness would severely impact the ability of the company to continue to fund its ongoing operations and, if not cured, its ability to continue as a going concern. The pro forma financial data included in the risk factor is from Coconut Palm’s Form 424B Prospectus filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 15, 2007, which contains financial information as of September 30, 2006. 31 Table of Contents Failure of EBC’s internal control over financial reporting could harm our business and financial results. Following the merger, the combined company will be obligated to establish and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting in accordance with GAAP. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect EBC’s transactions and dispositions of assets, providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary for preparation of the financial statements in accordance with GAAP, providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures of EBC are made only in accordance with management authorization, and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of EBC assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements would be prevented or detected on a timely basis. EBC’s growth and entry into new markets and acquisitions of new stations will place significant additional pressure on our system of internal control over financial reporting. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud, which in turn would harm our business and financial results. An existing lawsuit against EBC and the members of EBC’s board of directors could distract EBC from their operational responsibilities. EBC and each member of the EBC board of directors has been named in a lawsuit filed by an EBC shareholder in the circuit court of Pulaski County, Arkansas on June 14, 2006. The lawsuit was filed as a class action, meaning that the plaintiff, Mr. Max Bobbitt, seeks to represent all shareholders in the class, provided the class is certified by the court. Mr. Bobbitt owns 115,000 shares of Class A common stock, and thus represents less than 5% of any class of EBC equity. The complaint makes various allegations against EBC and the board of EBC with respect to the merger and other matters. EBC views the lawsuit as baseless and will continue to vigorously defend the matter. Coconut Palm and EBC are proceeding with the merger in accordance with the terms of the merger agreement. During the course of this litigation it is possible that members of EBC’s senior management and members of the board of directors continuing with EBC following the merger may have to devote significant time and effort to the resolution of such litigation adversely impacting their ability to properly attend to the operations of the combined company. It is also possible that any judgment or settlement may adversely affect the financial position of the combined company. Some members of the proposed management team of combined company are also partners in Royal Palm, an affiliate of Coconut Palm, and will not devote all of their time to the combined company and may also have conflicts of interest with the combined company. Richard C. Rochon, the proposed Vice Chairman of the combined company, Robert C. Farenhem, a proposed director of the combined company and Mario B. Ferrari, the proposed Chief Strategic Officer of the combined company, are currently partners in Royal Palm Capital Partners, LLP, a private equity investment and management firm which has several investments in other companies. Messrs. Rochon, Farenhem and Ferrari will continue to be partners in Royal Palm and will continue work for Royal Palm in addition to their new proposed duties with the combined company following the completion of the merger. Even though Mr. Ferrari anticipates being able to provide all necessary service to the combined company in satisfaction of his duties as the Chief Strategic Officer of the combined company, he will not devote his full time to the combined company by virtue, in part, to his position in Royal Palm. Further, it is possible that conflicts of interest may arise between the duties owed to Royal Palm and the combined company. Mr. Ferrari’s anticipated dual role as the combined company’s Chief Strategic Officer in 32 Table of Contents addition to his role as a partner at Royal Palm Capital Partners reflects his ongoing strategic and operational involvement with the combined company post-merger. Mr. Ferrari will not have an employment agreement with the combined company. Mr. Ferrari’s strategic oversight role with the Company will entail continuing to develop the management plan with its senior executives, identifying acquisitions and strategic partners, oversight of capital markets activity, recruiting executives and monitoring the capital budget process. It is anticipated that Mr. Ferrari will devote a minimum of 10 hours per week of his time to this role. Mr. Ferrari currently serves on the board of directors of two additional public companies in which RPCP holds investments and is actively involved in identifying new investments for RPCP on an ongoing basis. One of Royal Palm’s affiliates, RPCP Investments, LLLP, is currently a holder of approximately 17.9% of the issued and outstanding common stock of Coconut Palm and is anticipated be a 6.1% holder of the issued and outstanding common stock of the combined company upon consummation of the merger. Messrs. Rochon and Farenhem will serve as directors of the combined company, and along with two additional directors selected by Coconut Palm which are anticipated to be independent directors within the meaning of the applicable exchange or quotation system in which our securities are listed, will comprise four of the nine directors provided for pursuant to terms of the merger agreement. While Mr. Rochon will serve as an active Vice Chairman, the only partner of Royal Palm to serve in executive management will be Mario B. Ferrari as the proposed Chief Strategic Officer. We may not be able to grow our business through acquisitions. We intend to continue to pursue the acquisition of additional television stations. Our ability to acquire additional television stations involves risks including: • we may be unable to obtain required approval by the FCC of the assignments or transfers of control of licenses issued by the FCC; • the law limits the number and location of broadcasting properties that any one person or entity (including its affiliates) may own; • the market to purchase television stations is highly competitive, and many potential acquirers have greater resources available than we have to make such acquisitions; • stations may not be available for purchase; • we may be unable to obtain desired affiliations for all of the stations we acquire in the future; and • we may not have the financial resources necessary to acquire additional stations. The ability to grow our business will be negatively impacted if we are unable to successfully implement our acquisition plans. Once we acquire a station, we cannot be sure that we will be successful in integrating the acquired stations into our existing business or that these integration efforts will not adversely divert our limited management resources. If third parties bring claims against us or if EBC has breached any of its representations, warranties or covenants set forth in the merger agreement, we may not be adequately indemnified for any losses arising therefrom. A total of 2,100,000 shares of common stock of Coconut Palm to be issued to the holders of EBC Class A and Class B common stock as part of the merger consideration will be withheld from each holder on a pro rata basis and shall be placed in escrow to secure the indemnity obligations of EBC under the merger agreement. The merger agreement provides that the EBC shareholders will indemnify Coconut Palm for losses arising from: • an inaccuracy or breach of the representations and warranties, 33 Table of Contents • the non-fulfillment or breach of any covenant by EBC, and • certain taxes of EBC or any subsidiary not properly accrued. Such indemnification is limited to the aggregate amount of the value of the escrow. However, if the total indebtedness of EBC at the closing of the merger is less than $72,000,000, then the combined entity will be responsible for satisfying any indemnification claims, acting like a deductible, up to the amount that EBC’s closing indebtedness is less than $72,000,000. In addition, the survival period for any claims under the merger agreement is limited to one year after the closing of the merger. Accordingly, we will be prevented from seeking indemnification for any claims above the aggregate threshold or arising after the one-year survival period. 34 Table of Contents Risks Related to our merger with Equity Broadcasting Corporation, including a discussion of such risks as of prior to completion of the merger If 20% or more of the holders of Coconut Palm’s common stock issued in its public offering decide to vote against the proposed acquisition, Coconut Palm may be forced to liquidate, stockholders may receive less than approximately $5.6685 per share and the warrants will expire worthless. Under the terms of Coconut Palm’s corporate charter, if 20% or more of the shares issued in Coconut Palm’s initial public offering decide to vote against the proposed merger and opt to convert their shares to cash, Coconut Palm may ultimately be forced to liquidate. While Coconut Palm will continue to search to acquire an operating company in the service business industry, if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement is executed by September 14, 2007, it will be forced to liquidate. In any liquidation, the net proceeds of Coconut Palm’s initial public offering held in the trust account, plus any interest earned thereon, will be distributed on a pro rata basis to the holders of Coconut Palm’s common stock issued in its public offering. If Coconut Palm is forced to liquidate its assets, the per-share liquidation will be the amount deposited in the trust account at the time of the initial public offering, plus interest accrued thereon until the date of any liquidation. As of December 31, 2006, there was approximately $5.6685 per share. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to Coconut Palm’s outstanding warrants and, accordingly, the warrants will expire worthless. The combined company’s working capital could be reduced, and Coconut Palm stockholders could own less than 34% of the combined company’s outstanding common stock, if Coconut Palm stockholders exercise their right to convert their shares into cash. Pursuant to Coconut Palm’s certificate of incorporation, holders of shares issued in Coconut Palm’s initial public offering may vote against the merger and demand that Coconut Palm convert their shares into cash. Coconut Palm and EBC will not consummate the merger if holders of 20% or more shares of common stock issued in Coconut Palm’s initial public offering exercise these conversion rights. To the extent the merger is consummated and holders of less than 20% of Coconut Palm’s common stock issued in its initial public offering have demanded to convert their shares, there will be a corresponding reduction in the amount of funds available to the combined company following the merger and a reduction in the aggregate percentage of the combined company that is owned by Coconut Palm’s stockholders after the merger. Additionally, if holders demand to convert their shares, there may be a corresponding reduction in the value of each share of common stock held in the combined company. As of December 31, 2006, assuming the merger proposal is adopted, the maximum amount of funds that could be disbursed to Coconut Palm’s stockholders upon the exercise of the conversion rights would be approximately $13,030,954 or approximately 19.99% of the funds currently held in trust. If no funds were disbursed to Coconut Palm stockholders upon the exercise of the conversion rights, the percentage of the combined company’s common stock that would be owned by the Coconut Palm stockholders would be approximately 34%. If the maximum amount of funds were disbursed, the percentage of the combined company’s common stock that would be owned by the Coconut Palm stockholders who did not exercise their conversion right would be approximately 30%. A substantial number of the combined company’s shares will become eligible for future resale in the public market after the merger which could result in dilution and an adverse effect on the market price of those shares. If the merger is consummated, warrants to purchase 23,000,000 shares of common stock issued in connection with Coconut Palm’s initial public offering will become exercisable on the date the merger is consummated, as described under “Description of Coconut Palm Securities — Warrants.” Moreover, 2,500,000 shares of Coconut Palm common stock purchased by stockholders prior to Coconut Palm’s 35 Table of Contents initial public offering will be held in escrow until September 8, 2008, at which time they will be released from escrow and be eligible for resale in the public market subject to compliance with applicable law. Consequently, at various times after completion of the merger, a substantial number of additional shares of Coconut Palm common stock will be eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of such shares and of the warrants. Coconut Palm’s existing stockholders will incur immediate and substantial dilution of their ownership and voting interests upon completion of the merger. After completion of the merger through the issuance of additional shares of Coconut Palm common stock to the shareholders of EBC, Coconut Palm’s existing stockholders’ voting interest will be diluted from 100% to approximately 34.4% of the combined company’s voting interests assuming maximum approval, and approximately 30.5% of the combined company’s voting interests assuming minimum approval. If the merger’s benefits do not meet the expectations of financial or industry analysts, the market price of Coconut Palm’s common stock may decline. The market price of Coconut Palm’s common stock may decline as a result of the merger if: • Coconut Palm does not achieve the perceived benefits of the merger as rapidly, or to the extent anticipated by, financial or industry analysts; or • the effect of the merger on Coconut Palm’s financial results is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts. Accordingly, investors may experience a loss as a result of a decline in the market price of Coconut Palm’s common stock. In addition, a decline in the market price of Coconut Palm’s common stock could adversely affect our ability to issue additional securities and our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. If Coconut Palm is unable to list on the Nasdaq Global Market or other national securities exchange, then it may be difficult for its stockholders to sell their securities. Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, within 30 days of the merger, Coconut Palm has an obligation to make an application to the Nasdaq Global Market, or a national securities exchange, and to make reasonable efforts to obtain approval for the listing of Coconut Palm common stock on such exchange. If Coconut Palm’s application is denied or delayed, the liquidity of Coconut Palm common stock may decline significantly making it difficult for stockholders to sell their securities. The lack of diversification in the business of the combined company affects Coconut Palm’s ability to mitigate the risks that it may face or to offset possible losses that it may incur as a result of competing in the television broadcasting industry. The prospects for Coconut Palm’s success will be dependent upon the future performance of a single business. Coconut Palm may not have the resources to diversify its operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses. By consummating a business combination with only a single entity, Coconut Palm’s lack of diversification may subject Coconut Palm to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact on Coconut Palm and may result in Coconut Palm’s dependency upon the development or market acceptance of EBC’s television stations. 36 Table of Contents If you do not vote your shares at the Coconut Palm special meeting or give instructions to your broker to vote or abstain from voting you will not be eligible to convert your shares of Coconut Palm common stock into cash and receive a portion of the trust account upon consummation of the merger. Pursuant to Coconut Palm’s certificate of incorporation, a holder of shares of Coconut Palm’s common stock issued in its initial public offering may, if the stockholder votes against the merger, demand that Coconut Palm convert such shares into cash. This demand must be made on the proxy card at the same time that the stockholder votes against the merger proposal. If so demanded, Coconut Palm will convert each share of common stock into a pro rata portion of the trust account in which a substantial portion of the net proceeds of Coconut Palm’s initial public offering are held, plus all interest earned thereon. If you exercise your conversion rights, then you will be exchanging your shares of Coconut Palm common stock for cash and will no longer own these shares. You will only be entitled to receive cash for these shares if you continue to hold these shares through the closing date of the merger and then tender your stock certificate to Coconut Palm’s transfer agent, Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, 17 Battery Place, New York, NY 10004, Attention: Mark Zimkind, telephone (212) 845-3287. Inquiries regarding conversion may be addressed to Continental Stock Transfer. If the merger is not completed, then these shares will not be converted into cash at this time and Coconut Palm will need to liquidate if a business combination is not completed by September 14, 2007, as applicable. Shares that are not voted or are broker non-voted or where the stockholder abstains from voting shall not in any event be eligible to be converted into cash upon completion of the merger. Failure to complete the merger could negatively impact the market price of Coconut Palm’s common stock and may make it more difficult for Coconut Palm to attract another acquisition candidate, resulting, ultimately, in the disbursement of the trust proceeds, causing investors to experience a loss of their investment. If the merger is not completed for any reason, Coconut Palm may be subject to a number of material risks, including: • the market price of Coconut Palm’s common stock may substantially decline; • costs related to the merger, such as legal and accounting fees and the costs of the fairness opinion, must be paid even if the merger is not completed; and • charges will be made against earnings for transaction-related expenses, which could be higher than expected. Such decreased market price and added costs and charges of the failed merger, together with the history of failure in consummating a merger, may make it more difficult for Coconut Palm to attract another acquisition candidate, resulting, ultimately, in the disbursement of the trust proceeds, causing investors to experience a loss of their investment. If Coconut Palm does not consummate the merger with EBC and it is unable to consummate any business combination by September 14, 2007, as applicable, and is forced to dissolve and liquidate, payments from the trust account to Coconut Palm’s public stockholders may be delayed. If Coconut Palm does not consummate the business combination with EBC and it is unable to consummate any business combination by September 14, 2007, Coconut Palm will dissolve and liquidate. Coconut Palm anticipates that, promptly after such date, the following will occur: • Coconut Palm’s board of directors will convene and adopt a specific plan of dissolution and liquidation, which it will then vote to recommend to stockholders; at such time it will also cause 37 Table of Contents to be prepared a preliminary proxy statement setting out such plan of dissolution and liquidation as well as the board’s recommendation of such plan; • Coconut Palm will promptly file its preliminary proxy statement with the SEC; • if the SEC does not review the preliminary proxy statement, then, 10 days following the filing of such preliminary proxy statement, Coconut Palm will mail the definitive proxy statement to stockholders, and 10-20 days following the mailing of such definitive proxy statement, Coconut Palm will convene a meeting of stockholders, at which they will vote on the plan of dissolution and liquidation; and • if the SEC does review the preliminary proxy statement, Coconut Palm currently estimates that it will receive their comments approximately 30 days after the filing of such proxy statement. Coconut Palm would then mail the definitive proxy statement to stockholders following the conclusion of the comment and review process (the length of which it cannot predict with any certainty, and which may be substantial) and Coconut Palm will convene a meeting of stockholders at which they will vote on the plan of dissolution and liquidation. Coconut Palm currently expects that the costs associated with the implementation and completion of the plan of dissolution and liquidation would not be more than approximately $50,000 to $75,000. Coconut Palm anticipates that members of Coconut Palm management will advance Coconut Palm the funds necessary to complete such dissolution and liquidation. Coconut Palm will not liquidate the trust account unless and until stockholders approve the plan of dissolution and liquidation. Accordingly, the foregoing procedures may result in substantial delays in its liquidation and the distribution to public stockholders of the funds in the trust account and any remaining net assets as part of the plan of dissolution and liquidation. Coconut Palm stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against it to the extent of distributions received by them. If Coconut Palm is unable to complete the merger with EBC and it is unable to consummate any business combination by September 14, 2007, as applicable, Coconut Palm will promptly adopt a plan of dissolution and initiate procedures for a dissolution and liquidation. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If we complied with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that we make reasonable provision for all claims against us, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against us, a 90-day period during which we may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of a stockholder with respect to a liquidating distribution would be limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our stockholders as soon as reasonably possible after dissolution and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution and any such liability of our stockholders will likely extend beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our public stockholders amounts owed to them by us. Coconut Palm’s founding stockholder, RPCP Investments, could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution and any liability of its stockholders may extend beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution. RPCP Investments will be personally liable to 38 Table of Contents pay debts and obligations, if any, to creditors that are owed money by Coconut Palm in excess of the net proceeds of Coconut Palm’s initial public offering not held in the trust account. As of December 31, 2006, Coconut Palm’s working capital deficit is approximately $1,925,141. Based on information obtained from such entity, Coconut Palm currently believes that such entity is of substantial means and capable of satisfying such debts and obligations even though Coconut Palm has not requested it to reserve for such an eventuality. However, there is no assurance that RPCP Investments will be able to satisfy those obligations. Additionally, if Coconut Palm is forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against it which is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders in the dissolution could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by the stockholders in the dissolution. An effective registration statement may not be in place when a Coconut Palm stockholder desires to exercise warrants, which would preclude the Coconut Palm stockholder from being able to exercise his, her or its warrants and cause those warrants to be practically worthless. The outstanding Coconut Palm warrants will become exercisable upon the completion of the merger. However, none of the outstanding Coconut Palm warrants will be exercisable, and we will not be obligated to net cash settle the warrants, unless at the time a holder seeks to exercise these warrants, a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of these warrants is current and the common stock has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. Under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed to use our best efforts to meet these conditions and to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of these warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so, and if we do not maintain a current prospectus related to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, holders will be unable to exercise their warrants and we will not be required to settle any such warrant exercise. If the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of these warrants is not current or if the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside, these warrants may have no value, the market for these warrants may be limited and these warrants may expire unexercised and worthless. Thus, in these instances, the purchaser of a unit purchased in our initial public offering would have paid the $6.00 purchase price for the one share of our common stock included in the unit. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants when a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants is not current and the warrants are not exercisable, which may result in warrant holders receiving much less than fair value for the warrants or no value at all. We may redeem the warrants issued as a part of our units at any time in whole and not in part, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days’ prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $8.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption to warrant holders. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders to: • exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price therefore at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so; • sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants; or 39 Table of Contents • accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. Further, if we redeem the warrants while the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is not current, all warrant holders, including without limitation CPACW, LLLP, whose general partner is RPCP Investments, will not be able to exercise their warrants and may receive much less than fair value for the warrant or no value at all. In that event, CPACW, LLLP, who owns 2,000,000 warrants, would also receive much less than fair value for the warrants or no value at all. 40 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Offering The first vote of EBC shareholders may be deemed an offer and sale of Coconut Palm securities in violation of Section 5 of the Securities Act, which could result in recission payments to EBC shareholders. The first vote by the EBC shareholders on June 15, 2006 on the merger prior to the filing of this Registration Statement may be deemed to be an investment decision by EBC shareholders constituting an offer and sale by Coconut Palm of its securities. If so, then such an offer and sale without an effective registration statement relating to the offered Coconut Palm securities or an applicable exemption from registration may have violated Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933, which makes it unlawful to sell a security unless a registration statement as to the security is in effect. If the June 15, 2006 vote by EBC shareholders did constitute a violation of Section 5 of the Securities Act, and if EBC shareholders had received Coconut Palm securities based upon such vote, then such shareholder may have had the right to tender the Coconut Palm securities back to Coconut Palm in return for the consideration the EBC shareholder paid plus interest. 41 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 