ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Real Estate Loan Current economic conditions have increased the risk of defaults on our loans. Defaults on our real estate loans have reduced our revenues and may continue to do so in the future. We are in the business of investing in real estate loans and, as such, we are subject to risk of defaults by borrowers. Our performance has been and will continue to be directly impacted by any defaults on the loans in our portfolio. As a commercial real estate lender willing to invest in loans to borrowers who may not meet the credit standards of other financial institutional lenders, the rate of default on our loans has been higher than those generally experienced in the real estate lending industry. A sustained period of increased defaults over the past several years has adversely affected our business, financial condition, liquidity and the results of our operations and may continue to do so in the future. Our exposure to the negative developments in the credit markets and general economy has likely been increased by our business strategy, which entails more lenient underwriting standards and expedited loan approval procedures. At this time, we are not able to predict how long such difficult economic conditions will continue. As a result, we may not be able to recover the full amount of our loans if the borrower defaults. Moreover, any failure of a borrower to pay interest on loans will reduce our revenues, impair our ability to pay dividends to stockholders and, most likely, the value of our stock. Similarly, any failure of a borrower to repay loans when due may reduce the capital we have available to make new loans, thereby adversely affecting our operating results. The recent recession and constraints in the credit markets adversely affected our operating results and financial condition. As a commercial real estate lender willing to invest in riskier loans, rates of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on our loans have been higher than those generally experienced in the commercial mortgage lending industry during periods of economic slowdown or recession. The recent recession adversely affected the general economy and the availability of funds for commercial real estate developers. We believe this lack of available funds led to an increase in defaults on our loans. Furthermore, problems experienced in the U.S. credit markets starting in the summer of 2007 have reduced the availability of credit for many prospective borrowers. These problems persist in the markets we are serving, making it more difficult for our borrowers to obtain the anticipated re-financing necessary in many cases to pay back our loans. Thus, an extended period of illiquidity in the credit markets has resulted in a material increase in the number of our loans that are not paid back on time. A continuation of increased delinquencies, defaults or foreclosures will have an adverse affect upon our ability to originate, purchase and securitize loans, which could significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The recovery of the general economy has not yet resulted in a material improvement of the real estate markets in many of our principal markets. In addition, the recession slowed economic activity, resulting in a decline in new lending. Continuation of depressed conditions in the principal markets we serve may result in our continuing to fund fewer loans, thereby reducing our opportunities to generate interest income. Our underwriting standards and procedures are more lenient than many institutional lenders, which has resulted and may continue to result in a higher level of non-performing assets and less amounts available for distribution. Our underwriting standards and procedures are more lenient than many institutional lenders in that we will invest in loans to borrowers who may not be required to meet the credit standards of other financial institutional real estate lenders. As a result, we have experienced and may continue to experience a higher rate of defaults by our borrowers and an increase in non-performing assets in our loan portfolio. We approve real estate loans more quickly than other lenders. We rely heavily on third-party reports and information such as appraisals and environmental reports. Because of our accelerated due diligence process, we may accept documentation that was not specifically prepared for us or commissioned by us. This creates a greater risk of the information contained therein being out of date or incorrect. Generally, we will not spend more than 20 days assessing the character and credit history of our borrowers. Due to the nature of loan approvals, there is a risk that the credit inquiry we perform will not reveal all material facts pertaining to the borrower and the security. -13- Table of Contents We depend upon our real estate security to secure our real estate loans, and we may suffer a loss if the value of the underlying property declines. We are currently experiencing a trend of declining real estate values, which has reduced the value of our collateral and resulted in losses on defaulted loans. We depend upon our real estate security to protect us on the loans that we make. We depend upon the skill of independent appraisers to value the security underlying our loans. However, notwithstanding the experience of the appraisers, they may make mistakes, or the value of the real estate may decrease due to subsequent events. Our appraisals are generally dated within 12 months of the date of loan origination and may have been commissioned by the borrower. Therefore, the appraisals may not reflect a decrease in the value of the real estate due to events subsequent to the date of the appraisals. Since the summer of 2007, there has been a significant decline in real estate values in many of the markets where we operate, resulting in a decline in the estimated value of the real estate securing our loans. Such decline may continue in several of the principal markets in which we operate. In addition, most of the construction and acquisition and development loan appraisals are prepared on an as-if developed basis, which approximates the post-construction value of the collateralized property assuming such property is developed. As-if developed values on raw land loans or acquisition and development loans often dramatically exceed the immediate sales value. Realization of the as-if-developed values may depend upon anticipated zoning changes, successful development by the borrower and the availability of additional financing. As most of the appraisals will be prepared on an as-if developed basis, if the loan goes into default prior to completion of the project, the market value of the property may be substantially less than the appraised value. As a result, there may be less security than anticipated at the time the loan was originally made. If there is less security and a default occurs, we may not recover the full amount of our loan, thus reducing the amount of funds available to distribute. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in the Western states, several of which have not recovered from in the recent recession. Lack of geographical diversification increases our vulnerability to market downturns. Commercial real estate markets in the states related to our loan portfolio have suffered significantly during the recent recession, with declining real estate values and high rates of default on real estate loans. Our loan concentration in these states has increased our vulnerability to the troubled real estate markets. Real estate markets vary greatly from location to location and our manager has limited experience outside of the Western and Southwestern United States. Any effort to expand into new geographical regions could be complicated by our manager’s lack of experience in such regions. We typically make “balloon payment” loans, which are riskier than loans with payments of principal over an extended period of time. The loans we invest in or purchase generally require the borrower to make a “balloon payment” on the principal amount upon maturity of the loan. A balloon payment is a large principal balance that is payable after a period of time during which the borrower has repaid none or only a small portion of the principal balance. Loans with balloon payments are riskier than loans with payments of principal over an extended time period such as 15 or 30 years because the borrower’s repayment depends on its ability to sell the property, obtain suitable refinancing or otherwise raise a substantial amount of cash when the loan comes due. The borrower’s ability to achieve a successful sale or refinancing of the property may be adversely impacted by deteriorating economic conditions or illiquidity in the credit markets. There are no specific criteria used in evaluating the credit quality of borrowers for loans requiring balloon payments. Furthermore, a substantial period of time may elapse between the review of the financial statements of the borrower and the date when the balloon payment is due. As a result, there is no assurance that a borrower will have sufficient resources to make a balloon payment when due. -14- Table of Contents An increased percentage of our loan portfolio consists of second deeds of trust, which generally entail a higher degree of risk than first deeds of trust. We invest in second deeds of trust and, in rare instances, wraparound, or all-inclusive, real estate loans. Our board is required to approve our investing more than 10% of our assets in second deeds of trust. During September 2008, the board authorized us to allow loans secured by second deeds of trust to constitute up to 15% of our loans, due to loan restructuring and business opportunities. However, as a result of sales, foreclosures and modifications of loans secured by first deeds of trust, our loans secured by second deeds of trust have exceeded these percentages. In a second deed of trust, our rights as a lender, including our rights to receive payment on foreclosure, will be subject to the rights of the first deed of trust. In a wraparound real estate loan, our rights will be similarly subject to the rights of a first deed of trust, but the aggregate indebtedness evidenced by our loan documentation will be the first deed of trust plus the new funds we invest. We would receive all payments from the borrower and forward to the senior lender its portion of the payments we receive. Because both of these types of loans are subject to the first deed of trust’s right to payment on foreclosure, we incur a greater risk when we invest in each of these types of loans that we will not be able to collect the full amount of our loan and may provide an allowance for the full amount of the loan. If we are unable to collect the amounts secured by second deeds of trust, our operating results will suffer and we will have less funds available to distribute to shareholders. Our loans are not guaranteed by any governmental agency. Our loans are not insured or guaranteed by a federally owned or guaranteed mortgage agency. Consequently, our recourse, if there is a default, may be to foreclose upon the real property securing a loan and/or pursuing the borrower’s guarantee of the principal. The value of the foreclosed property may have decreased and may not be equal to the amount outstanding under the corresponding loan, resulting in a decrease of the amount available to distribute. Our real estate loans are not readily marketable, and we expect no secondary market to develop. Our real estate loans are not readily marketable, and we do not expect a secondary market to develop for them. As a result, we will generally bear all the risk of our investment until the loans mature. This will limit our ability to hedge our risk in changing real estate markets and may result in reduced returns to our investors. The terms of any indebtedness we incur may increase our operating risk and may reduce the amount we have available to distribute to stockholders. We may borrow up to 70% of the fair market value of our outstanding real estate loans at any time. The terms of any additional indebtedness we incur may vary. However, some lenders may require as a condition of making a loan to us that the lender will receive a priority on loan repayments received by us. As a result, if we do not collect 100% on our investments, the first dollars may go to our lenders and we may incur a loss that will result in a decrease of the amount available for distribution. In addition, we may enter into securitization arrangements in order to raise additional funds. Such arrangements could increase our leverage and adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to declare dividends. There is a substantial risk that we would be unable to raise additional funding if needed to meet our obligations or expand our loan portfolio. Our ability to borrow funds to meet obligations or expand our loan portfolio is doubtful in light of current market conditions. In addition, our ability to raise funds through an equity financing would be hindered by the current price of our stock. As a result, our ability to grow is constrained and we must depend upon our internal resources to meet our obligations. If we raise capital through an equity offering, this may result in substantial dilution to our current stockholders. Any debt financing may be expensive and might include restrictive covenants that would constrain our ability to declare dividends to our shareholders. We may not be able to raise capital on reasonable terms, if at all, in the current market environment. -15- Table of Contents We have and may continue to have difficulty protecting our rights as a secured lender. We believe that our loan documents will enable us to enforce our commercial arrangements with borrowers. However, the rights of borrowers and other secured lenders may limit our practical realization of those benefits. For example: • Judicial foreclosure is subject to the delays of protracted litigation. Although we expect non-judicial foreclosure to be quicker, our collateral may deteriorate and decrease in value during any delay in foreclosing on it; • The borrower’s right of redemption during foreclosure proceedings can deter the sale of our collateral and can for practical purposes require us to manage the property; • Unforeseen environmental hazards may subject us to unexpected liability and procedural delays in exercising our rights; • The rights of senior or junior secured parties in the same property can create procedural hurdles for us when we foreclose on collateral; • Required licensing and regulatory approvals may complicate our ability to foreclose or to sell a foreclosed property where our collateral includes an operating business; • We may not be able to pursue deficiency judgments after we foreclose on collateral; and • State and federal bankruptcy laws can prevent us from pursuing any actions, regardless of the progress in any of these suits or proceedings. By becoming the owner of property, we have and may continue to incur additional obligations, which may reduce the amount of funds available for distribution. We intend to own real property. Acquiring a property at a foreclosure sale may involve significant costs. If we foreclose on the security property, we expect to obtain the services of a real estate broker and pay the broker’s commission in connection with the sale of the property. We may incur substantial legal fees and court costs in acquiring a property through contested foreclosure and/or bankruptcy proceedings. In addition, significant expenditures, including property taxes, maintenance costs, mortgage payments, insurance costs and related charges, must be made on any property we own regardless of whether the property is producing any income. Under applicable environmental laws, any owner of real property may be fully liable for the costs involved in cleaning up any contamination by materials hazardous to the environment. Even though we might be entitled to indemnification from the person that caused the contamination, there is no assurance that the responsible person would be able to indemnify us to the full extent of our liability. Furthermore, we would still have court and administrative expenses for which we may not be entitled to indemnification. Our results are subject to fluctuations in interest rates and other economic conditions. Our results of operations will vary with changes in interest rates and with the performance of the relevant real estate markets. If the economy is healthy, we expect that more people will be borrowing money to acquire, develop or renovate real property. However, if the economy grows too fast, interest rates may increase too much and the cost of borrowing may become too expensive. Alternatively, if the economy enters a recession as we currently have experienced, real estate development may continue to slow. The slowdown in real estate lending may mean we will have fewer loans to acquire, thus reducing our revenues and dividends to stockholders. As a result of the current economic recession, our revenues and dividends have been reduced. -16- Table of Contents Interest rate fluctuations may affect our operating results as follows: • If interest rates rise, borrowers under loans with monthly or quarterly principal payments may be compelled to extend their loans to decrease the principal paid with each payment because the interest component has increased. If this happens, we are likely to be at a greater risk of the borrower defaulting on the extended loan, and the increase in the interest rate on our loan may not be adequate compensation for the increased risk. Additionally, any fees paid to extend the loan are paid to our manager or affiliated mortgage brokers, not to us. Our revenues and dividends will decline if we are unable to reinvest at higher rates or if an increasing number of borrowers default on their loans; and • If interest rates decline, the amount we can charge as interest on our loans will also likely decline. Moreover, if a borrower should prepay obligations that have a higher interest rate from an earlier period, we will likely not be able to reinvest the funds in real estate loans earning that higher rate of interest. In the absence of a prepayment fee, we will receive neither the anticipated revenue stream at the higher rate nor any compensation for its loss. However, depending upon the amount by which interest rates decline, the amount of the exit fees is generally not significant in relation to the potential savings borrowers may realize as a result of prepaying their loans. We may have a lack of control over participations. We will consider investing in or purchasing loans jointly with other lenders and purchasers, some of whom might be affiliates of Vestin Mortgage. We will initially have, and will maintain a controlling interest as lead lender in participations with non-affiliates. Although it is not our intention to lose control, there is a risk that we will be unable to remain as the lead lender in the loans in which we participate in the future. In the event of participation with a publicly registered affiliate, the investment objectives of the participants shall be substantially identical. There shall be no duplicate fees. The compensation to the sponsors must be substantially identical, and the investment of each participant must be on substantially the same terms and conditions. Each participant shall have a right of first refusal to buy the other's interest if the co-participant decides to sell its interest. We will not participate in joint ventures or partnerships with affiliates that are not publicly registered except as permitted by applicable NASAA Guidelines or otherwise approved by the independent members of our board of directors. If our co-participant affiliate determines to sell its interest in the loan, there is no guarantee that we will have the resources to purchase such interest and we will have no control over a sale to a third party purchaser. Bankruptcy of a Borrower If a borrower becomes a debtor under bankruptcy law, either voluntarily or involuntarily, an automatic stay of all proceedings against the borrower's property will be in effect. This stay will prevent us, or our related entities, from foreclosing on the property until relief from the stay can be obtained from the bankruptcy court. No guarantee can be given that the bankruptcy court will lift the stay, and significant legal fees and costs may be incurred in attempting to obtain such relief. Further, in certain bankruptcy reorganization plans, the bankruptcy court may modify the terms of the loan as part of a reorganization plan of the debtor. In the event a loan is unsecured, the Bankruptcy Court may wipe out the debt owing to us altogether. Risk of Legal Claims Lawsuits may damage our ability to meet our obligations to you. We are exposed to legal claims in the ordinary course of our business. Claims by borrowers in default or disappointed investors or others may require the time and attention of our management and could result in adverse judgments which would damage our financial condition and impair our ability to make principal and interest payments on the Notes. -17- Table of Contents Real Estate Investments Unsettled market conditions may persist, which could result in significant losses on any properties we acquire, thereby adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The economy remains unsettled, with growth prospects uncertain because of high unemployment and depressed conditions in several of the real estate markets where we intend to acquire properties, primarily in the Southwestern and Western parts of the United States. Should real estate markets in the areas we purchase in continue to struggle, there is a significant risk that any real estate investments we make may prove unprofitable. An economic slowdown may result in decreased demand for space in the properties we acquire, forcing us to lower rents or provide tenant improvements at our expense or provide other concessions or additional services to attract tenants in any of our properties that have excess supply. Further deterioration in the real estate market after we acquire properties may result in a decline in the market value of our properties or cause us to experience other losses related to our assets, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Our Manager’s experience is primarily in real estate secured lending, not acquiring real estate. Our Manager is primarily engaged in the business of making real estate secured loans. It has relatively limited experience operating a business that invests in real estate. Most of this experience relates to its management of Vestin Fund III, LLC (“Fund III”), a company which was engaged both in lending and acquiring real estate. While our Manager has gained experience in managing and repositioning properties acquired through foreclosure, its limited experience running a business that seeks to identify suitable properties for investment may result in our acquiring properties that prove to be bad investments. Our relatively small size may result in a portfolio of investments which lacks diversification. Because of our relatively small size compared to many of our competitors, the aggregate number of properties we are able to acquire at any given time will be limited. In addition, we may not be successful in obtaining financing to fund our acquisitions. Accordingly, our portfolio of acquired properties may lack diversification. If our portfolio is not diversified, any loss experienced on one or more properties can be expected to have a material adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and our results of operations. We may incur debt to acquire properties and our cash flow may not be sufficient to make required payments on any such debt or repay such debt as it matures. We may rely on debt financing for a portion of the purchase price of properties we acquire. Depending on the level of debt that we incur, we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our funds from operations to servicing our debt, and our cash flow may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. If a property is mortgaged to secure payment of debt and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose upon that property, appoint a receiver and receive an assignment of rents and leases or pursue other remedies. In addition, if principal payments due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or paid with proceeds of other capital transactions, our cash flow may not be sufficient to repay maturing debt. We do not anticipate that any debt we may incur will require significant principal payments prior to maturity. However, we may need to raise additional equity capital, obtain secured or unsecured debt financing, issue private or public debt, or sell some of our assets to either refinance or repay our debt as it matures. We cannot assure you that these sources of financing or refinancing will be available to us at reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to obtain financing or refinancing to repay our maturing debt, and our inability to refinance existing debt on reasonable terms, may require us to make higher interest and principal payments, issue additional equity securities, or sell some of our assets on disadvantageous terms, all or any of which may result in foreclosure of properties, partial or complete loss on our investment and otherwise adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. -18- Table of Contents We will face significant competition in our efforts to acquire properties. Our acquisition strategy is focused on commercial real estate, and we will face significant competition from other investors, REITs, hedge funds, private equity funds and other private real estate investors with greater financial resources and access to capital than available to us. A number of funds have recently been formed for the specific purpose of investing in commercial real estate. We may not be able to compete successfully for investments with larger, better capitalized firms or with companies that have extensive contacts in the real estate industry. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of purchasers competing for suitable investments may increase, all of which could result in competition for accretive acquisition opportunities and adversely affect our acquisition plans. Significant competition for distressed properties could also have the effect of driving up the prices of such properties, thereby making it more difficult to acquire properties at a deep discount to intrinsic value. The properties we acquire will be subject to property taxes that may increase in the future, which could adversely affect our cash flow. The properties we acquire will be subject to property taxes that may increase as property tax rates change and as the properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. As the owner of the properties, we are ultimately responsible for payment of the taxes to the government. If property taxes increase, our tenants may be unable to make the required tax payments, ultimately requiring us to pay the taxes. Compliance or failure to comply with laws requiring access to our properties by disabled persons could result in substantial cost. The Americans with Disabilities Act, or ADA, and other federal, state and local laws generally require public accommodations be made accessible to disabled persons. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the government or the award of damages to private litigants. These laws may require us to modify the properties we acquire. Legislation or regulations adopted in the future may impose further burdens or restrictions on us with respect to improved access by disabled persons. We may incur unanticipated expenses that may be material to our financial condition or results of operations to comply with ADA and other laws, or in connection with lawsuits brought by private litigants. We may face intense competition for tenants at the properties we acquire. We may face competition from developers, owners and operators of commercial real estate who may own properties similar to ours in the same markets where we acquire properties. If our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates, or below the rental rates we currently charge our tenants, we may lose existing or potential tenants and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we expect to charge or to offer more substantial rent abatements, tenant improvements, early termination rights or below-market renewal options in order to retain tenants when our tenants’ leases expire. This competitive environment could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease our properties or any newly developed or acquired property, as well as on the rents charged. The properties we acquire may expose us to unknown liabilities, which could harm our growth and future operations. We may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, against the prior owners or other third parties with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle or contest it, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Unknown liabilities with respect to acquired properties might include liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by tenants, vendors or other persons against the former owners of the properties, liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. -19- Table of Contents We may be required to make significant capital expenditures to improve our properties in order to retain and attract tenants, causing a decline in operating revenues and reducing cash available for debt service and distributions to stockholders. To the extent adverse economic conditions continue in the real estate market and demand for commercial space remains low, we may be required to make rent or other concessions to tenants, accommodate requests for renovations, build-to-suit remodeling and other improvements or provide additional services to our tenants. As a result, we may have to make significant capital or other expenditures in order to retain tenants whose leases expire and to attract new tenants in sufficient numbers. Additionally, we may need to raise capital to make such expenditures. If we are unable to do so or capital is otherwise unavailable, we may be unable to make the required expenditures. This could result in non-renewals by tenants upon expiration of their leases, which would result in declines in revenues from operations and reduce cash available for debt service and distributions to stockholders. We may face potential difficulties or delays renewing leases or re-leasing space to tenants, which could adversely affect our cash flow and revenues. We will depend upon rents received from our tenants to generate income from our acquired properties. If a tenant experiences a downturn in its business or other types of financial distress, it may be unable to make timely rental payments. As a result, our cash flow could decrease and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected. Properties that have significant vacancies could be difficult to sell, which could diminish our return on investment. A property may incur vacancies either by the continued default of tenants under their leases or the expiration of tenant leases. If vacancies continue for a long period of time, we may suffer reduced revenues. In addition, the resale value of the property could be diminished because the market value of a particular property may depend principally upon the value of the leases of such property. The illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties and harm our financial condition. Real estate investments, especially commercial properties, are relatively illiquid and may become even more illiquid during periods of economic downturn. As a result, we may not be able to sell a property or properties quickly or on favorable terms, or otherwise promptly change our portfolio, in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions when it otherwise may be prudent to do so. This inability to respond quickly to changes in the performance of our properties and sell an unprofitable property could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations, thereby limiting our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Rising energy costs may have an adverse effect on our operations and revenue. Electricity and natural gas, the most common sources of energy used by commercial buildings, are subject to significant price volatility. In recent years, energy costs, including energy generated by natural gas and electricity, have fluctuated significantly. Some of our properties may be subject to leases that require our tenants to pay all utility costs while other leases may provide that tenants will reimburse us for utility costs in excess of a base year amount. It is possible that some or all of our tenants will not fulfill their lease obligations and reimburse us for their share of any significant energy rate increases and that we will not be able to retain or replace our tenants if energy price fluctuations continue. Also, to the extent under a lease we agree to pay for such costs, rising energy prices will have a negative effect on our results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. -20- Table of Contents Uninsured losses or losses in excess of our insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition and our cash flows. We plan to maintain comprehensive liability, fire, flood, earthquake, wind (as deemed necessary or as required by lenders), extended coverage and rental loss insurance with respect to our acquired properties. Certain types of losses, however, may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable, such as losses due to earthquakes, riots, acts of war or terrorism. Should an uninsured loss occur, we could lose both our investment in and anticipated profits and cash flows from a property. If any such loss is insured, we may be required to pay a significant deductible on any claim for recovery of the loss prior to our insurer being obligated to reimburse us for the loss, or the amount of the loss may exceed our coverage for the loss. In addition, we may determine not to insure some or all of our properties at levels considered customary in our industry and which would expose us to an increased risk of loss. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the value of our common stock may be adversely affected. Environmental liabilities are possible and can be costly. Federal law imposes liability on a landowner for the presence of improperly disposed hazardous substances on the landowner’s property. This liability is without regard to fault for or knowledge of the presence of such substances and may be imposed jointly and severally upon all succeeding landowners from the date of the first improper disposal. The laws of the states and localities in which we may acquire properties may have similar or additional requirements. We cannot assure that hazardous substances or wastes, contaminants, pollutants or sources thereof (as defined by present or future state and federal laws and regulations) will not be discovered on properties during our ownership or after sale to a third party. If such hazardous materials are discovered on a property, we may be required to remove those substances or sources and clean up such affected property. We may incur full recourse liability for the entire cost of any such removal and cleanup. We cannot assure you that the cost of any such removal and cleanup would not exceed the value of the property or that we could recoup any such costs from any third party. We may also be liable to tenants and other users of the affected property and to owners, tenants or users of neighboring properties, and it may find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected property prior to or following any such cleanup. We intend to rely on the knowledge of our management team in making investment decisions. We are relying on the ability of our management, including our Manager and its management, our executive officers, and the Board. All aspects of the management of the Company are entrusted to the Manager, our executive officers, and the Board. We intend to rely on the knowledge of our management team concerning our target markets in the Southwestern and Western parts of the United States. We may determine whether or not to invest in specific properties based entirely on our executives’ knowledge of a given real estate market. In the event that we lose one or more of our executive officers or terminate the relationship with our Manager, it could have a material adverse impact on our business and our results of operations. We may participate in joint venture investments, which have additional risk. We may participate in joint ventures with non-affiliated persons. Our investment in joint ventures which own properties, instead of investing directly in the properties itself, may involve additional risks including, but not limited to: · the possibility that our partner might become bankrupt; · the possibility that our partner may at any time have economic or business interests or goals which are inconsistent or compete with the business interests or goals of the Company; or · the possibility that our partner may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives. Among other things, actions by such a partner might have the result of subjecting property owned by the joint venture to liabilities in excess of those contemplated by the terms of the joint venture agreement, might expose us to liabilities of the joint venture in excess of our proportionate share of such liabilities or might have other adverse consequences for the Company. There is an additional risk that joint venturers may not be able to agree on matters relating to the property they own, and that unresolved disputes may delay the joint venture’s ability to act and result in substantial costs to the joint venturers. -21- Table of Contents We may also from time to time participate jointly with investment programs or other entities sponsored by the Manager or one of its affiliates. The risks of such joint ownership may be similar to those mentioned above. However, the Company or the Manager may also experience difficulty in enforcing the Company’s rights in the joint venture due to the obligations that the Manager or our directors or officers may owe to the other partner in such a joint venture. Increasing numbers of loan defaults may negatively impact our business. The regions in which we intend to operate have experienced a marked increase in the number of loans that are in default or are at risk of default. If levels of defaults remain high or rise further, our business may be negatively affected in a number of ways. As a holder of loans, we may experience significant losses due to defaults by borrowers. Defaults may also make obtaining financing more difficult. This may hinder our ability to acquire properties with financing and may also make it difficult for us to resell properties we acquire. Potential buyers may be unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms, with the result that the demand for our properties may be reduced and resale prices may be depressed. Additionally, sales of properties at reduced prices will lower the value of comparable properties. As defaults rise, foreclosures may negatively impact the value of the properties in which we invest. We may lose some or all of our investment in these properties as a result. Conflicts of Interest Risks Our manager and its affiliates face conflicts of interest arising from fees received from our real estate assets. Affiliated or non-affiliated mortgage brokers receive substantial fees from borrowers on real estate loans that we invest in that would otherwise increase our returns. Many of these fees are paid on an up-front basis. In some cases, the mortgage brokers or our manager may be entitled to additional fees for loan extensions or modifications and loan assumptions, reconveyances and exit fees. The mortgage brokers’ compensation is based on the volume and size of the real estate loans selected for us, regardless of their performance, which could create an incentive to make or extend riskier loans. Our interests may diverge from those of our manager, affiliated or non-affiliated mortgage brokers and Mr. Shustek when our manager decides whether we should charge the borrower higher interest rates or our manager’s affiliates should receive higher fees from borrowers and to the extent that the mortgage brokers benefit from up-front fees that are not shared with us. Our manager and/or its affiliates may receive substantial fees from us for their services in connection with the acquisition, disposition and management of commercial real estate properties. These fees could influence our manager and the recommendations that it makes in investing in a particular property or may result in paying a higher purchase price for the property than it would otherwise recommend if it did not receive fees. The fees may also influence our manager to recommend transactions with respect to the sale of a property or properties that may not be in our best interest at the time. These fees are payable regardless as to the quality of the underlying real estate or property management services and our manager has considerable discretion with respect to the acquisition, disposition and leasing of our real estate properties. We rely on our manager to manage our day-to-day operations and select our real estate assets for investment. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives and to pay dividends to our shareholders depends upon our manager’s and its affiliate’s performance in obtaining, processing, making and brokering loans and the selection of commercial real estate properties for us to invest in and determining the financing arrangements for borrowers and the acquisition of commercial properties. Stockholders have no opportunity to evaluate information on properties that we acquire or the financial status and creditworthiness of borrowers, the terms of mortgages, the real property that is our collateral or other economic or financial data concerning our loans and commercial properties. We pay our manager an annual management fee of up to 0.25% of our aggregate capital received by us from the sale of shares or membership units. This fee is payable regardless of the performance of our loan portfolio or commercial properties. Our manager’s duties to our stockholders are generally governed by the terms of the Management Agreement, rather than by common law principles of fiduciary duty. Moreover, our manager is not required to devote its employees’ full time to our business and may devote time to business interests competitive to our business. -22- Table of Contents Our success depends on certain key personnel, the loss of whom could adversely affect our operating results, and on our manager’s ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our success depends in part upon the continued contributions of Michael V. Shustek (Chief Executive Officer and President). Mr. Shustek has extensive experience in our line of business, extensive market contacts and familiarity with our company. If Mr. Shustek were to cease his employment with our manager, he might be difficult to replace and our operating results could suffer. None of the key personnel of our manager is subject to an employment, non-competition or confidentiality agreement with our manager, or us and we do not maintain “key man” life insurance policies on any of them. Our future success also depends upon our manager’s ability to hire and retain additional highly skilled managerial, operational and marketing personnel. Our manager may require additional operations and marketing people who are experienced in obtaining, processing, making and brokering loans and in the acquisition, disposition and management of real properties, the selection of tenants for our real properties and the determination of any financing arrangements and who also have contacts in the relevant markets. Competition for personnel is intense, and we cannot be assured that we will be successful in attracting and retaining skilled personnel. If our manager were unable to attract and retain key personnel, the ability of our manager to make prudent investment decisions on our behalf may be impaired. Vestin Mortgage serves as our manager pursuant to a long-term Management Agreement that may be difficult to terminate and does not reflect arm’s length negotiations. We have entered into a long-term Management Agreement with Vestin Mortgage to act as our manager. The term of the Management Agreement is for the duration of our existence. The Management Agreement may only be terminated upon the affirmative vote of a majority in interest of stockholders entitled to vote on the matter or by our board of directors for cause upon 90 days’ written notice of termination. Consequently, it may be difficult to terminate our Management Agreement and replace our manager in the event that our performance does not meet expectations or for other reasons unless the conditions for termination of the Management Agreement are satisfied. The Management Agreement was negotiated by related parties and may not reflect terms as favorable as those subject to arm’s length bargaining. Our manager faces conflicts of interest concerning the allocation of its personnel’s time. Our manager is also the manager of VRM I and Fund III. VRM I is a company with investment objectives similar to ours and Fund III has commenced an orderly liquidation of its assets. Our manager and Mr. Shustek, who indirectly owns a majority of our manager, anticipate that they may also sponsor other real estate programs having investment objectives similar to ours. As a result, our manager and Mr. Shustek may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time and resources between our business and other activities. During times of intense activity in other programs and ventures, our manager and its key people will likely devote less time and resources to our business than they ordinarily would. Our Management Agreement with our manager does not specify a minimum amount of time and attention that our manager and its key people are required to devote to our company. Thus, our manager may not spend sufficient time managing our operations, which could result in our not meeting our investment objectives. Our manager faces conflicts of interest relating to other investments in real estate loans. We expect to invest in real estate assets consisting of loans and, commercial properties when one or more other companies managed by our manager are also investing in real estate loans and commercial properties. There is a risk that our manager may select for us a real estate asset investment that provides lower returns than an investment purchased by another program or entity managed by our manager. Our manager is also the manager of VRM I and Fund III. VRM I is a company with investment objectives similar to ours and Fund III is in the process of an orderly liquidation of its assets. There are no restrictions or guidelines on how our manager will determine which real estate assets are appropriate for us and which are appropriate for VRM I or another company that our manager manages. Moreover, our manager has no obligation to provide us with any particular opportunities or even a pro rata share of opportunities afforded to other companies it manages. -23- Table of Contents Our manager may face conflicts of interest in considering a possible combination of the Company with VRM I. VRM I is a company that engages in making mortgage loans similar to the loans that we make and is managed by our manager. There may be cost savings and operating synergies that could be achieved by our combination with VRM I. Our management has evaluated issues relevant to a proposed combination; however at this time, no decision has been made with respect to whether the proposed combination will take place. Since our manager owes a duty to the investors in each of these entities, it could face a conflict of interest in considering such a combination. Any decision with respect to the proposed combination with VRM I will be subject to the approval of the independent directors and stockholders of VRM I as well as the approval of our Board of Directors and stockholders. 