ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS – The following risk factors and other information included in this annual report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and future results could be harmed Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “continue,” or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. Factors that might cause or contribute to such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those described here in as “Risk Factors” and elsewhere and in our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Given such risks and uncertainties, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements do not guarantee future performance and should not be considered statements of fact. These forward-looking statement speak only as of the date of this report and, unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect new information or future events or otherwise. 24 The Company has a history of losses and there can be no assurance that the Company will become or remain profitable or that losses will not continue to occur. The Company has a history of losses. The Company had a loss from operations of $33.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to a net loss of $14.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. There can be no assurance that the Company will become or remain profitable or that losses will not continue to occur. The Company must obtain additional sources of capital in the near term to fund its operations. The Company’s existing capital resources are not sufficient to fund operations. If the Company is unable to obtain adequate additional sources of capital in the near term it will need to cease all or a portion of its operations, seek protection under U.S. bankruptcy laws and regulations, engage in a restructuring or undertake a combination of these and other actions. Additional sources of capital, if obtained, would likely come from sales by the Company of debt and/or equity and/or the sale of material assets of the Company. The Company is currently negotiating potential transactions that would supply it with capital necessary to meet its current requirements. However, these negotiations may not result in successful consummation of any transaction. If the Company is able to successfully consummate a transaction, such transaction may result in substantial dilution to the Company’s existing security holdings and/or the incurrence of substantial indebtedness on relatively expensive terms. The terms of any such transaction would also likely involve covenants that serve to substantially restrict the operations of the Company and its management and could result in a change of control of the Company. The Company is currently in default under its existing credit facilities and has negotiated with the lenders thereunder to agree to forbear on exercising any remedies available to them while the Company seeks alternative sources of funding. On March 20, 2008, the Company entered into an amendment to its Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (“Credit Agreement”) with Silver Point Finance, LLC and Wells Fargo Foothill, Inc. Under the terms of the Amendment, the lender group has agreed to forbear from exercising certain of their rights and remedies with respect to designated defaults under the Credit Agreement through the earlier of (a) April 18, 2008 and (b) the date of occurrence of certain events or by which certain events have failed to occur, including the Company’s failure to enter into agreements with respect to the sale of certain of its assets and the Company’s failure to secure approvals for, and meet other criteria with respect to, financing alternatives necessary to meet the Company’s immediate capital requirements. If the Company is unable to meet all criteria under the forbearance agreement, the lender group will have all remedies available to them under the Credit Agreement, including demanding immediate payment of the obligation. We incur and may continue to incur losses on newly acquired or built stations without an immediate return on our investment. Generally, it takes a few years for our newly acquired or built stations to generate operating cash flow. A majority of the Company’s network stations have been acquired or built within the last five years. During the initial period after acquisition or construction of a station, we incur significant expenses related to: 25 • acquiring syndicated programming; • improving technical facilities; • increasing and improving cable distribution; • hiring new personnel; and • marketing our television stations to viewers. In addition, it requires time to gain viewer awareness of new station programming and to attract advertisers. Accordingly, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, with newly acquired or built stations, losses at a station in the first few years after we acquire or build the station without an immediate return on our investment. Occasionally unforeseen expenses and delays increase the estimated initial start-up expenses. This requires our established stations to generate revenues and cash flow sufficient to meet our business plan including the significant expenses related to our newly acquired or built stations. The loss of the services of our senior management team or a significant number of our employees may negatively affect our business. Our success is largely dependent on the continued services of our senior management team, which includes Henry Luken, III, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Larry Morton, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Retro Programming Services, Inc., Thomas M. Arnost, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Broadcast Station Group, Patrick Doran, Chief Financial Officer, Mario Ferrari, Chief Strategic Officer, Gregory Fess, Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Mark Dvornik, Executive Vice President of Retro Television Network, James Hearnsberger, Vice President — Finance & Administration, Lori Withrow, Secretary and Glenn Charlesworth, Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer. The loss of the services of our senior management team could harm our business if we are not able to find an appropriate replacement on a timely basis. Our success will also be dependent in part on our ability to attract and retain quality general managers and other management personnel for our stations. Further, the loss of a significant number of employees or our inability to hire a sufficient number of qualified employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on our network affiliation relationship with Univision for maintaining our existing Spanish- business. Many of our television stations are affiliates of Univision and Telefutura (collectively for this discussion, “Univision”). These affiliated television stations accounted for 41% and 28% of the Company’s revenues and net loss from television operations, respectively, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 and 36% and 39% of the Company’s revenues and net loss from television operations, respectively, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. Accordingly, our operating performance largely depends on our stations’ continued relationship with Univision and on Univision’s continued success as a broadcast network. We cannot be sure that the ratings of Univision programming will continue to improve or that Univision will continue to provide programming, marketing and other support to its affiliates on the same basis as currently provided. Finally, by aligning ourselves closely with Univision, we may forego other opportunities that could provide diversity of network affiliation and avoid dependence on any one network. We expect the competition for and the prices of syndicated programming will continue to increase and we may not be able to acquire desired syndicated programming on acceptable terms or at all. On our English language stations, one of our most significant operating costs is syndicated programming. We may be exposed in the future to increase syndicated programming costs that may adversely affect our operating results. In addition, syndicated programs that meet our criteria may not be available in the future or may not be available at prices that are acceptable to us. We believe that the prices of the most sought after syndicated programming will continue to increase. 26 Syndicated programming rights are often acquired several years in advance and may require multi-year commitments, making it difficult to accurately predict how a program will perform. In some instances, programs must be replaced before their costs have been fully amortized, resulting in write-offs that increase station operating costs. Competition for popular programming licensed from third parties is intense, and we may be outbid by our competitors for the rights to new popular syndicated rerun programming or in connection with the renewal of popular rerun syndicated programming we currently license. In addition, renewal costs could substantially exceed the existing contract costs. If we are unable to acquire certain popular programming, our ratings could decrease which could adversely affect our revenue. Our planned expansion of Retro Television Network may not materialize as we anticipate. Although to date we have been very successful in signing up new RTN affiliates, we may not be able to continue signing up affiliates in key demographic markets. Failure to continue signing up key affiliate partners in top DMA markets will impact our ability to generate advertising revenue. An inability to sell sufficient advertising spots will impact our ability to generate profits. We also rely on our ability to license programming for our RTN affiliate stations at a reasonable cost to program the stations. An adverse change in our programming agreements could impact our profitability. Increasing competition in the broadcast television industry and its programming alternatives may adversely affect us. The broadcast television industry is highly competitive, and our success depends in large part on our ability to compete successfully with other network affiliated and independent broadcast television stations and other media for viewers and advertising revenues. The ability of broadcast television stations to generate advertising revenues depends to a significant degree upon audience ratings. Through the 1970s, network television broadcasting generally enjoyed dominance in viewership and television advertising revenues, because network-affiliated television stations competed principally with each other in local markets. Beginning in the 1980s, however, this dominance began to decline. Programming alternatives, such as independent broadcast stations, cable television and other multi-channel competitors, pay-per-view and home videos have fragmented television viewing audiences and subjected television broadcast stations to new types of competition. Since the mid-1980s, cable television and formerly independent stations now affiliated with new networks have captured increasing market share and overall viewership from general broadcast network television. Cable-originated programming in particular has emerged as a significant competitor for broadcast television programming. We also face increasing competition from home satellite delivery, direct broadcast satellite television systems and video delivery systems utilizing telephone lines. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater resources than us. As a result of this competition, our revenues could be adversely affected. New technologies may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Advances in technology may increase competition for viewers and advertising revenue which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, advances in video compression technology could lower entry barriers for new video channels and encourage the development of increasingly specialized “niche” programming. This may increase the number of competitors targeting the same demographic group as us. Future competition in the television industry may include the provision of interactive video and data services capable of providing two-way interaction with commercial video programming, together with information and data services, that may be delivered by commercial television stations, cable television, direct broadcast satellite television and other video delivery systems. 27 The loss of major advertisers, a reduction in their advertising expenditures, a decrease in advertising rates or a change in economic conditions may materially harm our business. We derive substantially all of our revenues from advertisers in diverse industries at the local, regional and national levels. The loss of any major advertiser, a reduction in their advertising expenditures, a general decrease in advertising rates, or adverse developments or changes in the local, regional or national economy could materially harm our business by reducing our revenue. Our revenues are affected by seasonal trends causing additional cash flow concerns during the slower seasons. The revenues and cash flows of our television stations are subject to various seasonal factors that influence the television broadcasting industry as a whole. Like other broadcasters, we experience higher revenues and cash flows during the second and fourth quarters of the year when television viewing and advertising is higher compared to the first and third quarters. The slower seasons result in lower revenue which causes additional cash flow concerns during these quarters. Failure to observe governmental rules and regulations governing the granting, renewal, transfer and assignment of licenses and our inability to conclusively anticipate timing and approval actions could negatively impact our business. Television broadcasting is a regulated industry and is subject to the jurisdiction of the FCC under the Communications Act. The Communications Act prohibits the operation of television broadcasting stations except under a license issued by the FCC. Licenses may be as long as eight years under current law. The Communications Act also prohibits the assignment of a broadcast license or the transfer of control of a broadcast licensee without the prior approval of the FCC. Additionally, a party must obtain a construction permit from the FCC in order to build a new television station and subsequently obtain a license to commence operations. The Communications Act empowers the FCC, among other things to issue, revoke and modify broadcast licenses; decide whether to approve a change of ownership or control of station licenses; regulate the equipment used by stations; and adopt and implement regulations to carry out the provisions of the Communications Act. In determining whether to grant, renew, or permit the assignment or transfer of control of a broadcast license, the FCC considers a number of factors pertaining to the licensee, including: • compliance with various rules limiting common ownership of media properties; • the character of the licensee (i.e., the likelihood that the licensee will comply with applicable law and regulations) and those persons holding attributable interests (i.e., the level of ownership or other involvement in station operations resulting in the FCC attributing ownership of that station or other media outlet to such person or entity in determining compliance with FCC ownership limitations; and • compliance with the Communications Act’s limitations on alien ownership. Additionally, for a renewal of a broadcast license, the FCC will consider whether a station has served the public interest, convenience, and necessity, whether there have been any serious violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or FCC rules and policies, and whether there have been no other violations of the Communications Act and FCC rules and policies which, taken together, would constitute a pattern of abuse. Any other party with standing may petition the FCC to deny a broadcaster’s application for renewal. However, only if the FCC issues an order denying renewal will the FCC accept and consider applications from other parties for a construction permit for a new station to operate on that channel. The FCC may not consider any new applicant for the channel in making determinations concerning the grant or denial of the licensee’s renewal application. Although renewal of licenses is granted in the majority of cases even when petitions to deny have been filed, we cannot be sure our station licenses will be renewed for a full term or without modification. 28 With respect to obtaining the FCC’s consent prior to assigning a broadcast license or transferring control of a broadcast licensee, if the application involves a substantial change in ownership or control, the filer must comply with the public notice requirements. During the public notice period of not less than 30 days, petitions to deny the application may be filed by interested parties, including certain members of the public. If the FCC grants the application, interested parties then have a minimum 30 day period during which they may seek reconsideration or review of that grant by the FCC or, as the case may be, a court of competent jurisdiction. The full FCC commission has an additional 10 days to set aside on its own motion any action taken by the FCC’s staff. Due to the factors set forth above, it is possible that the FCC could not approve some or all of the licenses held by the Company in connection with the change in control from the proposed merger with Coconut Palm. The FCC’s denial of the change in control for some or all of the licenses or a delay in the FCC’s review of the change in control requests may negatively impact the merger and possibly prevent the merger from being consummated between the parties. In addition, assuming the merger were to occur, the combined company’s failure to observe FCC or other governmental rules and policies can result in the imposition of various sanctions, including monetary forfeitures, the grant of short, or less than maximum license renewal terms or for particularly egregious violations, the denial of a license renewal application, the revocation of a license or denial of FCC consent to acquire additional broadcast properties — any of which could negatively impact both our existing business and future acquisitions. Additionally, our inability to conclusively anticipate the timing and approval of license grants, renewals, transfers and assignments may result in uncertainty and negatively impact our business because of delays and additional expenses. Changes in FCC regulations regarding media ownership limits have increased the uncertainty surrounding the competitive position of our stations in the markets we serve and may adversely affect our ability to buy new television stations or sell existing television stations. In June 2003, the FCC amended its multiple ownership rules, including, among other things, its local television ownership limitations, its prohibition on common ownership of newspapers and broadcast stations in the same market, as well as its local radio ownership limitations. Under the amended rules, a single entity would be permitted to own up to two television stations in a market with at least five television stations if one of the stations is not among the top-4 ranked stations and could own three television stations in a market with at least 18 television stations as long as two of the stations are not among the top-4 ranked stations. The amended rules also establish new cross media limits to govern the combined ownership of television stations, radio stations and daily newspapers. Specifically, in markets with 4-8 television stations, a single entity can own (1) a combination of one daily newspaper, one television station, and half the ownership limit of radio stations, (2) a combination of one daily newspaper and the full complement of allowed radio stations, or (3) a combination of two television stations (if otherwise permissible) and the full complement of radio stations but no daily newspaper. The effectiveness of these new rules was stayed pending appeal. In June 2004, a federal court of appeals issued a decision which upheld portions of the FCC decision adopting the rules, but concluded that the order failed to adequately support numerous aspects of those rules, including the specific numeric ownership limits adopted by the FCC. The court remanded the matter to the FCC for revision or further justification of the rules, retaining jurisdiction over the matter. The court has partially maintained its stay of the effectiveness of those rules, particularly as they relate to television. The rules are now largely in effect as they relate to radio. The Supreme Court has declined to review the matter at this time, and the FCC must review the matter and issue a revised order. We cannot predict whether, how or when the new rules will be modified, ultimately implemented as modified, or repealed in their entirety. The new multiple ownership rules could limit our ability to acquire additional television stations in existing markets that we serve. Legislation went into effect in January 2004 that permits a single entity to own television stations serving up to 39% of U.S. television households, an increase over the previous 35% cap. Large broadcast groups may take advantage of this law to expand further their ownership interests on a national basis. 29 The restrictions on foreign ownership may limit foreign investment in us or our ability to successfully sell our business. The Communications Act limits the extent of non-U.S. ownership of companies that own U.S. broadcast stations. Under this restriction, a U.S. broadcast company such as ours may have no more than 25% non-U.S. ownership (by vote and by equity). These restrictions limit our ability to attract foreign investment in us and may impact our ability to successfully sell our business if we were to ever determine that such actions are in the best interests of our company and stockholders. Failure to observe rules and policies regarding the content of programming may adversely affect our business. Stations must pay regulatory and application fees and follow various FCC rules that regulate, among other things: • political advertising; • children’s programming; • the broadcast of obscene or indecent programming; • sponsorship identification; and • technical operations. The FCC requires licensees to present programming that is responsive to community problems, needs and interests. In addition, FCC rules require television stations to serve the educational and informational needs of children 16 years old and younger through the stations’ own programming as well as through other means. FCC rules also limit the amount of commercial matter that a television station may broadcast during programming directed primarily at children 12 years old and younger. The FCC requires television broadcasters to maintain certain records and/or file periodic reports with the FCC to document their compliance with the foregoing obligations. Failure to observe these or other rules and policies can result in the imposition of various sanctions, including monetary forfeitures, the grant of short, less than the maximum, renewal terms, or for particularly egregious violations, the denial of a license renewal application or the revocation of a license. Because our television stations rely on “must carry” rights to obtain cable carriage, new laws or regulations that eliminate or limit the scope of these rights or failures could significantly reduce our ability to obtain cable carriage and therefore reduce our revenues. Pursuant to the “must carry” provisions of the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, television broadcast stations may elect to require that a cable operator carry its signal if the cable operator is located in the same market as the broadcast station. However, in such cases the broadcast station cannot demand compensation from the cable operator. Such mandatory carriage is commonly referred to as “must-carry.” The future of “must carry” rights is uncertain, especially as they relate to the carriage of digital television. Under the current FCC rules, must-carry rights extend to digital television signals only in limited circumstances. While proposed legislation to broaden such rights has been proposed, we cannot predict whether such legislation will be adopted or the details of any legislation that may be adopted. Our full-power television stations often rely on “must-carry” rights to obtain cable carriage on specific cable systems. New laws or regulations that eliminate or limit the scope of these cable carriage rights could significantly reduce our ability to obtain cable carriage, which would reduce our ability to distribute our programming and consequently our ability to generate revenues from advertising. In addition, a number of entities have commenced operation, or announced plans to commence operation of internet protocol video systems, using digital subscriber line (“DSL”), fiber optic to the home (“FTTH”) and other distribution technologies. The issue of whether those services are subject to the existing cable television regulations, including must-carry obligations, has not been resolved. There are proposals in Congress and at the FCC to resolve this issue. We cannot predict whether must-carry rights will cover such Internet Protocol Television (“IPTV”) systems. In the event IPTV systems gain a significant share of the video distribution marketplace, and new laws and regulations fail to provide adequate must-carry rights, our ability to distribute our programming to the maximum number of potential viewers will be significantly reduced and consequently our revenue potential will be significantly reduced. 30 Our use of local marketing agreements and joint sales agreements may result in uncertainty regarding scheduled programming and/or revenue from the sale of advertising. We have, from time to time, entered into local marketing agreements, generally in connection with pending station acquisitions which allow us to provide programming and other services to a station that we have agreed to acquire before we receive all applicable FCC and other governmental approvals. FCC rules generally permit local marketing agreements if the station licensee retains ultimate responsibility for and control of the applicable station, including finances, personnel, programming and compliance with the FCC’s rules and policies. We cannot be sure that we will be able to air all of our scheduled programming on a station with which we may have a local marketing agreement or that we would receive the revenue from the sale of advertising for such programming. We have, from time to time, entered into joint sales agreements, which allow us to sell advertising time on another station. The FCC’s New Rules make joint sales agreements for radio stations an attributable ownership interest if the selling station is located in the same market and sells more than 15% of the other station’s weekly advertising time. The FCC recently initiated a new rulemaking proceeding that could result in rules which make joint sales agreements for television an attributable ownership interest to the same extent that radio joint sales agreements are an attributable ownership interest. The FCC proceeding could result in the adoption of rules which would limit our opportunities to enter into joint sales agreements with other television stations in a market where we already own one or more television stations, and that could adversely affect our revenue from advertising. The industry-wide mandatory conversion to digital television has required us, and will continue to require us, to make significant capital expenditures without assurance that we will remain competitive with other developing technologies. FCC regulations required all commercial television stations in the United States to commence digital operations on a schedule determined by the FCC and Congress, in addition to continuing their analog operations. Digital transmissions were initially permitted to be low-power, but full-power transmission was required by July 1, 2005 for stations affiliated with the four largest networks (ABC, CBS, NBC and Fox) in the top one hundred markets and is required by July 1, 2006 for all other stations. We have already constructed full power digital television facilities for six of our stations in the Cheyenne, Wyoming, Amarillo, Texas, Salt Lake City, Utah, Eugene, Oregon, Montgomery, Alabama and Little Rock, Arkansas markets. We have made significant capital expenditures in order to comply with the FCC’s digital television requirements. We will be required to convert an additional fifteen stations into full power digital television stations by February 17, 2009. We expect to spend approximately $1,300,000 on this process. Another major issue surrounding the implementation of digital television is the scope of a local cable television system’s obligation to carry the signals of local broadcast television stations. On February 10, 2005, the FCC decided that a cable television system is only obligated under the Communications Act to carry a television station’s “primary video” signal and, accordingly, that a cable television system does not have to carry the television station’s digital signal as well as its analog signal (but must carry the digital signal if the station does not have an analog signal). The new digital technology will enable a television station to broadcast four or more video streams of programming to the public, but the FCC said that the cable television system only has an obligation to carry one of those signals (the “primary video” signal) and not all of them, thus rejecting the broadcasters’ request for the FCC to impose a “multicasting” obligation on cable television systems. In addition, the FCC has not yet promulgated rules regarding the obligation of direct broadcast satellite providers to carry the digital signal of a local broadcast station. The FCC decisions could limit the reach of our television stations’ digital programming and, to that extent, could have an adverse impact on the revenue we derive from station operations. 31 If direct broadcast satellite companies do not carry the stations that we own and operate or provide services to, we could lose audience share and revenue. The Satellite Home Viewer Extension and Reauthorization Act allows direct broadcast satellite television companies to continue to transmit local broadcast television signals to subscribers in local markets provided that they offer to carry all local stations in that market. However, satellite providers have limited satellite capacity to deliver local station signals in local markets. Satellite providers may choose not to carry local stations in any of our markets. In those markets in which the satellite providers do not carry local station signals, subscribers to those satellite services are unable to view local stations without making further arrangements, such as installing antennas and switches. A principal component of the new regulation requires satellite carriers to carry the analog signals of all local television stations in a market if they carry one. We have taken advantage of that regulation to elect carriage of our stations on satellite systems in markets in which local-into-local carriage is provided, however, this has been a time consuming process to provide the local television broadcast signal to certain of these markets. Furthermore, when direct broadcast satellite companies do carry local television stations in a market, they are permitted to charge subscribers extra for such service. Some subscribers may choose not to pay extra to receive local television stations. In the event subscribers to satellite services do not receive the stations that we own and operate or provide services to, we could lose audience share which would adversely affect our revenue. Unlike the statutory regulations governing cable carriage of qualified full power television stations, the direct broadcast satellite television companies (i.e., DirecTV and Dish Network) have a choice as to whether or not to provide local television channels in a given television market However, once they decide to carry one local signal, they must carry all the qualified television stations (i.e., local-into-local service) in that market. We have filed carriage elections against the satellite companies for all of our qualified television stations in which local-into-local delivery is being provided. We have been delayed in certain instances in being carried, however, as we have to provide a good quality signal to a designated local receive facility in a given market, which is often in a building or site controlled by a third party. Therefore additional negotiations are needed to deliver our signal to this facility in a manner accepted and approved by the FCC, including but not limited to delivery via microwave, satellite or fiber. Our substantial indebtedness may negatively impact our ability to implement our business plan. As indicated below, the Company has a significant amount of indebtedness relative to our equity. As of December 31, 2007 (In thousands) Total Current Assets $ 25,287,371 Total Current Liabilities $ 83,988,265 Total Long-term Liabilities $ 13,673,536 Our substantial indebtedness may negatively impact our ability to implement our business plan. For example, it could: • limit our ability to fund future working capital and capital expenditures; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • subject us to interest rate risk in connection with any potential future refinancing of our debt; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; • increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; and • require us to restructure or refinance our debt, sell debt or equity securities, or sell assets, possibly on unfavorable terms in order to meet payment obligations. 32 In addition, our existing credit facility contains various financial and operational covenants, both affirmative and negative. The financial covenants include limitations on capital expenditures, restricted payments, minimum revenues and EBITDA and minimum availability. The affirmative covenants include provisions relative to preservation of assets, compliance with laws, maintaining insurance, payment of taxes, notice of proceedings, defaults or adverse changes, timely and accurate financial reporting, inspection rights, maintenance of a GAAP accounting system, renewal of licenses and compliance with environmental laws. The negative covenants include provisions and limitations concerning indebtedness, liens, disposition of assets, fundamental changes, and conditions to acquisitions, sale and leaseback of assets, investments, change in business, accounts receivable, transactions with affiliates, amendment of certain agreements, ERISA, margin stock, negative pledges and Local Marketing Agreements. Violation of any covenant language could adversely affect our ability to draw down or incur additional indebtedness when we otherwise believe it is advisable to do so. Additionally, any violation of covenant language, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the indebtedness. Failure of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting could harm our business and financial results. The Company is obligated to establish and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting in accordance with GAAP. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the Company’s transactions and dispositions of assets, providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary for preparation of the financial statements in accordance with GAAP, providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures of the Company are made only in accordance with management authorization, and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements would be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The Company’s growth of the RTN and entry into new markets and acquisitions of new stations, if any, will place significant additional pressure on our system of internal control over financial reporting. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud, which in turn would harm our business and financial results. An existing lawsuit against the Company and the members of the Company’s board of directors could distract the Company from their operational responsibilities. The Company and each member of the Company board of directors have been named in a lawsuit filed by a shareholder of pre-merger EBC in the circuit court of Pulaski County, Arkansas on June 14, 2006. The lawsuit was filed as a class action, meaning that the plaintiff, Mr. Max Bobbitt, seeks to represent all shareholders in the class, provided the class is certified by the court. Mr. Bobbitt owns 115,000 shares of Class A common stock, and thus represents less than 5% of any class of the Company equity. As a result of the merger between EBC and the Company, pursuant to which EBC merged into the Company, the Company, which was renamed Equity Media Holdings Corporation, is a party to the lawsuit. The lawsuit contains both a class action component and derivative claims. The class action claims allege various deficiencies in EBC’s proxy used to inform its shareholders of the special meeting to consider the merger. The Company views the lawsuit as baseless and will continue to vigorously defend the matter. During the course of this litigation it is possible that members of the Company’s senior management and members of the board of directors may have to devote significant time and effort to the resolution of such litigation adversely impacting their ability to properly attend to the operations of the combined company. It is also possible that any judgment or settlement may adversely affect the financial position of the combined company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 33 ITEM 