ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our Class A common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this report, including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this report, before deciding whether to invest in shares of our Class A common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have a history of cumulative losses and we do not expect to be profitable for the foreseeable future. We have incurred significant losses in each period since our inception in 2005. These losses and our accumulated deficit reflect the substantial investments we made to acquire new customers and develop our applications. We expect our operating expenses to increase in the future due to anticipated increases in sales and marketing expenses, research and development expenses, operations costs and general and administrative costs, and therefore we expect our losses to continue for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, to the extent we are successful in increasing our customer base, we will also incur increased losses because costs associated with acquiring customers are generally incurred up front, while subscription revenues are generally recognized ratably over the terms of the agreements, which are typically three years. You should not consider our recent growth in revenues as indicative of our future performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability in the future, nor that, if we do become profitable, we will sustain profitability. We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to predict our future operating results. We were incorporated in 2005 and introduced our first application in 2006. As a result of our limited operating history, our ability to forecast our future operating results is limited and subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to plan for and model future growth. We have encountered and will encounter risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, such as the risks and uncertainties described herein. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties (which we use to plan our business) are incorrect or change due to changes in our markets, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our operating and financial results could differ materially from our expectations and our business could suffer. If our security measures are breached or unauthorized access to customer data is otherwise obtained, our applications may be perceived as not being secure, customers may reduce the use of or stop using our applications and we may incur significant liabilities. Our applications involve the storage and transmission of our customers’ proprietary information, including personal or identifying information regarding their employees, customers and suppliers, as well as their finance and payroll data. As a result, unauthorized access or security breaches could result in the loss of information, litigation, indemnity obligations and other liabilities. While we have security measures in place to protect customer information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, if these measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and someone obtains unauthorized access to our customers’ data, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liabilities. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any or all of these issues could negatively affect our ability to attract new customers, cause existing customers to elect to terminate or not renew their subscriptions, 11 Table of Contents result in reputational damage, cause us to issue credits or refunds to our customers, or results in lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liabilities, which could adversely affect our operating results. The markets in which we participate are intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be adversely affected. The markets for HCM and financial management applications are highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry for some applications or services. Our primary competitors are Oracle and SAP, well-established providers of HCM and financial management applications, which have long-standing relationships with many customers. Some customers may be hesitant to adopt cloud applications such as ours and prefer to upgrade the more familiar applications offered by these vendors that are deployed on-premise. Oracle and SAP are larger and have greater name recognition, much longer operating histories, larger marketing budgets and significantly greater resources than we do. These vendors, as well as other competitors, could offer HCM and financial management applications on a standalone basis at a low price or bundled as part of a larger product sale. In order to take advantage of customer demand for cloud applications, legacy vendors are expanding their cloud applications through acquisitions and organic development. For example, Oracle acquired Taleo Corporation, and SAP acquired SuccessFactors and Ariba, Inc. Legacy vendors may also seek to partner with other leading cloud providers. We also face competition from custom-built software vendors and from vendors of specific applications, some of which offer cloud-based solutions. These vendors include, without limitation: The Ultimate Software Group, Inc., Automatic Data Processing and Lawson, Inc, which was acquired by an affiliate of Infor Global Solutions. We also face competition from cloud-based vendors including providers of applications for HCM and payroll services such as Ceridian; providers of cloud-based expense management applications such as Concur Technologies, Inc.; and providers of financial management applications such as NetSuite, Inc. We may also face competition from a variety of vendors of cloud-based and on-premise software applications that address only a portion of one of our applications. In addition, other companies that provide cloud applications in different target markets, such as Salesforce.com and NetSuite, may develop applications or acquire companies that operate in our target markets, and some potential customers may elect to develop their own internal applications. With the introduction of new technologies and market entrants, we expect this competition to intensify in the future. Many of our competitors are able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services. Furthermore, our current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources and the ability to initiate or withstand substantial price competition. In addition, many of our competitors have established marketing relationships, access to larger customer bases and major distribution agreements with consultants, system integrators and resellers. Our competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their product offerings or resources. If our competitors’ products, services or technologies become more accepted than our applications, if they are successful in bringing their products or services to market earlier than ours, or if their products or services are more technologically capable than ours, then our revenues could be adversely affected. In addition, some of our competitors may offer their products and services at a lower price. If we are unable to achieve our target pricing levels, our operating results would be negatively affected. Pricing pressures and increased competition could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses or a failure to maintain or improve our competitive market position, any of which could adversely affect our business. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of service or adequately address competitive challenges. We have recently experienced a period of rapid growth in our headcount and operations. In particular, we grew from approximately 300 employees as of December 31, 2008 to more than 1,750 employees as of January 31, 2013, and have also significantly increased the size of our customer base. We anticipate that we will significantly expand our operations and headcount in the near term. This growth has placed, and future growth will place, a significant strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Our 12 Table of Contents success will depend in part on our ability to manage this growth effectively. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. Failure to effectively manage growth could result in difficulty or delays in deploying customers, declines in quality or customer satisfaction, increases in costs, difficulties in introducing new features or other operational difficulties, and any of these difficulties could adversely impact our business performance and results of operations. If the market for enterprise cloud computing develops more slowly than we expect or declines, our business could be adversely affected. The enterprise cloud computing market is not as mature as the market for on-premise enterprise software, and it is uncertain whether cloud computing will achieve and sustain high levels of customer demand and market acceptance. Our success will depend to a substantial extent on the widespread adoption of cloud computing in general, and of HCM and financial management services in particular. Many enterprises have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate traditional enterprise software into their businesses, and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate to cloud computing. It is difficult to predict customer adoption rates and demand for our applications, the future growth rate and size of the cloud computing market or the entry of competitive applications. The expansion of the cloud computing market depends on a number of factors, including the cost, performance, and perceived value associated with cloud computing, as well as the ability of cloud computing companies to address security and privacy concerns. If other cloud computing providers experience security incidents, loss of customer data, disruptions in delivery or other problems, the market for cloud computing applications as a whole, including our applications, may be negatively affected. If cloud computing does not achieve widespread adoption, or there is a reduction in demand for cloud computing caused by a lack of customer acceptance, technological challenges, weakening economic conditions, security or privacy concerns, competing technologies and products, decreases in corporate spending or otherwise, it could result in decreased revenues and our business could be adversely affected. To date, we have derived a substantial majority of our subscription revenues from our HCM application. Our efforts to increase use of our HCM application and our other applications may not succeed, and may reduce our revenue growth rate. To date we have derived a substantial majority of our subscription revenues from our HCM application. Any factor adversely affecting sales of this application, including application release cycles, market acceptance, product competition, performance and reliability, reputation, price competition, and economic and market conditions, could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our participation in the markets for our payroll, financial management, time tracking, procurement and employee expense management applications is relatively new, and it is uncertain whether these areas will ever result in significant revenues for us. Further, the introduction of new applications beyond these markets may not be successful. If we are not able to provide successful enhancements, new features and modifications, our business could be adversely affected. If we are unable to provide enhancements and new features for our existing applications or new applications that achieve market acceptance or that keep pace with rapid technological developments, our business could be adversely affected. For example, we are focused on enhancing the features and functionality of our non-HCM applications to enhance their utility to larger customers with complex, dynamic and global operations. The success of enhancements, new features and applications depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the enhancements or new features or applications. Failure in this regard may significantly impair our revenue growth. In addition, because our applications are designed to operate on a variety of systems, we will need to continuously modify and enhance our applications to keep pace with changes in Internet-related hardware, iOS and other software, communication, browser and database technologies. We may not be successful in either developing these modifications and enhancements or in 13 Table of Contents bringing them to market in a timely fashion. Furthermore, uncertainties about the timing and nature of new network platforms or technologies, or modifications to existing platforms or technologies, could increase our research and development expenses. Any failure of our applications to operate effectively with future network platforms and technologies could reduce the demand for our applications, result in customer dissatisfaction and adversely affect our business. Large customers often demand more configuration and integration services, or customized features and functions that we do not offer, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Large customers may demand more configuration and integration services, which increase our upfront investment in sales and deployment efforts, with no guarantee that these customers will increase the scope of their subscription. As a result of these factors, we must devote a significant amount of sales support and professional services resources to individual customers, increasing the cost and time required to complete sales. Additionally, our applications do not currently permit customers to add new data fields and functions or to modify our code. If prospective customers require customized features or functions that we do not offer, and that would be difficult for them to deploy themselves, then the market for our applications will be more limited and our business could suffer. Because we recognize subscription revenues over the term of the contract, downturns or upturns in new sales will not be immediately reflected in our operating results and may be difficult to discern. We generally recognize subscription revenues from customers ratably over the terms of their contracts, which are typically three years. As a result, most of the subscription revenues we report in each quarter is derived from the recognition of unearned revenue relating to subscriptions entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any single quarter will likely have a minor impact on our revenue results for that quarter. However, such a decline will negatively affect our revenues in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our applications, and potential changes in our pricing policies or rate of renewals, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. We may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect the changes in revenues. In addition, a significant majority of our costs are expensed as incurred, while revenues are recognized over the life of the customer agreement. As a result, increased growth in the number of our customers could result in our recognition of more costs than revenues in the earlier periods of the terms of our agreements. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenues through additional sales in any period, as revenues from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly and may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. Our quarterly results of operations, including the levels of our revenues, gross margin, profitability, cash flow and unearned revenue, may vary significantly in the future and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. Accordingly, the results of any one quarter should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, and as a result, may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. Fluctuation in quarterly results may negatively impact the value of our common stock. Factors that may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial results include, without limitation, those listed below: • our ability to attract new customers; • the addition or loss of large customers, including through acquisitions or consolidations; • the timing of recognition of revenues; 14 Table of Contents • the amount and timing of operating expenses related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; • network outages or security breaches; • general economic, industry and market conditions; • customer renewal rates; • increases or decreases in the number of elements of our services or pricing changes upon any renewals of customer agreements; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • the mix of applications sold during a period; • seasonal variations in sales of our applications, which has historically been highest in the fourth quarter of a calendar year; • the timing and success of new application and service introductions by us or our competitors or any other change in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors, customers or strategic partners; and • the timing of expenses related to the development or acquisition of technologies or businesses and potential future charges for impairment of goodwill from acquired companies. We depend on data centers operated by third parties and any disruption in the operation of these facilities could adversely affect our business. We host our applications and serve all of our customers from data centers located in Ashburn, Virginia; Lithia Springs, Georgia; Portland, Oregon; Dublin, Ireland; and Amsterdam, the Netherlands. While we control and have access to our servers and all of the components of our network that are located in our external data centers, we do not control the operation of these facilities. The owners of our data center facilities have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to renew these agreements on commercially reasonable terms, or if one of our data center operators is acquired, we may be required to transfer our servers and other infrastructure to new data center facilities, and we may incur significant costs and possible service interruption in connection with doing so. Problems faced by our third-party data center locations, with the telecommunications network providers with whom we or they contract, or with the systems by which our telecommunications providers allocate capacity among their customers, including us, could adversely affect the experience of our customers. Our third-party data centers operators could decide to close their facilities without adequate notice. In addition, any financial difficulties, such as bankruptcy, faced by our third-party data centers operators or any of the service providers with whom we or they contract may have negative effects on our business, the nature and extent of which are difficult to predict. Additionally, if our data centers are unable to keep up with our growing needs for capacity, this could have an adverse effect on our business. Any changes in third-party service levels at our data centers or any errors, defects, disruptions, or other performance problems with our applications could adversely affect our reputation and may damage our customers’ stored files or result in lengthy interruptions in our services. Interruptions in our services might reduce our revenues, cause us to issue refunds to customers for prepaid and unused subscription services, subject us to potential liability, or adversely affect our renewal rates. Furthermore, our financial management application is essential to our customers’ financial projections, reporting and compliance programs. Any interruption in our service may affect the availability, accuracy or timeliness of these programs and could damage our reputation, cause our customers to terminate their use of our application, require us to indemnify our customers against certain losses and prevent us from gaining additional business from current or future customers. 15 Table of Contents Privacy concerns and laws or other domestic or foreign regulations may reduce the effectiveness of our applications and adversely affect our business. Our customers can use our applications to collect, use and store personal or identifying information regarding their employees, customers and suppliers. Federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted, are considering adopting, or may adopt laws and regulations regarding the collection, use, storage and disclosure of personal information obtained from consumers and individuals. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such laws and regulations that are applicable to the businesses of our customers may limit the use and adoption of our applications and reduce overall demand, or lead to significant fines, penalties or liabilities for any noncompliance with such privacy laws. Furthermore, privacy concerns may cause our customers’ workers to resist providing the personal data necessary to allow our customers to use our applications effectively. Even the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may inhibit market adoption of our applications in certain industries. All of these domestic and international legislative and regulatory initiatives may adversely affect our customers’ ability to process, handle, store, use and transmit demographic and personal information from their employees, customers and suppliers, which could reduce demand for our applications. The European Union and many countries in Europe have stringent privacy laws and regulations, which may impact our ability to profitably operate in certain European countries. In addition to government activity, privacy advocacy groups and the technology and other industries are considering various new, additional or different self-regulatory standards that may place additional burdens on us. If the processing of personal information were to be curtailed in this manner, our software applications would be less effective, which may reduce demand for our applications and adversely affect our business. Because we sell applications to manage complex operating environments of large customers, we encounter long sales cycles, which could adversely affect our operating results in a given period. Our ability to increase revenues and maintain profitability depends, in large part, on widespread acceptance of our applications by large businesses and other organizations. As we target our sales efforts at these customers, we face greater costs, longer sales cycles and less predictability in completing some of our sales. In the large enterprise market, the customer’s decision to use our applications may be an enterprise-wide decision and, therefore, these types of sales require us to provide greater levels of education regarding the use and benefits of our applications. In addition, because we are a relatively new company with a limited operating history, our target customers may prefer to purchase applications that are critical to their business from one of our larger, more established competitors. Our typical sales cycles are six to nine months, and we expect that this lengthy sales cycle may continue or increase as customers adopt our applications beyond HCM. Longer sales cycles could cause our operating and financial results to suffer in a given period. Our customers’ deployment timeframes vary based on many factors including the number and type of applications being deployed, the complexity and scale of the customers’ businesses, the configuration requirements, the number of integrations with other systems and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Many Workday customers are in production with our applications within nine months of project initiation. Although our contracts are generally non-cancelable by the customer, at any given time, a significant percentage of our customers may be still in the process of deploying our applications, particularly during periods of rapid growth. Our business could be adversely affected if our customers are not satisfied with the deployment services provided by us or our partners. Our business depends on our ability to satisfy our customers, both with respect to our application offerings and the professional services that are performed to help our customers use features and functions that address 16 Table of Contents their business needs. Professional services may be performed by our own staff, by a third party, or by a combination of the two. Our strategy is to work with third parties to increase the breadth of capability and depth of capacity for delivery of these services to our customers, and third parties provide a majority of our deployment services. If a customer is not satisfied with the quality of work performed by us or a third party or with the type of professional services or applications delivered, then we could incur additional costs to address the situation, the profitability of that work might be impaired, and the customer’s dissatisfaction with our services could damage our ability to expand the number of applications subscribed to by that customer. In addition, negative publicity related to our customer relationships, regardless of its accuracy, may further damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new business with current and prospective customers. We do not have an adequate history with our subscription or pricing models to accurately predict the long-term rate of customer subscription renewals or adoption, or the impact these renewals and adoption will have on our revenues or operating results. We have limited experience with respect to determining the optimal prices for our applications. As the markets for our applications mature, or as new competitors introduce new products or services that compete with ours, we may be unable to attract new customers at the same price or based on the same pricing model as we have used historically. Moreover, large customers, which are the focus of our sales efforts, may demand greater price concessions. As a result, in the future we may be required to reduce our prices, which could adversely affect our revenues, gross margin, profitability, financial position and cash flow. In addition, our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our applications after the expiration of the initial subscription period. Our customers may renew for fewer elements of our applications or on different pricing terms. We have limited historical data with respect to rates of customer subscription renewals, so we cannot accurately predict customer renewal rates. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their dissatisfaction with our pricing or our applications and their ability to continue their operations and spending levels. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions for our applications on similar pricing terms, our revenues may decline and our business could suffer. In addition, over time the average term of our contracts could change based on renewal rates or for other reasons. Our future success also depends in part on our ability to sell additional features or enhanced elements of our applications to our current customers. This may require increasingly costly sales efforts that are targeted at senior management. If these efforts are not successful, our business may suffer. The loss of one or more of our key customers, or a failure to renew our subscription agreements with one or more of our key customers, could negatively affect our ability to market our applications. We rely on our reputation and recommendations from key customers in order to promote subscriptions to our applications. The loss of any of our key customers, or a failure of some of them to renew, could have a significant impact on our revenues, reputation and our ability to obtain new customers. In addition, acquisitions of our customers could lead to cancellation of our contracts with those customers or by the acquiring companies, thereby reducing the number of our existing and potential customers. Acquisitions of our partners could also result in a decrease in the number of our current and potential customers, as our partners may no longer facilitate the adoption of our applications. We typically provide service level commitments under our customer contracts. If we fail to meet these contractual commitments, we could be obligated to provide credits or refunds for prepaid amounts related to unused subscription services or face contract terminations, which could adversely affect our revenues. Our customer agreements typically provide service level commitments on a monthly basis. If we are unable to meet the stated service level commitments or suffer extended periods of unavailability for our applications, we may be contractually obligated to provide these customers with service credits, refunds for prepaid amounts 17 Table of Contents related to unused subscription services, or we could face contract terminations. Our revenues could be significantly affected if we suffer unscheduled downtime that exceeds the allowed downtimes under our agreements with our customers. Any extended service outages could adversely affect our reputation, revenues and operating results. Any failure to offer high-quality technical support services may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and our financial results. Once our applications are deployed, our customers depend on our support organization to resolve technical issues relating to our applications. We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services. We also may be unable to modify the format of our support services to compete with changes in support services provided by our competitors. Increased customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, our sales process is highly dependent on our applications and business reputation and on positive recommendations from our existing customers. Any failure to maintain high-quality technical support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality support, could adversely affect our reputation, our ability to sell our applications to existing and prospective customers, and our business, operating results and financial position. Sales to customers outside the United States or with international operations expose us to risks inherent in international sales. A key element of our growth strategy is to expand our international operations and develop a worldwide customer base. To date, we have not realized a substantial portion of our revenues from customers headquartered outside the United States. Operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic and political risks that are different from those in the United States. Because of our limited experience with international operations, our international expansion efforts may not be successful in creating demand for our applications outside of the United States or in effectively selling subscriptions to our applications in all of the international markets we enter. In addition, we will face risks in doing business internationally that could adversely affect our business, including: • the need to localize and adapt our application for specific countries, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses; • data privacy laws which require that customer data be stored and processed in a designated territory; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • different pricing environments, longer sales cycles and longer accounts receivable payment cycles and collections issues; • new and different sources of competition; • weaker protection for intellectual property and other legal rights than in the United States and practical difficulties in enforcing intellectual property and other rights outside of the United States; • laws and business practices favoring local competitors; • compliance challenges related to the complexity of multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including employment, tax, privacy and data protection laws and regulations; • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; • restrictions on the transfer of funds; • adverse tax consequences; and • unstable regional and economic political conditions. 18 Table of Contents Today, our international contracts are only occasionally denominated in local currencies. However, the majority of our local costs are denominated in local currencies. We anticipate that over time, an increasing portion of our international contracts may be denominated in local currencies. Therefore, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may impact our operating results when translated into U.S. dollars. We do not currently engage in currency hedging activities to limit the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. If we fail to manage our technical operations infrastructure, our existing customers may experience service outages and our new customers may experience delays in the deployment of our applications. We have experienced significant growth in the number of users, transactions and data that our operations infrastructure supports. We seek to maintain sufficient excess capacity in our operations infrastructure to meet the needs of all of our customers. We also seek to maintain excess capacity to facilitate the rapid provision of new customer deployments and the expansion of existing customer deployments. In addition, we need to properly manage our technological operations infrastructure in order to support version control, changes in hardware and software parameters and the evolution of our applications. However, the provision of new hosting infrastructure requires significant lead time. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, website disruptions, outages and other performance problems. These problems may be caused by a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, viruses, security attacks, fraud, spikes in customer usage and denial of service issues. In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. If we do not accurately predict our infrastructure requirements, our existing customers may experience service outages that may subject us to financial penalties, financial liabilities and customer losses. If our operations infrastructure fails to keep pace with increased sales, customers may experience delays as we seek to obtain additional capacity, which could adversely affect our reputation and adversely affect our revenues. Failure to adequately expand our direct sales force will impede our growth. We will need to continue to expand and optimize our sales infrastructure in order to grow our customer base and our business. We plan to continue to expand our direct sales force, both domestically and internationally. Identifying and recruiting qualified personnel and training them in the use of our software requires significant time, expense and attention. It can take six months or longer before our sales representatives are fully-trained and productive. Our business may be adversely affected if our efforts to expand and train our direct sales force do not generate a corresponding increase in revenues. In particular, if we are unable to hire, develop and retain talented sales personnel or if new direct sales personnel are unable to achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time, we may not be able to realize the expected benefits of this investment or increase our revenues. If we fail to develop widespread brand awareness cost-effectively, our business may suffer. We believe that developing and maintaining widespread awareness of our brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our applications and attracting new customers. Brand promotion activities may not generate customer awareness or increase revenues, and even if they do, any increase in revenues may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or incur substantial expenses, we may fail to attract or retain customers necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, or to achieve the widespread brand awareness that is critical for broad customer adoption of our applications. Our growth depends in part on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties. In order to grow our business, we anticipate that we will continue to depend on relationships with third parties, such as deployment partners, and technology and content providers. Identifying partners, and negotiating and documenting relationships with them, requires significant time and resources. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to third parties to favor their products or services or to prevent or reduce 19 Table of Contents subscriptions to our services. In addition, acquisitions of our partners by our competitors could result in a decrease in the number of our current and potential customers, as our partners may no longer facilitate the adoption of our applications by potential customers. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenues could be impaired and our operating results may suffer. Even if we are successful, we cannot assure you that these relationships will result in increased customer usage of our applications or increased revenues. If our applications fail to perform properly, our reputation could be adversely affected, our market share could decline and we could be subject to liability claims. Our applications are inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors. Any defects in functionality or that cause interruptions in the availability of our applications could result in: • loss or delayed market acceptance and sales; • breach of warranty claims; • sales credits or refunds for prepaid amounts related to unused subscription services; • loss of customers; • diversion of development and customer service resources; and • injury to our reputation. The costs incurred in correcting any material defects or errors might be substantial and could adversely affect our operating results. Because of the large amount of data that we collect and manage, it is possible that hardware failures or errors in our systems could result in data loss or corruption, or cause the information that we collect to be incomplete or contain inaccuracies that our customers regard as significant. Furthermore, the availability or performance of our applications could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including customers’ inability to access the Internet, the failure of our network or software systems, security breaches or variability in user traffic for our services. We may be required to issue credits or refunds for prepaid amounts related to unused services or otherwise be liable to our customers for damages they may incur resulting from certain of these events. For example, our customers access our applications through their Internet service providers. If a service provider fails to provide sufficient capacity to support our applications or otherwise experiences service outages, such failure could interrupt our customers’ access to our applications, adversely affect their perception of our applications’ reliability and reduce our revenues. In addition to potential liability, if we experience interruptions in the availability of our applications, our reputation could be adversely affected and we could lose customers. Our errors and omissions insurance may be inadequate or may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, our policy may not cover all claims made against us and defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert management’s attention. We depend on our senior management team and the loss of one or more key employees or an inability to attract and retain highly skilled employees could adversely affect our business. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our key executive officers. We also rely on our leadership team in the areas of research and development, marketing, sales, services and general and administrative functions, and on mission-critical individual contributors in research and development. From time to time, there may be changes in our executive management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives, which could disrupt our business. We do not have employment agreements with our executive 20 Table of Contents officers or other key personnel that require them to continue to work for us for any specified period and, therefore, they could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of one or more of our executive officers or key employees could have a serious adverse effect on our business. To execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially for engineers with high levels of experience in designing and developing software and Internet-related services and senior sales executives. We have, from time to time, experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. If we hire employees from competitors or other companies, their former employers may attempt to assert that these employees or Workday have breached their legal obligations, resulting in a diversion of our time and resources. In addition, job candidates and existing employees in the San Francisco Bay Area often consider the value of the stock awards they receive in connection with their employment. If the perceived value of our stock awards declines, it may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled employees. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be adversely affected. We may acquire other companies or technologies, which could divert our management’s attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders and otherwise disrupt our operations and adversely affect our operating results. We may in the future seek to acquire or invest in businesses, applications or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our applications, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. The pursuit of potential acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are consummated. We have limited experience in acquiring other businesses. If we acquire additional businesses, we may not be able to integrate the acquired personnel, operations and technologies successfully or effectively manage the combined business following the acquisition. We also may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business due to a number of factors, including: • inability to integrate or benefit from acquired technologies or services in a profitable manner; • unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisition; • incurrence of acquisition-related costs; • difficulty integrating the accounting systems, operations and personnel of the acquired business; • difficulties and additional expenses associated with supporting legacy products and hosting infrastructure of the acquired business; • difficulty converting the customers of the acquired business onto our applications and contract terms, including disparities in the revenues, licensing, support or professional services model of the acquired company; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • adverse effects to our existing business relationships with business partners and customers as a result of the acquisition; • the potential loss of key employees; • use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business; and • use of substantial portions of our available cash to consummate the acquisition. 21 Table of Contents In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of companies we acquire may be allocated to acquired goodwill and other intangible assets, which must be assessed for impairment at least annually. In the future, if our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our operating results based on this impairment assessment process, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if an acquired business fails to meet our expectations, our operating results, business and financial position may suffer. We may not be able to secure additional financing on favorable terms, or at all, to meet our future capital needs. We have funded our operations since inception primarily through equity financings, capital lease arrangements, and prepayments by customers. In the future, we may require additional capital to respond to business opportunities, challenges, acquisitions, or unforeseen circumstances and may determine to engage in equity or debt financings or enter into credit facilities for other reasons, and we may not be able to timely secure additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all. Any debt financing obtained by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. Adverse economic conditions may negatively impact our business. Our business depends on the overall demand for enterprise software and on the economic health of our current and prospective customers. The recent financial recession resulted in a significant weakening of the economy in the United States and Europe and of the global economy, more limited availability of credit, a reduction in business confidence and activity, and other difficulties that may affect one or more of the industries to which we sell our applications. In addition, there has been pressure to reduce government spending in the United States, and tax increases and spending cuts at the Federal level (the sequester) have gone into effect. This might reduce demand for our applications from organizations that receive funding from the U.S. government and could negatively affect the U.S. economy, which could further reduce demand for our applications. Further, the economies of countries in Europe have been experiencing weakness associated with high sovereign debt levels, weakness in the banking sector and uncertainty over the future of the Euro zone. We have operations in Ireland and current and potential new customers in Europe. If economic conditions in Europe and other key markets for our applications continue to remain uncertain or deteriorate further, many customers may delay or reduce their information technology spending. This could result in reductions in sales of our applications, longer sales cycles, reductions in subscription duration and value, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. Any of these events would likely have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial position. In addition, there can be no assurance that enterprise software spending levels will increase following any recovery. Our customers may fail to pay us in accordance with the terms of their agreements, necessitating action by us to compel payment. We typically enter into multiple year, non-cancelable arrangements with customers of our services. If customers fail to pay us under the terms of our agreements, we may be adversely affected both from the inability to collect amounts due and the cost of enforcing the terms of our contracts, including litigation. The risk of such negative effects increases with the term length of our customer arrangements. Furthermore, some of our 22 Table of Contents customers may seek bankruptcy protection or other similar relief and fail to pay amounts due to us, or pay those amounts more slowly, either of which could adversely affect our operating results, financial position and cash flow. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. Our corporate headquarters are located in Pleasanton, California and our data centers are located in Ashburn, Virginia; Lithia Springs, Georgia; Sacramento, California; Portland, Oregon; Dublin, Ireland; and Amsterdam, the Netherlands. The west coast of the United States contains active earthquake zones and the southeast is subject to seasonal hurricanes. Additionally, we rely on our network and third-party infrastructure and enterprise applications, internal technology systems and our website for our development, marketing, operational support, hosted services and sales activities. In the event of a major earthquake, hurricane or catastrophic event such as fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, cyber-attack, war or terrorist attack, we may be unable to continue our operations and may endure system interruptions, reputational harm, delays in our application development, lengthy interruptions in our services, breaches of data security and loss of critical data, all of which could have an adverse effect on our future operating results. Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights could impair our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. Our success and ability to compete depend in part upon our intellectual property. We currently have nine issued patents. We primarily rely on copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may be inadequate. In order to protect our intellectual property rights, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect these rights. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. Our failure to secure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could seriously adversely affect our brand and adversely impact our business. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Our success depends upon our not infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. Our competitors, as well as a number of other entities and individuals, may own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our industry. From time to time, third parties may claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. In the future, others may claim that our applications and underlying technology infringe or violate their intellectual property rights. However, we may be unaware of the intellectual property rights that others may claim cover some or all of our technology or services. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, prevent us from offering our services, or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. We may also be obligated to indemnify our customers or business partners or pay substantial settlement costs, including royalty payments, in connection with any such claim or litigation and to obtain licenses, modify applications, or refund fees, which could be costly. Even if we were to prevail in such a dispute, any litigation regarding our intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. 23 Table of Contents Some of our applications utilize open source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business. Some of our applications include software covered by open source licenses, which may include, by way of example, GNU General Public License and the Apache License. The terms of various open source licenses have not been interpreted by United States courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to market our applications. By the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software, and to make our proprietary software available under open source licenses, if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner. In the event that portions of our proprietary software are determined to be subject to an open source license, we could be required to publicly release the affected portions of our source code, re-engineer all or a portion of our technologies, or otherwise be limited in the licensing of our technologies, each of which could reduce or eliminate the value of our technologies and services. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of the software. Many of the risks associated with usage of open source software cannot be eliminated, and could negatively affect our business. We employ third-party licensed software for use in or with our applications, and the inability to maintain these licenses or errors in the software we license could result in increased costs, or reduced service levels, which would adversely affect our business. Our applications incorporate certain third-party software obtained under licenses from other companies. We anticipate that we will continue to rely on such third-party software and development tools from third parties in the future. Although we believe that there are commercially reasonable alternatives to the third-party software we currently license, this may not always be the case, or it may be difficult or costly to replace. In addition, integration of the software used in our applications with new third-party software may require significant work and require substantial investment of our time and resources. Also, to the extent that our applications depend upon the successful operation of third-party software in conjunction with our software, any undetected errors or defects in this third-party software could prevent the deployment or impair the functionality of our applications, delay new application introductions, result in a failure of our applications and injure our reputation. Our use of additional or alternative third-party software would require us to enter into license agreements with third parties. Changes in laws and regulations related to the Internet or changes in the Internet infrastructure itself may diminish the demand for our applications, and could have a negative impact on our business. The future success of our business depends upon the continued use of the Internet as a primary medium for commerce, communication and business applications. Federal, state or foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws or regulations affecting the use of the Internet as a commercial medium. Changes in these laws or regulations could require us to modify our applications in order to comply with these changes. In addition, government agencies or private organizations may begin to impose taxes, fees or other charges for accessing the Internet or commerce conducted via the Internet. These laws or charges could limit the growth of Internet-related commerce or communications or generally, result in reductions in the demand for Internet-based applications such as ours. In addition, the use of the Internet as a business tool could be adversely affected due to delays in the development or adoption of new standards and protocols to handle increased demands of Internet activity, security, reliability, cost, ease of use, accessibility, and quality of service. The performance of the Internet and its acceptance as a business tool has been adversely affected by “viruses,” “worms” and similar malicious programs and the Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure. If the use of the Internet is adversely affected by these issues, demand for our applications could suffer. 24 Table of Contents We are obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal controls over financial reporting. We may not complete our analysis of our internal controls over financial reporting in a timely manner, or these internal controls may not be determined to be effective, which may adversely affect investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our Class A common stock may be negatively affected. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal controls over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal controls. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act) requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and, beginning with our annual report for the fiscal year ending January 31, 2014, provide a management report on the internal controls over financial reporting, which must be attested to by our independent registered public accounting firm to the extent we are no longer an “emerging growth company,” as defined by the Jumpstart Our Businesses Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act). If we have a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, we may not detect errors on a timely basis and our financial statements may be materially misstated. We are in the early stages of the costly and challenging process of compiling the system and processing documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404. We may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, if we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, if we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our Class A common stock could be negatively affected, and we could become subject to investigations by the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the SEC, or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management’s attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the Exchange Act), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, the listing requirements of the NYSE and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations has increased and will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly, and increase demand on our systems and resources. In particular, we expect to incur significant expenses and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which will increase when we are no longer an emerging growth company, as defined by the JOBS Act. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and, if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight may be required. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could harm our business and operating results. Although we have hired additional employees to comply with these requirements, we may need to hire more employees in the future, in particular accounting, financial and internal audit staff, which will increase our costs and expenses. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance 25 Table of Contents practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. In addition, our co-chief executive officers (co-CEOs) currently each receive a base salary of approximately $33,000. We could incur additional compensation costs in the event that we decide to pay them cash compensation closer to that of CEOs of other public software companies, which would increase our general and administrative expenses and could adversely affect our profitability. Additionally, in May 2012, we granted Mr. Duffield a stock option to purchase up to 300,000 shares of Class B common stock and Mr. Bhusri 1,000,000 restricted shares of Class B common stock. These awards and any future equity awards will also increase our compensation expenses. We may face increased costs for director and officer liability insurance, or be required to accept reduced coverage, in the future. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors and qualified executive officers. We are an emerging growth company and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our Class A common stock less attractive to investors. We are an emerging growth company. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we intend to take advantage of certain other exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies including, but not limited to, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We cannot predict if investors will find our Class A common stock less attractive because we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our Class A common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our Class A common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) the end of the fiscal year in which the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of July 31, (ii) the end of the fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenues of $1 billion or more during such fiscal year, (iii) the date on which we issue more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt in a three-year period, or (iv) January 31, 2018. We may not be able to utilize a significant portion of our net operating loss or research tax credit carryforwards, which could adversely affect our profitability. As of January 31, 2013, we had federal and state net operating loss carryforwards due to prior period losses, which if not utilized will begin to expire in 2025 and 2015 for federal and state purposes, respectively. We also have federal research tax credit carryforwards, which if not utilized will begin to expire in 2025. These net operating loss and research tax credit carryforwards could expire unused and be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities, which could adversely affect our profitability. In addition, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards or other tax attributes, such as research tax credits, in any taxable year may be limited if we experience an “ownership change.” A Section 382 “ownership change” generally occurs if one or more stockholders or groups of stockholders who own at least 5% of our stock increase their ownership by 26 Table of Contents more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period. Similar rules may apply under state tax laws. It is possible that an ownership change, or any future ownership change, could have a material effect on the use of our net operating loss carryforwards or other tax attributes, which could adversely affect our profitability. Adverse tax laws or regulations could be enacted or existing laws could be applied to us or our customers, which could increase the costs of our services and adversely impact our business. The application of federal, state, local and international tax laws to services provided electronically is evolving. New income, sales, use or other tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be enacted at any time (possibly with retroactive effect), and could be applied solely or disproportionately to services provided over the Internet. These enactments could adversely affect our sales activity due to the inherent cost increase the taxes would represent and ultimately result in a negative impact on our operating results and cash flows. In addition, existing tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be interpreted, changed, modified or applied adversely to us (possibly with retroactive effect), which could require us or our customers to pay additional tax amounts, as well as require us or our customers to pay fines or penalties and interest for past amounts. If we are unsuccessful in collecting such taxes from our customers, we could be held liable for such costs, thereby adversely impacting our operating results and cash flows. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC, and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock Our stock price has been volatile in the past and may be subject to volatility in the future. The trading price of our Class A common stock has been volatile historically, and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as: • overall performance of the equity markets; • fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us or in valuation metrics, such as our price to revenues ratio; • changes in the estimates of our operating results that we provide to the public, our failure to meet these projections or changes in recommendations by securities analysts that follow our Class A common stock; • announcements of technological innovations, new applications or enhancements to services, acquisitions, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; • disruptions in our services due to computer hardware, software or network problems; • announcements of customer additions and customer cancellations or delays in customer purchases; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • the economy as a whole, market conditions in our industry, and the industries of our customers; 27 Table of Contents • trading activity by a limited number of stockholders who together beneficially own a majority of our outstanding common stock; • the expiration of market standoff or contractual lock-up agreements, including the April 10, 2013 expiration of lock-up in connection with our initial public offering, subject to extension in certain circumstances (Lock-Up Expiration); • the size of our market float; and • our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies. Additionally, the stock markets have at times experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and might in the future affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations have, in some cases, been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Further, the trading prices of publicly traded shares of companies in our industry have been particularly volatile and may be very volatile in the future. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could harm our business. There may be a limited market for investors in our industry. There are few publicly traded companies that provide cloud applications at this time. Investors may have limited funds to invest in the cloud applications sector, and as publicly traded securities in these industries become more available, investors who have purchased or may in the future purchase securities in this sector may choose to sell Workday securities that they have already purchased in favor of other companies, or choose to invest in other companies, including our competitors. As a result, demand for our Class A common stock could decline, which would result in a corresponding decline in our stock price. Substantial blocks of our total outstanding shares may be sold into the market when “lock-up” or “market standoff” periods end. If there are substantial sales of shares of our common stock, the price of our Class A common stock could decline. The price of our publicly-traded Class A common stock could decline if there are substantial sales of our common stock, particularly sales by our directors, executive officers, and significant stockholders, or if there is a large number of shares of our common stock available for sale. As of January 31, 2013, we had outstanding 26.2 million shares of our Class A common stock and 140.2 million shares of Class B common stock. All of our outstanding shares of Class B common stock, as well as 0.6 million shares purchased by our directors in our initial public offering, are currently restricted from resale as a result of market standoff and “lock-up” agreements. These shares may be converted to Class A shares and will become available to be sold upon Lock-Up Expiration. In addition, approximately 21.0 million options, including approximately 14.4 million options held by non-affiliates, will be exercisable upon the Lock-Up Expiration. Shares held by directors, executive officers and other affiliates (approximately 112.1 million shares) will be subject to volume limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act and various vesting agreements. Certain of our stockholders have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or our stockholders. All of these shares are subject to market standoff or lock-up agreements restricting their sale until the Lock-Up Expiration. We have registered shares of common stock that we have issued and may issue under our employee equity incentive plans. All of these shares are subject to market standoff or lock-up agreements restricting their sale until the Lock-Up Expiration. Following the expiration of the foregoing market standoff and lock-up agreements, these shares may be sold freely in the public market upon issuance. 28 Table of Contents The market price of the shares of our common stock could decline as a result of the sale of a substantial number of our shares of common stock in the public market or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell their shares. We have broad discretion in the use of the net proceeds from our initial public offering and may not use them effectively. We have broad discretion in the application of the net proceeds that we received from our initial public offering, including working capital, possible acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes, and we may spend or invest these proceeds in a way with which our stockholders disagree. The failure by our management to apply these funds effectively could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Pending their use, we may invest the net proceeds from our initial public offering in a manner that does not produce income or that loses value. These investments may not yield a favorable return to our investors. Our co-founders and co-CEOs have control over key decision making as a result of their control of a majority of our voting stock. Our co-founder and co-CEO David Duffield, together with his affiliates, holds voting rights with respect to 70.1 million shares of Class B common stock. Our co-founder and co-CEO Aneel Bhusri, together with his affiliates, holds voting rights with respect to 21.7 million shares of Class B common stock. In addition, Mr. Bhusri holds exercisable options to acquire 3.2 million shares of Class B common stock and 1.0 million shares of Class B restricted stock. Further, Messrs. Duffield and Bhusri have entered into a voting agreement under which each has granted a voting proxy with respect to certain Class B common stock beneficially owned by him effective upon his death or incapacity as described in our registration statement on Form S-1 filed in connection with our initial public offering. Messrs. Duffield and Bhusri have each initially designated the other as their respective proxies. Accordingly, upon the death or incapacity of either Mr. Duffield or Mr. Bhusri, the other would individually continue to control the voting of shares subject to the voting proxy. Collectively, the shares described above represent a substantial majority of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. As a result, Messrs. Duffield and Bhusri have the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, they have the ability to control the management and affairs of our company as a result of their positions as our co-CEOs and their ability to control the election of our directors. As board members and officers, Messrs. Duffield and Bhusri owe a fiduciary duty to our stockholders and must act in good faith in a manner they reasonably believe to be in the best interests of our stockholders. As stockholders, even as controlling stockholders, they are entitled to vote their shares in their own interests, which may not always be in the interests of our stockholders generally. The dual class structure of our common stock has the effect of concentrating voting control with our co-CEOs, and also with executive officers, directors and other affiliates; this will limit or preclude the ability of non-affiliates to influence corporate matters. Our Class B common stock has ten votes per share and our Class A common stock, which is the stock we offered in our initial public offering, has one vote per share. Stockholders who hold shares of Class B common stock, including our executive officers, directors and other affiliates, together hold above 95% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock as of January 31, 2013. Because of the ten-to-one voting ratio between our Class B and Class A common stock, the holders of our Class B common stock collectively will continue to control a majority of the combined voting power of our common stock and therefore be able to control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval until October 11, 2032 or such earlier time as the shares of Class B common stock represent less than 9% of all outstanding shares of our Class A and Class B common stock, at any time if agreed by the holders of the majority of the Class B common stock or nine months following the death of both Mr. Duffield and Mr. Bhusri. This concentrated control will limit or preclude the ability of non-affiliates to influence corporate matters for the foreseeable future. 29 Table of Contents Future transfers by holders of Class B common stock will generally result in those shares converting to Class A common stock, subject to limited exceptions, such as certain transfers effected for estate planning purposes. The conversion of Class B common stock to Class A common stock will have the effect, over time, of increasing the relative voting power of those holders of Class B common stock who retain their shares in the long term. If, for example, our co-CEOs retain a significant portion of their holdings of Class B common stock for an extended period of time, they could, in the future, continue to control a majority of the combined voting power of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock. If securities or industry analysts publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, or discontinue publishing research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our Class A common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our Class A common stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our Class A common stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our Class A common stock could decrease, which might cause our Class A common stock price and trading volume to decline. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We have never declared nor paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance the operation and expansion of our business, and we do not expect to declare or pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. Consequently, stockholders must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Delaware law and provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws could make a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest difficult, thereby depressing the trading price of our Class A common stock. Our status as a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult, including the following: • any transaction that would result in a change in control of our company requires the approval of a majority of our outstanding Class B common stock voting as a separate class; • we have a dual class common stock structure, which provides our co-CEOs with the ability to control the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, even if they own significantly less than a majority of the shares of our outstanding Class A and Class B common stock; • our board of directors is classified into three classes of directors with staggered three-year terms and directors are only able to be removed from office for cause; • when the outstanding shares of our Class B common stock represent less than a majority of the combined voting power of common stock: • certain amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation or restated bylaws will require the approval of two-thirds of the combined vote of our then-outstanding shares of Class A and Class B common stock; • our stockholders will only be able to take action at a meeting of stockholders and not by written consent; and 30 Table of Contents • vacancies on our board of directors will be able to be filled only by our board of directors and not by stockholders; • only our chairman of the board, our co-chief executive officers, our president, or a majority of our board of directors are authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders; • certain litigation against us can only be brought in Delaware; • we will have two classes of common stock until the date that is the first to occur of (i) October 11, 2032, (ii) such time as the shares of Class B common stock represent less than 9% of the outstanding Class A and Class B common stock, (iii) nine months following the death of both Mr. Duffield and Mr. Bhusri, or (iv) the date on which the holders of a majority of the shares of Class B common stock elect to convert all shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock into a single class of common stock; • our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established, and shares of which may be issued, without the approval of the holders of Class A common stock; and • advance notice procedures apply for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders. 31 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 