Risk Factors – If the Company’s competitors develop and market products that are more effective, safer or less expensive than CPX-351, the Company’s commercial opportunities may be negatively impacted.” Additional Product Opportunities In addition to CPX-351, the Company has other product candidates, which include CPX-1, CPX-571 and HDPN. • CPX-1 is a liposomal formulation of irinotecan:floxuridine, which is a clinical stage product candidate; • CPX-571 is a liposomal formulation of irinotecan:cisplatin, which is a preclinical stage product candidate; • HDPN (also known as CPX-8) is a hydrophobic docetaxel prodrug nanoparticle which is a preclinical stage product candidate. Additional capital, beyond the Company’s current financing efforts, would be required should the Company elect to advance any of these candidates. CPX-1 The combination of irinotecan plus a fluorinated pyrimidine, typically 5-FU, is a standard chemotherapy combination for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer (“CRC”). In the FOLFIRI (folinic acid (leucovorin), 5-FU and irinotecan) regimen used today, irinotecan is administered bi-weekly as a 90 minute infusion of 180 mg/m2 on day 1 and 5-FU is administered starting with a bolus loading 16 Table of Contents dose of 400 mg/m2 followed by a continuous infusion of 2.4-3 gm/m2 over 96 hours starting on day 1. Consequently, irinotecan:fluoropyrimidine ratios are continuously changing during the course of therapy, with the possibility of tumor cells being exposed to antagonistic drug ratios should this combination exhibit drug ratio-dependent synergy. It should be noted that floxuridine rather than 5-FU was selected for evaluation of drug ratio dependent synergy because floxuridine displayed enhanced retention in liposomes as well as the fact that previous studies have demonstrated the clinical equivalency of floxuridine with 5-FU in comparative clinical studies. Scientific Rationale of CPX-1 The combination of irinotecan and floxuridine was screened for drug ratio dependent synergy in vitro in a panel of tumor cell lines. The 1:1 molar ratio of irinotecan:floxuridine was frequently synergistic and avoided antagonism whereas other ratios exhibited a loss of synergy and in some cases the appearance of strong antagonism (e.g., 1:10 ratio). Consequently, engineering nano-scale liposomes to maintain the 1:1 molar ratio of these two drugs after intravenous injection was performed in order to increase efficacy by capturing the full synergy potential and avoiding antagonistic ratios. A liposome formulation (CPX-1) was developed that co-encapsulated irinotecan and floxuridine and maintained the synergistic 1:1 molar ratio in the blood for approximately 24 hours after intravenous injection, selectively delivering the drugs to solid tumors. When tested in a range of preclinical solid tumor models, CPX-1 consistently provided improvements in therapeutic efficacy over the unencapsulated drug cocktail of irinotecan:floxuridine. For example, in a preclinical pancreatic tumor model, CPX-1 produced 100% tumor regression and long-term cures, whereas the drug cocktail provided only modest inhibition of tumor growth. Phase 1 Clinical Study of CPX-1 Based on the promising preclinical results described above, CPX-1 was advanced into a Phase 1 dose escalation clinical study in patients with advanced solid tumors. The primary goal for this study was to establish the safety profile for CPX-1, recommend a safe dose for further study in a Phase 2 setting, determine the dose dependent PK of CPX-1 and gather evidence of antitumor activity. The MTD of CPX-1 was identified as 210 U/m2 (1 Unit = 1.0 mg irinotecan + 0.36 mg floxuridine) and once established, seven patients with CRC were enrolled at this dose (extension cohort) to obtain additional safety and efficacy data. Severe AEs that were dose related included grade 3 or 4 diarrhea (24.2%) and neutropenia (12.1%). The target 1:1 molar ratio of irinotecan to floxuridine was maintained in the blood of all patients for 8-12 hours and in many cases up to 24 hours. Complete response (“CR”: defined as disappearance of all clinical and radiological evidence of tumor), partial response (“PR”: defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions by clinical and radiological evidence taking as reference the baseline sum of the longest diameters.), stable disease (“SD”: defined as a steady state of disease, i.e., neither sufficient shrinkage by clinical and radiological evidence to qualify for PR or sufficient increase to qualify for PD), and progressive disease (“PD”: defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters of measured lesions by clinical and radiological evidence taking as references the smallest sum of longest diameters recorded since the treatment started; the appearance of new lesions will also constitute progressive disease) were evaluable in 30 of 33 patients. Three patients achieved a PR, 21 patients achieved SD and six patients had PD. Disease control (CR, PR or SD) was observed in 11 of 15 (73.3%) patients with CRC. Among the 18 subjects with other tumor types, one PR in non-small cell lung cancer (“NSCLC”) and 11 SD were observed. Progression-free survival lasting greater than 6 months was observed in six patients with colorectal cancer and one patient each with pancreatic, ovarian and NSCLC. Colorectal cancer patients exhibited a favorable median progression free survival (“PFS”) of 5.4 months. PFS is the length of time after initiation of treatment, during which the disease being treated (usually cancer) does not get worse. 17 Table of Contents Phase 2 Clinical Study of CPX-1 In view of the high level of disease control observed in the Phase 1 clinical study as well as the encouraging results obtained in colorectal patients regardless of prior irinotecan exposure, CPX-1 was evaluated in CRC patients in a Phase 2 setting. A dose of 210 U/m2 was administered bi-weekly to patients that were either irinotecan naïve (Arm A, 26 patients) or irinotecan refractory (Arm B, 33 patients). The median PFS, response rate and overall disease control rate for CPX-1 were greater than documented for FOLFIRI in irinotecan-naïve CRC patients. Similar results were obtained in the irinotecan refractory arm. Although no confirmed PRs were achieved in this patient population, the proportion of patients benefiting from CPX-1 treatment and the PFS were similar to the documented benefit of Vectibix® (panitumomab), an approved drug for the treatment of irinotecan refractory patients. The adverse event profile of CPX-1 was generally consistent with the combination of irinotecan and floxuridine. In this study, dose reductions and/or delays were frequently caused by: diarrhea, nausea and vomiting, or all three. Also observed were neutropenia, infections and fatigue. There was no severe stomatitis or rash. Based on the frequency of dose reductions and delays, the dose used in this study appears to be too high. The frequency of dose reductions and delays prevented an adequate assessment of efficacy for CPX-1. The research relating to CPX-1 consists of only a single Phase 1 study, with 33 late stage patients (15 colorectal) and a single Phase 2 clinical study, with 59 colorectal patients (26 irinotecan-naïve and 33 irinotecan-refractory) and, because of the limited number of patients treated, cannot provide conclusive evidence that the product candidate is effective for the treatment of colorectal or other cancers. Additional clinical studies, utilizing different doses of CPX-1 and combining CPX-1 with other agents, will be needed before clinical investigators and practicing oncologists accept the efficacy of CPX-1. The Company believes that no controversy exists regarding CPX-1 because the data are not sufficient to either prove or disprove efficacy. Preclinical studies suggested that in vivo delivery of the 1:1 molar ratio of irinotecan:floxuridine could markedly improve efficacy of this drug combination. In addition, the prolonged drug exposure to solid tumors provided by CPX-1 over the drug cocktail may provide further efficacy enhancement. Future Clinical Development of CPX-1 While recent clinical trials sponsored by the Company have focused on CPX-351, Celator has identified clinical development paths and a strategy that provides multiple avenues for potential clinical success and eventual registration of CPX-1. This strategy is based on the assumption that CPX-1, either by itself or in combination with other agents, will need to provide a meaningful and statistically significant improvement in a time-to-event endpoint (i.e., progression free survival) over current standard of care in order to be approved by the FDA. The clinical results obtained to date with CPX-1 suggest that it is more efficacious than conventional FOLFIRI in treating metastatic CRC, both in terms of response/disease control rate as well as duration of disease control. Consequently, if clinical studies confirm a benefit for CPX-1 over FOLFIRI, CPX-1 could substitute for FOLFIRI, initially in second line treatment of FOLFOX failures. The approvals of Avastin® and Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (“EGFR”) inhibitors (i.e., Erbitux® and Vectibix®) for treatment of metastatic CRC have transformed the standard of care for the management of CRC patients, particularly in North America. The majority of these patients in North America now receive chemotherapy (e.g., FOLFIRI) in combination with a biological agent. In this context, it should be noted that preclinical studies suggest that CPX-1 combines favorably with both Avastin and EGFR inhibitors. Even as the utilization of biological agents evolves, FOLFIRI will continue 18 Table of Contents to be a treatment regimen with which biologicals will be combined and consequently a potentially important role for CPX-1 in the treatment of CRC is expected if randomized clinical studies are able to demonstrate that the efficacy of CPX-1 is superior to FOLFIRI. In addition to the opportunities for combining CPX-1 with approved biological agents, the demonstration that EGFR inhibitors are ineffective against CRC exhibiting K-Ras mutations has opened an additional window of opportunity for CPX-1 since clinical studies have shown that the response to FOLFIRI is not diminished in CRC patients exhibiting K-Ras mutations. Given the results from the Phase 1 and Phase 2 studies, Celator believes that CPX-1 could provide a significant benefit over FOLFIRI in CRC patients. Taken together, Celator believes the scientific evidence in clinical and preclinical studies supports the investigation of CPX-1 in multiple CRC settings. In addition, Celator believes other indications in which FOLFIRI has demonstrated favorable response rates (e.g., gastric cancer), as well as those in which CPX-1 exhibited activity in the Phase 1 study represent additional opportunities for clinical development. Preclinical-Stage Pipeline In addition to Celator’s two clinical-stage products, CPX-351 and CPX-1, research undertaken by the Company has identified two preclinical-stage products that have exhibited promising anticancer activity in animal models. These are CPX-571, a liposomal formulation containing the combination of irinotecan plus cisplatin, and HDPN, which is a hydrophobic docetaxel prodrug nanoparticle, also known as CPX-8, in this case a single drug formulation that utilizes Celator’s proprietary prodrug nanoparticle technology. CPX-571 Small cell lung cancer (“SCLC”) is characterized by rapid disease progression, low cure rates and a high incidence of mortality. There are an estimated 32,000 new cases per year in the U.S., which represents 15% of all lung cancers. SCLC is initially responsive to both chemotherapy and radiotherapy; however, the vast majority of patients relapse. Although the current standard of care represents the most effective drug therapy for patients with SCLC, novel treatments are warranted to improve the survival rates, particularly for recurrent disease. Irinotecan and cisplatin are two established anticancer drugs which together constitute an active combination for treating SCLC. Celator investigated whether the efficacy of this combination could be improved by controlling drug ratios following in vivo administration. Irinotecan and cisplatin combinations were evaluated systematically for drug ratio-dependent synergy in vitro using a panel of 20 tumor cell lines. In vitro screening informatics on drug ratio-dependent cytotoxicity identified a consistently antagonistic region between irinotecan:cisplatin molar ratios of 1:2 and 4:1, which was bordered by two synergistic regions. Liposomal co-formulations of these two agents were developed that maintained a fixed drug ratio for greater than 24 hours. Drug ratio-dependent antitumor activity was demonstrated in vivo for these liposome formulations and improved antitumor activity was observed for the liposome-encapsulated 7:1 molar ratio of irinotecan:cisplatin (designated CPX-571) compared to the drug cocktail in all models tested, including an irinotecan-resistant model. CPX-571, a fixed-ratio formulation of irinotecan and cisplatin, is a potential candidate for further development. HDPN The taxanes (e.g., Taxol® (paclitaxel) and Taxotere® (docetaxel)) comprise a class of water-insoluble (hydrophobic) anticancer drugs that are used extensively to treat a range of cancers, including breast, ovarian and non-small cell lung. Whereas liposomes are well suited as nano-scale delivery systems 19 Table of Contents for water soluble drugs such as those contained in CPX-351, CPX-1 and CPX-571, they typically are unable to retain hydrophobic agents such as the taxanes after administration in the body. Celator has developed nanoparticle formulations of both paclitaxel and docetaxel based on Celator’s proprietary hydrophobic prodrug technology platform (see below for full description) that are significantly more efficacious than the conventional commercially used formulations in preclinical tumor models. Celator developed a library of taxane prodrugs that have demonstrated a wide range of plasma elimination rates and tested them for efficacy compared to their conventional drug counterparts in preclinical solid tumor models. Although conventional paclitaxel in the form of Taxol and docetaxel in the form of Taxotere were able to induce regression of established HT-29 solid tumors, only paclitaxel and docetaxel formulated as prodrug nanoparticles were able to achieve a significant proportion of complete tumor regression and prolonged delay of tumor re-growth. Interestingly, when HDPN was tested for efficacy, not only was the degree of therapeutic activity greater than Taxotere when the two agents were compared at their respective MTDs, but HDPN also exhibited increased antitumor potency compared to Taxotere when administered at equivalent drug doses. Consequently, HDPN has been identified as Celator’s lead nanoparticle-based formulation for development consideration and the National Cancer Institute’s Nanotechnology Characterization Laboratory has selected this product for extensive in vitro and in vivo evaluation with an interest in seeing it advance towards clinical studies. Pharmaceutical Development Overview Celator’s drug product candidates are considered nano-scale drug delivery vehicles. This means that the active agents are incorporated into a delivery vehicle forming particles in the 10-200nm size range that are suitable for intravenous administration. The complex features of these drug products require additional considerations for both manufacturing and testing beyond those needed for traditional small molecules in solution. For the liposomal drug candidates, modified mixing and extrusion systems are needed to prepare the liposome carrier at the desired particle size. The active pharmaceutical ingredients (“APIs”) are usually incorporated into these preformed liposomes. For nanoparticle drug candidates, special high speed mixing is used where the delivery system and active agents are combined and formed in a single step. Once the equipment is designed and in place, the manufacturing processes are optimized and batches of product from 1L to more than 200L can be reproduced. The composition of the drug products is complex and includes the APIs, delivery vehicle components, polymers and buffers depending on the particular drug product. Analysis requires the development of novel analytical methods to determine the identity, assay, purity, relevant physicochemical attributes and US Pharmacopeia, general chapter 1, expectations for an injectable drug. Celator has the expertise to develop manufacturing and analytical procedures for a variety of nano-scale drug products. For example, the process to manufacture CPX-351 (cytarabine:daunorubicin) liposome injection has undergone process improvement measures and feasibility testing such that a scalable, reproducible, cost-effective manufacturing process is in place. The batch scale is suitable for further clinical development, as well as commercial supply. Testing methods have been developed and validated per FDA and the International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH) guidelines. Celator does not currently own or operate manufacturing facilities for the production or testing of CPX-351 or other product candidates that it develops, nor does it have plans to develop its own manufacturing operations in the foreseeable future. Celator presently depends on third-party contract manufacturers for all of its required raw materials, APIs and finished products for its preclinical and clinical studies. 20 Table of Contents Celator has executed a non-exclusive manufacturing and supply agreement for clinical and commercial supply of CPX-351 with Baxter Oncology GmbH (“Baxter”), an established manufacturing firm with special facilities to manufacture and test cytotoxic agents. A quality agreement and product master plan have also been finalized. The Company expects that Baxter will be the sole source for CPX-351 drug product for the clinical studies and at the time of commercialization. The contract does not specify a minimum quantity of product for clinical purposes and the annual obligation for commercial use is in the low single digits, i.e., less than five batches per year, for the first four years and then as mutually agreed to by the parties. The product purchase price is subject to an annual adjustment not to exceed the percentage change of the German producer price index. In addition to normal contractual termination provisions for breach or in the event of bankruptcy or corporate dissolution, the agreement has no set term and may be terminated (i) on 24 months’ notice by either party, or (ii) 90 days after notice by either party if no regulatory approval occurs within 36 months after the initial NDA/MAA filing. APIs are purchased from commercial vendors who, preferably, hold active drug master files (“DMFs”) in the US, Canada and Europe. Membrane components for the liposome products are commercially available from suppliers with either DMFs (in the US) or Certificate of Suitability (in the EU). Intellectual Property The Company’s goal is to obtain, maintain and enforce patent protection for its product candidates, formulations, processes, methods and any other proprietary technologies, preserve its trade secrets, and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of other parties, both in the U.S. and in other countries. The Company’s policy is to actively seek to obtain, where appropriate, the broadest intellectual property protection possible for its current product candidates and any future product candidates, proprietary information and proprietary technology through a combination of contractual arrangements and patents, both in the U.S. and abroad. However, patent protection may not afford the Company with complete protection against competitors who seek to circumvent the Company’s patents. The Company also depends upon the skills, knowledge, experience and know-how of its management and research and development personnel, as well as that of its advisors, consultants and other contractors. To help protect its proprietary know-how, which is not patentable, and for inventions for which patents may be difficult to enforce, the Company currently relies and will in the future rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect its interests. To this end, the Company requires all of its employees, consultants, advisors and other contractors to enter into confidentiality agreements that prohibit the disclosure of confidential information and, where applicable, require disclosure and assignment to it of the ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions important to its business. Celator has entered into various arrangements with corporate, academic and government collaborators, licensors, licensees and others. The Company has entered into a collaborative research agreement with the British Columbia Cancer Agency, or BCCA dated May 2001, the purpose of which was to: (a) provide for the transfer from BCCA to the Company of all prior intellectual property developed by the Company’s founders, Dr. Lawrence Mayer and Dr. Marcel Bally, in their respective BCCA laboratories; (b) establish the terms and conditions on which BCCA will conduct for the Company a mutually agreed program of Company-sponsored research and development in the fields of research including lipid delivery systems and drug combination formulations, as well as license and conditionally assign to the Company all resulting Company-sponsored intellectual property; (c) provide for the issuance to BCCA of a number of shares being equivalent to mid-single digit percentage of the founders shares in the capital stock of the Company 21 Table of Contents in consideration for the assignment of prior intellectual property by BCCA to the Company and the covenants and obligations contained in this Agreement; and (d) in consideration of the license and conditional assignment of all Company-sponsored intellectual property to the Company by BCCA, establish the terms on which the Company will pay to BCCA a royalty in the low single digits on net sales of royalty-bearing products in territories so long as a valid claim exists for inventions made between June 2000 and June 2005 under the agreement. All obligations relating to the conduct of the research and assignment of intellectual property have been completed as of June 28, 2004. No payments of royalties have been made to date. Either party may terminate the agreement if the other party commits a material breach or default and such breach or default is not reasonably cured within 45 days of the notice. Obligations that remain include continued maintenance of patents for which of issued patents with claims covering the Company’s current products in development, royalty obligations would continue to be due until 2027 for the latest expiring patent. The Settlement Agreement with the BCCA was established to resolve a disagreement regarding the obligations of BCCA and the Company with respect to assignment of four patent families covering CombiPlex, CPX-1, drug resistance and individualized therapy technologies. The Company had disagreed with BCCA’s position that these patent families were to be considered Company-sponsored intellectual property. The resolution of this disagreement was that Drs. Bally and Mayer would assign rights to the inventions to BCCA, which would, in turn, immediately assign the rights to the Company. In return, a small adjustment in the calculation of the royalty rate due BCCA under the collaborative research agreement is in effect for products in territories where valid claims of the cited patent families exist. No royalty payments have been made to date for any such products covered. The Company has entered into a worldwide exclusive license agreement with Princeton University dated June 28, 2007 that remains in effect until the longer of the expiration of the last-to-expire patent licensed under the agreement or ten years from the date of first commercial sale of a licensed product in all countries of the world in which Princeton University and Celator have patent rights. The agreement provides the Company with exclusive rights to inventions arising from research sponsored by the Company between 2003 to 2007 generally characterized as particulate constructs for release of active agents as described in the application (PCT/US2005/025549) for medical applications. This PCT application is co-owned by the Company. All obligations for research conducted under the research agreement have been completed as of March 31, 2007. The Company will have to pay a royalty on net sales to Princeton University of a low single-digit percentage if any invention is sold by the Company or a company to which the product covered by the invention was licensed by Celator, that was generated under the exclusive licensing agreement. No royalty or other product/sub-license-related payments have been made to date. The duration of royalty obligations will be dictated by the final patent term adjustment made by the United States Patent and Trademark Office upon granting of claims. To date, no claims in this application have been granted and no products related to this agreement have been licensed. The minimum duration of valid claims and hence royalty obligations would be 2025 based on the original patent filing date of 2005. The Company is obligated to provide Princeton University a percentage within the range of 45% to 55% of proceeds obtained from a sub-license of the intellectual property to a third party in cases where the Company has not conducted any research or development activities and is solely licensing the original intellectual property jointly developed by the Company and Princeton University. The agreement remains in effect in each country of the territory until the longer of (i) expiration of the last-to-expire patent licensed under the agreement in such country or (ii) ten years from the date of first commercial sale of a licensed product in such country. Ongoing obligations of the Company under this agreement include delivery of an annual progress report to Princeton University describing the 22 Table of Contents Company’s development of the licensed technology as well as a description of prosecution of the patents covering the technology and the use of commercially reasonable efforts to develop licensed products. The Company may terminate the agreement at any time by giving 90 days’ written notice to Princeton University. Princeton University may terminate the agreement if the Company breaches or fails to perform any of the covenants of the agreement by providing written notice of default to the Company and the Company’s failure to cure the default within 60 days of the notice. As the Company is co-owner of the patent applications it can practice the technology even if the license is terminated. Patents and Patent Applications Celator’s multilayered approach to obtaining broad patent protection of its products started with the global CombiPlex patent followed by specific drug class combination applications as well as more focused “toolbox” patent applications which cover various drug loading and delivery methods and compositions. Taking this approach, Celator has established a series of patents/patent applications that include 81 issued patents and 46 pending applications covering multiple drug candidates and the technology platform. The expiration dates for patents that cover CPX-351 and CPX-1 are shown below: CPX-351 Patent Coverage US EU Japan CombiPlex® 2027 2022 2022 Composition & Methods 2027 2025 2025 Clinical Use 2029 Pending (exp. 2028) Pending (exp. 2028) Copper Loading 2024 2022 2022 Low Cholesterol PG Liposomes Pending (exp. 2022) 2022 2022 Lyophilized Liposomes Pending (exp. 2032) To Be Filed (exp. 2032) To Be Filed (exp. 2032) CPX-1 Patent Coverage US EU Japan CombiPlex® 2027 2022 2022 Copper Loading 2024 2022 2022 Low Cholesterol PG Liposomes Pending (exp. 2022) 2022 2022 Clinical Use 2029 Pending (exp. 2026) Pending (exp. 2026) Lyophilized Liposomes Pending (exp. 2032) Pending (exp. 2032) Pending (exp. 2032) Trademarks Celator and/or any of its subsidiaries own 12 registered trademarks and pending trademarks. The Company’s material trademarks are as follows: CELATOR®; CELATOR PHARMACEUTICALS™; and COMBIPLEX®, which relate to development of the Company’s CPX-351 and CPX-1 products. The Company’s success for preserving market exclusivity for its product candidates relies on its ability to obtain and maintain effective patent coverage, regulatory period data exclusivity and/or orphan 23 Table of Contents drug status if applicable. In addition, the Company also seeks to protect additional intellectual property rights such as trade secrets and know-how, including commercial manufacturing processes and proprietary business practices. GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND PRODUCT APPROVAL Government authorities in the U.S., at the federal, state and local level, and other countries extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, approval, labeling, packaging, storage, record-keeping, promotion, advertising, distribution, post-approval monitoring and reporting, marketing and export and import of products such as those the Company is developing. The pharmaceutical drug product candidates that the Company develops must be approved by the FDA before they may be legally marketed in the U.S. U.S. Pharmaceutical Product Development Process In the U.S., the FDA regulates pharmaceutical products under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, and implementing regulations. Pharmaceutical products are also subject to other federal, state and local statutes and regulations. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Failure to comply with the applicable U.S. requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process or after approval, may subject an applicant to administrative or judicial sanctions. FDA sanctions could include refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawal of an approval, a clinical hold, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution injunctions, fines, refusals of government contracts, restitution, disgorgement or civil or criminal penalties. Any agency or judicial enforcement action could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The process required by the FDA before a non-biological pharmaceutical product may be marketed in the U.S. generally involves the following: • Completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies according to Good Laboratory Practices or other applicable regulations; • Submission to the FDA of an Investigational New Drug (“IND”), which must become effective before human clinical studies may begin; • Performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical studies according to the FDA’s current good clinical practices (“GCP”), to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed pharmaceutical product for its intended use; • Submission to the FDA of an NDA for a new pharmaceutical product; • Satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities where the pharmaceutical product is produced to assess compliance with the FDA’s current good manufacturing practice standards (“cGMP”), to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the pharmaceutical product’s identity, strength, quality and purity; • Potential FDA audit of the preclinical and clinical study sites that generated the data in support of the NDA; and • FDA review and approval of the NDA. The lengthy process of seeking required approvals and the continuing need for compliance with applicable statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial resources and approvals are inherently uncertain. 24 Table of Contents Before testing any compounds with potential therapeutic value in humans, the pharmaceutical product candidate enters the preclinical testing stage. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations of product chemistry, toxicity and formulation, as well as animal studies to assess the potential safety and activity of the pharmaceutical product candidate. These early proof-of-principle studies are done using sound scientific procedures and thorough documentation. The conduct of the single and repeat dose toxicology and toxicokinetic studies in animals must comply with federal regulations and requirements including good laboratory practices. The sponsor must submit the results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information, analytical data, any available clinical data or literature and a proposed clinical protocol, to the FDA as part of the IND. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA has concerns and notifies the sponsor. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical study can begin. If resolution cannot be reached within the 30-day review period, either the FDA places the IND on clinical hold or the sponsor withdraws the application. The FDA may also impose clinical holds on a pharmaceutical product candidate at any time before or during clinical studies due to safety concerns or non-compliance. Accordingly, the Company cannot be sure that submission of an IND will result in the FDA allowing clinical studies to begin, or that, once begun, issues will not arise that suspend or terminate such clinical study. Clinical studies involve the administration of the pharmaceutical product candidate to healthy volunteers or patients under the supervision of qualified investigators, generally physicians not employed by or under the clinical study sponsor’s control. Clinical studies are conducted under protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the clinical study, dosing procedures, subject selection and exclusion criteria, how the results will be analyzed and presented and the parameters to be used to monitor subject safety. Each protocol must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. Clinical studies must be conducted in accordance with the GCP. Further, each clinical study must be reviewed and approved by an independent institutional review board (“IRB”) at, or servicing, each institution at which the clinical study will be conducted. An IRB is charged with protecting the welfare and rights of study participants and considers such items as whether the risks to individuals participating in the clinical studies are minimized and are reasonable in relation to anticipated benefits. The IRB also approves the informed consent form that must be provided to each clinical study subject or his or her legal representative and must monitor the clinical study until completed. Human clinical studies are typically conducted in three sequential phases that may overlap or be combined: • Phase 1. The pharmaceutical product is initially introduced into healthy human subjects and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and excretion. In the case of some products for severe or life-threatening diseases such as cancer, especially when the product may be too inherently toxic to ethically administer to healthy volunteers, the initial human testing is often conducted in patients. The Company’s pharmaceutical products fall into this latter category because its products are intended to treat cancer and contain cytotoxic agents. Hence, the Company’s Phase 1 studies are conducted in late-stage cancer patients whose disease has progressed after treatment with other agents. • Phase 2. The pharmaceutical product is evaluated in a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the product for specific targeted diseases, to determine dosage tolerance, optimal dosage and dosing schedule and to identify patient populations with specific characteristics (for example, cytogenetic mutations) where the pharmaceutical product may be more effective. 25 Table of Contents • Phase 3. Clinical studies are undertaken to further evaluate dosage, clinical efficacy and safety in an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical study sites. These clinical studies are intended to establish the overall risk/benefit ratio of the product and provide an adequate basis for product labeling. The studies must be well controlled and usually include a control arm for comparison. One or two Phase 3 studies are required by the FDA for an NDA approval, depending on the disease severity and other available treatment options. • Post-approval studies, or Phase 4 clinical studies, may be conducted after initial marketing approval. These studies are used to gain additional experience from the treatment of patients in the intended therapeutic indication. • Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical studies must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and written IND safety reports must be submitted to the FDA and the investigators for serious and unexpected adverse events or any finding from tests in laboratory animals that suggests a significant risk for human subjects. Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical studies may not be completed successfully within any specified period, if at all. The FDA or the sponsor or its data safety monitoring board may suspend a clinical study at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Similarly, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical study at its institution if the clinical study is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB’s requirements or if the pharmaceutical product has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients. Concurrent with clinical studies, companies usually complete additional animal studies and must also develop additional information about the chemistry and physical characteristics of the pharmaceutical product as well as finalize a process for manufacturing the product in commercial quantities in accordance with cGMP requirements. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the pharmaceutical product candidate and, among other things, must develop methods for testing the identity, strength, quality and purity of the final pharmaceutical product. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the pharmaceutical product candidate does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf life. U.S. Review and Approval Processes The results of product development, preclinical studies and clinical studies, along with descriptions of the manufacturing process, analytical tests conducted on the chemistry of the pharmaceutical product, proposed labeling and other relevant information are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA requesting approval to market the product. The submission of an NDA is subject to the payment of substantial user fees; a waiver of such fees may be obtained under certain limited circumstances. In addition, under the Pediatric Research Equity Act (“PREA”), an NDA or supplement to an NDA must contain data to assess the safety and effectiveness of the pharmaceutical product for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the product is safe and effective. The FDA may grant deferrals for submission of data or full or partial waivers. Unless otherwise required by regulation, PREA does not apply to any pharmaceutical product for an indication for which orphan designation has been granted. The FDA reviews all NDAs submitted before it accepts them for filing and may request additional information rather than accepting an NDA for filing. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review of the NDA. Under the goals and policies agreed to by the FDA 26 Table of Contents under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (“PDUFA”), the FDA has 10 months after the 60-day filing date in which to complete its initial review of a standard NDA and respond to the applicant, and six months after the 60-day filing date for a priority NDA. The FDA does not always meet its PDUFA goal dates for standard and priority NDAs. After the NDA submission is accepted for filing, the FDA reviews the NDA application to determine, among other things, whether the proposed product is safe and effective for its intended use, and whether the product is being manufactured in accordance with cGMP to assure and preserve the product’s identity, strength, quality and purity. The FDA may refer applications for novel pharmaceutical products or pharmaceutical products which present difficult questions of safety or efficacy to an advisory committee, typically a panel that includes clinicians and other experts, for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved and under what conditions. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of an advisory committee, but it considers such recommendations carefully when making decisions. During the pharmaceutical product approval process, the FDA also will determine whether a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy (“REMS”) is necessary to assure the safe use of the pharmaceutical product. If the FDA concludes that a REMS is needed, the sponsor of the NDA must submit a proposed REMS; the FDA will not approve the NDA without a REMS, if required. Before approving an NDA, the FDA will inspect the facilities at which the product is manufactured. The FDA will not approve the product unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. Additionally, before approving an NDA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites as well as the site where the pharmaceutical product is manufactured to assure compliance with GCP and cGMP. If the FDA determines the application, manufacturing process or manufacturing facilities are not acceptable, it will outline the deficiencies in the submission and often will request additional testing or information. In addition, the FDA will require the review and approval of product labeling. The NDA review and approval process is lengthy and difficult and the FDA may refuse to approve an NDA if the applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied or may require additional clinical data or other data and information. Even if such data and information is submitted, the FDA may ultimately decide that the NDA does not satisfy the criteria for approval. Data obtained from clinical studies are not always conclusive and the FDA may interpret data differently than the Company interprets the same data. The FDA will issue a complete response letter if the agency decides not to approve the NDA. The complete response letter usually describes all of the specific deficiencies in the NDA identified by the FDA. The deficiencies identified may be minor, for example, requiring labeling changes, or major, for example, requiring additional clinical studies. Additionally, the complete response letter may include recommended actions that the applicant might take to place the application in a condition for approval. If a complete response letter is issued, the applicant may either resubmit the NDA, addressing all of the deficiencies identified in the letter, or withdraw the application. If a product receives regulatory approval, the approval may be significantly limited to specific diseases and dosages or the indications for use may otherwise be limited, which could restrict the commercial value of the product. Further, the FDA may require that certain contraindications, warnings or precautions be included in the product labeling. In addition, the FDA may require Phase 4 testing which involves clinical studies designed to further assess pharmaceutical product safety and effectiveness and may require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the safety of approved products that have been commercialized. 27 Table of Contents Expedited Development and Review Programs The FDA has a Fast Track program that is intended to expedite or facilitate the process for reviewing new pharmaceutical products that meet certain criteria. Specifically, new pharmaceutical products are eligible for Fast Track designation if they are intended to treat a serious or life-threatening condition and demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs for the condition. Fast Track designation applies to the combination of the product and the specific indication for which it is being studied. Unique to a Fast Track product, the FDA may consider for review sections of the NDA on a rolling basis before the complete application is submitted, if the sponsor provides a schedule for the submission of the sections of the NDA, if the FDA agrees to accept sections of the NDA and determines that the schedule is acceptable and if the sponsor pays any required user fees upon submission of the first section of the NDA. Any product submitted to the FDA for market, including a Fast Track program, may also be eligible for other types of FDA programs intended to expedite development and review, such as priority review and accelerated approval. Any product is eligible for priority review if it has the potential to provide safe and effective therapy where no satisfactory alternative therapy exists or a significant improvement in the treatment, diagnosis or prevention of a disease compared to marketed products. The FDA will attempt to direct additional resources to the evaluation of an application for a new pharmaceutical product designated for priority review in an effort to facilitate the review. Additionally, a product may be eligible for accelerated approval. Pharmaceutical products studied for their safety and effectiveness in treating serious or life-threatening illnesses and that provide meaningful therapeutic benefit over existing treatments may receive accelerated approval, which means that the products may be approved on the basis of adequate and well-controlled clinical studies establishing that the product has an effect on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a clinical benefit, or on the basis of an effect on a clinical endpoint other than survival or irreversible morbidity. As a condition of approval, the FDA may require that a sponsor of a pharmaceutical product receiving accelerated approval perform adequate and well-controlled post-marketing clinical studies. In addition, the FDA currently requires as a condition for accelerated approval pre-approval of promotional materials, which could impact the timing of the commercial launch of the product. Fast Track designation, priority review and accelerated approval do not change the standards for approval but may expedite the development or approval process. Post-Approval Requirements Any pharmaceutical products for which the Company receives FDA approvals are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, record-keeping requirements, reporting of adverse experiences with the product, providing the FDA with updated safety and efficacy information, product sampling and distribution requirements, complying with certain electronic records and signature requirements and complying with FDA promotion and advertising requirements, which include, among others, standards for direct-to-consumer advertising, prohibitions on promoting pharmaceutical products for uses or in patient populations that are not described in the pharmaceutical product’s approved labeling (known as “off-label use”), industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities and promotional activities involving the internet. Failure to comply with FDA requirements can have negative consequences, including adverse publicity, enforcement letters from the FDA, actions by the U.S. Department of Justice and/or U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of Inspector General, mandated corrective advertising or communications with doctors, and civil or criminal penalties. Although physicians may prescribe legally available pharmaceutical products for off-label uses, manufacturers may not directly or indirectly market or promote such off-label uses. The Company relies, and expects to continue to rely, on third parties for the production of clinical and commercial quantities of the Company’s products. Manufacturers of the Company’s products are 28 Table of Contents required to comply with applicable FDA manufacturing requirements contained in the FDA’s cGMP regulations. cGMP regulations require, among other things, quality control and quality assurance, as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Pharmaceutical product manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved pharmaceutical products are required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with cGMP and other laws. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. Discovery of problems with a product after approval may result in restrictions on a product, manufacturer or holder of an approved NDA, including withdrawal of the product from the market. In addition, changes to the manufacturing process generally require prior FDA approval before being implemented and other types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications and additional labeling claims, are also subject to further FDA review and approval. The FDA also may require post-marketing testing, known as Phase 4 testing, risk minimization action plans and surveillance to monitor the effects of an approved product or place conditions on an approval that could restrict the distribution or use of the product. Other Healthcare Laws and Compliance Requirements In the U.S., the Company’s activities are potentially subject to regulation by various federal, state and local authorities in addition to the FDA, including the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, other divisions of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (e.g., the Office of the Inspector General), the U.S. Department of Justice and individual U.S. Attorney offices within the Department of Justice and state and local governments. For example, sales, marketing and scientific/educational grant programs must comply with the anti-fraud and abuse provisions of the Social Security Act, the False Claims Act, the privacy provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (“HIPAA”), and similar state laws, each as amended. Pricing and rebate programs must comply with the federal Anti-kickback Statute, Medicaid rebate requirements of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 and the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, each as amended. If products are made available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule of the General Services Administration, additional laws and requirements apply. Under the Veterans Health Care Act (“VHCA”), pharmaceutical product companies are required to offer certain pharmaceutical products at a reduced price to a number of federal agencies, including the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs and the U.S. Department of Defense, the Public Health Service and certain private Public Health Service designated entities in order to participate in other federal funding programs including Medicare and Medicaid. Participation under the VHCA requires submission of pricing data and calculation of discounts and rebates pursuant to complex statutory formulas, as well as the entry into government procurement contracts governed by the Federal Acquisition Regulations. In order to distribute products commercially, the Company must comply with state laws that require the registration of manufacturers and wholesale distributors of pharmaceutical products in a state, including, in certain states, manufacturers and distributors who ship products into the state even if such manufacturers or distributors have no place of business within the state. Some states also impose requirements on manufacturers and distributors to establish the pedigree of product in the chain of distribution, including some states that require manufacturers and others to adopt new technology capable of tracking and tracing product as it moves through the distribution chain. Several states have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state, make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical studies and other activities, and/or register their sales representatives, as well as to prohibit pharmacies and other healthcare entities from providing certain physician prescribing data to pharmaceutical companies for use in sales and marketing, and to prohibit certain other sales and marketing practices. All of the Company’s activities are potentially subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws. 29 Table of Contents The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “Healthcare Reform Act”) included new provisions requiring most pharmaceutical manufacturers to publicly report most payments or other transfers of value to physicians starting on March 31, 2013. These relationships may come under increased scrutiny as a result of these new provisions and publication of payments. The Healthcare Reform Act also includes civil penalties if a manufacturer fails to comply with the reporting requirements. Patent Term Restoration and Marketing Exclusivity Depending upon the timing, duration and specifics of the FDA approval of the use of the Company’s pharmaceutical product candidates, some of the Company’s products covered by U.S. patents may be eligible for limited patent term extension under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, commonly referred to as the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. The Hatch-Waxman Amendments permit a patent restoration term of up to five years as compensation for patent term lost during product development and the FDA regulatory review process. However, patent term restoration cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the product’s approval date. The patent term restoration period is generally one-half the time between the effective date of an IND and the submission date of an NDA plus the time between the submission date of an NDA and the approval of that application. Only one patent applicable to an approved pharmaceutical product is eligible for the extension and the application for the extension must be submitted prior to the expiration of the patent unless an extension is obtained. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, in consultation with the FDA, reviews and renders a decision on the application for any patent term extension or restoration. In the future, the Company may be able to apply for extension of patent term for one of its currently owned or licensed patents to add patent life beyond its current expiration date, depending upon the expected length of the clinical studies and other factors involved in the filing of the relevant NDA. Market exclusivity provisions under the U.S. Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act can also delay the submission or the approval of certain applications of other companies seeking to reference another company’s NDA. Currently seven years of reference product exclusivity are available to pharmaceutical products designated as Orphan Drugs, during which the FDA may not approve generic products relying upon the reference product’s data. Pediatric exclusivity is another type of regulatory market exclusivity in the U.S. Pediatric exclusivity, if granted, adds six months to existing exclusivity periods and patent terms. This six-month exclusivity, which runs from the end of other exclusivity protection or patent term, may be granted based on the voluntary completion of pediatric clinical studies in accordance with an FDA-issued “Written Request” for such a clinical study. Pharmaceutical Coverage, Pricing and Reimbursement Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of any pharmaceutical product candidates for which the Company obtains regulatory approval. In the U.S. and markets in other countries, sales of any products for which the Company receives regulatory approval for commercial sale will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. Third-party payors include government payors such as Medicare and Medicaid, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. The process for determining whether a payor will provide coverage for a pharmaceutical product may be separate from the process for setting the price or reimbursement rate that the payor will pay for the pharmaceutical product. Third-party payors may limit coverage to specific pharmaceutical products on an approved list, or formulary, which might not include all of the FDA-approved pharmaceutical products for a particular indication. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price and examining the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services, in addition to their safety and efficacy. The Company may need to conduct expensive pharmaco-economic 30 Table of Contents studies in order to demonstrate the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of its products, in addition to the costs required to obtain the FDA approvals. The Company’s pharmaceutical product candidates may not be considered medically necessary or cost-effective. A payor’s decision to provide coverage for a pharmaceutical product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved. Adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable the Company to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on the Company’s investment in product development. In addition, in the U.S. there is a growing emphasis on comparative effectiveness research, both by private payors and by government agencies. To the extent other drugs or therapies are found to be more effective than the Company’s products, payors may elect to cover such therapies in lieu of the Company’s products and/or reimburse the Company’s products at a lower rate. In 2003, the U.S. government enacted legislation providing a partial prescription drug benefit for Medicare recipients, which became effective at the beginning of 2006. Government payment for some of the costs of prescription drugs may increase demand for any products for which the Company receives marketing approval. However, to obtain payments under this program, the Company would be required to sell products to Medicare recipients through prescription drug plans operating pursuant to this legislation. As part of their participation in the Medicare prescription drug program, these plans negotiate discounted prices for prescription drugs and will likely do so for the Company’s products. Federal, state and local governments in the U.S. continue to consider legislation to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including the cost of prescription drugs. Future legislation and regulations could limit payments for pharmaceuticals such as the drug candidates that the Company is developing. Different pricing and reimbursement schemes exist in other countries. In the European Community, governments influence the price of pharmaceutical products through their pricing and reimbursement rules and control of national healthcare systems that fund a large part of the cost of those products to consumers. Some jurisdictions operate positive and negative list systems under which products may only be marketed once a reimbursement price has been agreed upon. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval, some of these countries may require the completion of clinical studies that compare the cost-effectiveness of a particular pharmaceutical product candidate to currently available therapies. Other member states allow companies to fix their own prices for medicines, but monitor and control company profits. The downward pressure on healthcare costs in general, particularly prescription drugs, has become very intense. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the entry of new products. In addition, in some countries, cross-border imports from low-priced markets exert a commercial pressure on pricing within a country. The marketability of any pharmaceutical product candidates for which the Company receives regulatory approval for commercial sale may suffer if the government and third-party payors fail to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement. In addition, emphasis on managed care in the U.S. has increased and the Company expects this will continue to increase the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing. Coverage policies and third-party reimbursement rates may change at any time. Even if favorable coverage and reimbursement status is attained for one or more products for which Celator receives regulatory approval, less favorable coverage policies and reimbursement rates may be implemented in the future. International Regulation In addition to regulations in the U.S., there are a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical studies and commercial sales and distribution of the Company’s future product candidates. Whether or not FDA approval is obtained for a product, approval of a product must be obtained by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before clinical studies or marketing of the product can commence in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country, and the time may be 31 Table of Contents longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical studies, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country. In addition, certain regulatory authorities in select countries may require the Company to repeat previously conducted preclinical and/or clinical studies under specific criteria for approval in their respective country which may delay and/or increase the cost of approval in certain markets targeted for approval by Celator. Under European Union regulatory systems, marketing applications for pharmaceutical products to treat cancer must be submitted under a centralized procedure to the EMA. The centralized procedure provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization that is valid for all European Union member states. The EMA also has designations for Orphan Drugs which, if applicable, can provide for faster review, lower fees and more access to advice during drug development. While the marketing authorization in the European Union is centralized, the system for clinical studies (application, review and requirements) are handled by each individual country. Approval to run a clinical study in one country does not guarantee approval in any other country. The pharmaceutical industry in Canada is regulated by Health Canada. A New Drug Submission (“NDS”) is the equivalent of a U.S. NDA and must be filed to obtain approval to market a pharmaceutical product in Canada. Marketing regulations and reimbursement are subject to national and provincial laws. In Japan, applications for approval to manufacture and market new drugs must be approved by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare. Nonclinical and clinical studies must meet the requirements of Japanese laws. Results from clinical studies conducted outside of Japan must be supplemented with at least a bridging clinical study conducted in Japan. Non-Japanese companies must appoint a Market Authorization Holder or create a Japanese subsidiary and have it certified as a Market Authorization Holder that applies for approval of the drug. Further marketing regulations including manufacturing licenses and reimbursement are subject to other national laws. In addition to regulations in Europe, Canada, Japan and the U.S., there are a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical studies, commercial distribution and reimbursement of future product candidates which the Company may be subject to as it pursues regulatory approval and commercialization of CPX-351 or any future product candidates internationally. Corporate Information The Company’s principal executive offices are located at 303B College Road East, Princeton, NJ 08540. Celator’s telephone number is (609) 243-0123. Celator is headquartered in Princeton, NJ, and its principal operations are located in Princeton, NJ and Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. The Company uses the name “Celator” and its logo as its trademarks. This Form 10-K annual report may contain the trademarks and trade names of other entities and those trademarks and trade names are the property of their respective owners. Employees and Locations As of December 31, 2012, Celator has 18 full-time employees, of whom eight hold Ph.D.’s or M.D.’s in their respective areas of expertise. Recent Developments On March 1, 2013, the Company entered into an office lease with Princeton South Investors, LLC, for the lease of 4,785 square feet office space located in Ewing, New Jersey. The Company expects to occupy the space commencing in Summer 2013. The initial term of the agreement is five years, and the agreement may be terminated earlier or extended in accordance with the terms of the agreement. 32 Table of Contents Under the Agreement, the Company will have the contractual payment obligations as shown in the table below commencing July 1, 2013. Time Period PeriodTotalPaymentAmount Months 1-5 $ — Months 6-12 $ 78,853 Months 13-24 $ 137,569 Months 25-36 $ 139,961 Months 37-48 $ 142,354 Months 49-60 $ 144,746 The Company will be obligated to maintain a letter of credit from a bank with respect to its security deposit obligations in the amount of $250,000 during the first year of the Agreement, which amount will be reduced by $50,000 per year on each of December 1, 2014, 2015 and 2016 and by $75,000 on December 1, 2017, which amounts are subject to adjustment to lower amounts upon completion of a qualified financing. 33 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risks and uncertainties should be carefully considered. If any of the following occurs, the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. An investment in the Company’s securities is speculative in nature, involves a high degree of risk and should not be made by an investor who cannot bear the economic risk of its investment for an indefinite period of time and who cannot afford the loss of its entire investment. RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY All product candidate development timelines and projections in this Form 10-K annual report are based on the assumption of further financing. If the Company is unable to raise substantial additional funding, it will be unable to complete the development and potential commercialization of CPX-351. The Company has sufficient funds to conduct its proposed plan of operations to the middle of the first quarter of 2014, based on a cash balance of $9.4 million as of February 28, 2013 and the receipt of a milestone payment in the first quarter of 2013 from LLS for the enrollment of the first patient in the Phase 3 study of CPX-351 and the sale of net operating loss carryforwards through the NJEDA program. The Company estimates that it still needs to raise an additional $27.0 million to complete the Phase 3 study to its overall primary endpoint target of the first quarter of 2016. In the event the Company does not successfully raise funds in subsequent financing(s), its product development activities will necessarily be curtailed commensurate with the magnitude of the shortfall or may cease altogether. If the Company’s product development activities are slowed or stopped, the Company will be unable to meet the timelines and projections outlined in this Form 10-K annual report. Failure to progress its product candidates as anticipated will have a negative effect on the Company’s business, future prospects and ability to obtain further financing on acceptable terms (if at all), and the value of the enterprise. The Company expects the planned overall survival analysis of the Phase 3 study of CPX-351 in patients with sAML to occur in first quarter of 2016, for which the Company will need to raise substantial additional funds. To the extent that the costs of the planned study exceed current estimates or the survival analysis does not occur within the currently anticipated timeframe and the Company is unable to raise sufficient additional capital to cover such additional costs, the Company will need to reduce operating expenses, enter into a collaboration or other similar arrangement with respect to development and/or commercialization rights to CPX-351, outlicense intellectual property rights to CPX-351, sell assets or effect a combination of the above. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to effect any of such transactions on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, the Company will need to raise substantial additional capital to: • complete the development and potential commercialization of CPX-351; • fund additional clinical studies of CPX-351 and seek regulatory approvals; • expand its development activities; • implement additional internal systems and infrastructure; and • build or access commercialization and additional manufacturing capabilities and supplies. The Company’s future funding requirements and sources will depend on many factors, including but not limited to: • the rate of progress and cost of its clinical studies, including in particular the Phase 3 study of CPX-351; 34 Table of Contents • the need for additional or expanded clinical studies; • the timing, economic and other terms of any licensing, collaboration or other similar arrangement into which the Company may enter; • the costs and timing of seeking and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals; • the extent of the Company’s other development activities; • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and • the effect of competing technological and market developments. Celator has incurred losses since its inception and anticipates that the Company will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. There is substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern without additional financing. The Company may not ever achieve or sustain profitability. Celator is not profitable and has incurred losses in each year since its inception in 1999. Celator’s net losses for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were $10.9 million and $14.2 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2012, Celator had an accumulated deficit of $111.6 million. Although the Company believes that it will have sufficient funds to conduct its proposed plan of operations to the middle of the first quarter of 2014, there is substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern beyond that time without additional financing. The Company’s independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG LLP, has included an explanatory paragraph in its report with respect to this uncertainty. KPMG LLP’s report could impact the Company’s ability to raise funds from new investors. Celator does not currently have any products that have been approved for marketing, and it continues to incur substantial development and general and administrative expenses related to its operations. Therefore, for the foreseeable future, the Company will have to fund all of its operations and capital expenditures from cash on hand and amounts raised in this and future offerings. The Company may not be able to raise capital when needed. The Company expects to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and the Company expects these losses to increase significantly as the Phase 3 study of CPX-351 progresses, as the Company seeks regulatory approvals for CPX-351 and as the Company commercializes CPX-351, if approved. The Company’s losses, among other things, have caused and will continue to cause its stockholders’ equity and working capital to decrease. To date, Celator has derived substantially all of its revenue from a research collaboration agreement with Cephalon, Inc., a sponsored research agreement with LLS, participation in the federal government’s Qualifying Therapeutic Discovery Project and the NJEDA’s Technology Business Tax Certificate Transfer Program. As of March 31, 2012, the research collaboration agreement with Cephalon, Inc. had been completed. Moreover, the Company cannot assure that it will enter into any new collaboration agreement(s) that will result in research revenue for the Company. The Company does not anticipate that it will generate revenue from the sale of products for the foreseeable future. The Company’s ability to become profitable depends upon its ability to generate significant continuing revenues. In the absence of additional sources of capital, which may not be available to the Company on acceptable terms, or at all, the development of CPX-351 or future product candidates may be reduced in scope, delayed or terminated. If the Company’s product candidates or those of its collaborators fail in clinical studies or do not gain regulatory approval, or if its future products, if any, do not achieve market acceptance, the Company may never become profitable. 35 Table of Contents Raising additional funds by issuing securities or through licensing or lending arrangements may cause dilution to the Company’s existing stockholders, restrict the Company’s operations or require it to relinquish proprietary rights. The Company may raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or licensing arrangements. To the extent that the Company raises additional capital by issuing equity securities, the share ownership of existing stockholders will be diluted. Any future debt financing the Company enters into may involve covenants that restrict its operations, including limitations on its ability to incur liens or additional debt, pay dividends, redeem its stock, make certain investments and engage in certain merger, consolidation or asset sale transactions, among other restrictions. In addition, if the Company raises additional funds through licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to its product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to the Company. If adequate funds are not available, the Company’s ability to achieve profitability or to respond to competitive pressures will be significantly limited and it may be required to delay, significantly curtail or eliminate the development of one or more of its product candidates. The regulatory approval process is expensive, time-consuming and uncertain and may prevent the Company from obtaining approval for the commercialization of CPX-351 or future product candidates; the Company’s clinical studies for CPX-351 may not demonstrate safety or efficacy or lead to regulatory approval. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record-keeping, import, export, marketing, selling and distribution of product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in the U.S. and other countries, which regulations differ from country to country. In order to develop and potentially submit a New Drug Application (“NDA”) to the FDA, it is necessary to submit all information on the clinical, non-clinical, chemistry, manufacturing, controls and quality aspects of the product candidate. Neither the Company nor any potential collaboration partners are permitted to market CPX-351, or future products, if any, in the U.S. until the Company receives approval of an NDA from the FDA, or in any other country without the equivalent marketing approval from such country. The Company has not received marketing approval for CPX-351 in any jurisdiction. In addition, failure to comply with FDA and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory requirements may subject the Company to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions, product seizure or detention, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production, and refusal to approve pending NDAs, supplements to approved NDAs or their foreign equivalents. CPX-351 is vulnerable to the risks of failure inherent in the drug development process. The Company needs to conduct clinical studies and additional activities in order to demonstrate that CPX-351 is safe and effective to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Failure can occur at any stage of the development process, and successful preclinical studies and early clinical studies do not ensure that later clinical studies will be successful. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical studies, even after obtaining promising results in earlier studies. If the clinical studies result in unacceptable toxicity or lack of efficacy, the Company may have to terminate them. If clinical studies are halted, or if they do not show that CPX-351 is safe and effective in the indications for which the Company is seeking regulatory approval, future growth may be limited. 36 Table of Contents The Company does not know whether the Phase 3 clinical study, or any other future clinical studies with CPX-351 or any of its product candidates, will be completed on schedule, or at all, or whether its ongoing or planned clinical studies will begin or progress on the time schedule it anticipates. The commencement and completion of future clinical studies could be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including • delays or failures to raise additional funding; • results of meetings with the FDA and/or other regulatory bodies; • a limited number of, and competition for, suitable patients with particular types of cancer for enrollment in its clinical studies; • delays or failures in obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical study; • delays or failures in reaching acceptable clinical study agreement terms or clinical study protocols with prospective sites; • delays or failures in obtaining sufficient clinical materials; • delays or failures in obtaining approval from independent institutional review boards to conduct a clinical study at prospective sites; • failure of patients to complete the clinical study; • unforeseen safety issues; • lack of efficacy during clinical studies; or • inability or unwillingness of patients or clinical investigators to follow its clinical study protocols. In addition, the Company’s clinical studies may be suspended or terminated at any time by the FDA, other regulatory authorities, or the Company itself. Any failure to complete or significant delay in completing clinical studies for the Company’s product candidates could harm the Company’s financial results and the commercial prospects for the product candidates. Regulatory approval of an NDA or an NDA supplement or a foreign equivalent is not guaranteed, and the approval process is expensive, uncertain and may take years. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. As in the U.S., the regulatory approval process in Europe and in other countries is a lengthy and challenging process. The FDA and other regulatory bodies can delay, limit or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons, including: • the Company may be unable to demonstrate to the satisfaction of regulatory authorities that a product candidate is safe and effective for any indication; • regulatory authorities may not find the data from preclinical studies and clinical studies sufficient or may differ in the interpretation of the data; • the FDA or foreign regulatory authority might not approve the Company’s or the Company’s third-party manufacturers’ processes or facilities for clinical or commercial product; • the FDA or foreign regulatory authority may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations; 37 Table of Contents • the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with the design or implementation of the Company’s clinical studies; • the FDA or foreign regulatory authority may not accept clinical data from studies that are conducted in countries where the standard of care is potentially different from that in the U.S.; • the results of clinical studies may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities for approval; • the Company may be unable to demonstrate that a product candidate’s clinical and other benefits outweigh its safety risks; and • the data collection from clinical studies of the Company’s product candidates may not be sufficient to support the submission of a NDA or other submission or to obtain regulatory approval in the U.S. or elsewhere. In addition, events raising questions about the safety of certain marketed pharmaceuticals may result in increased caution by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in reviewing new pharmaceuticals based on safety, efficacy or other regulatory considerations and may result in significant delays in obtaining regulatory approvals. The Company relies on third-party distributors and manufacturers for the supply of CPX-351 and the control arm drugs of cytarabine and daunorubicin for the Phase 3 study. Cytarabine was previously in short supply throughout the world, and daunorubicin was in short supply in the U.S. as well. There is no guarantee that the Company can procure sufficient quantities to supply the Phase 3 study. The Company procures control arm drugs of cytarabine and daunorubicin for the Phase 3 study from third-party distributors. Cytarabine was recently in short supply throughout the world, although the FDA removed it from its drug shortages index in October 2011. Daunorubicin is currently on the FDA’s drug shortages index; however, in an update on February 1, 2013, the FDA reported that “Teva has ample supply available.” Clinical study site procurement of cytarabine and daunorubicin is necessary to complete the Phase 3 study. If sites are unable to procure the necessary supplies to support the Phase 3 study in a timely manner, the study will be delayed. Any significant delay could seriously harm the business. The Company relies on third parties, such as contract manufacturers, contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to manufacture the product and to conduct the Company’s planned clinical studies for CPX-351. If the third parties conducting the Company’s clinical studies do not perform their contractual duties or obligations, do not meet expected deadlines or need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to the Company’s clinical study protocols or for any other reason, the Company may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties and the clinical studies may be extended, delayed or terminated or may need to be repeated, and the Company may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize the product candidate. Prior to 2011, CPX-351 was manufactured in small batches for use in preclinical and clinical studies. In 2011, a different contract manufacturer was selected to produce CPX-351 at commercial scale and lyophilize the product. No assurance can be given that the process and product will not experience delays or setbacks as additional product is manufactured. If third parties upon which the Company relies to manufacture its supplies fail to obtain approval of the FDA, or other regulatory authorities, fail to provide the Company with sufficient quantities 38 Table of Contents of pharmaceutical product or fail to do so at acceptable quality levels or prices, the Company’s development and commercialization of any of its product candidates could be stopped, delayed or made less profitable. Celator’s CombiPlex products represent formulations with increased manufacturing risks associated with the complexities of producing drug delivery vehicles co-encapsulating two drugs that are maintained at a fixed ratio and, in the case of CPX-351, are provided in a freeze-dried format. The facilities used by contract manufacturers to manufacture the Company’s product candidates must be approved by the FDA pursuant to inspections that will be conducted only after the Company submits an NDA to the FDA, if at all. The Company does not control the manufacturing process of its product candidates and is completely dependent on its contract manufacturing partners for compliance with the FDA’s requirements for manufacture of finished pharmaceutical products. If the Company’s contract manufacturers cannot successfully manufacture material that conforms to its specifications and the FDA’s strict regulatory requirements of safety, purity and potency, the Company will not be able to secure and/or maintain FDA approval for its product candidates. In addition, the Company has no control over the ability of its contract manufacturers to maintain adequate quality control, quality assurance and qualified personnel. If its contract manufacturers cannot meet FDA standards, the Company may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, which would significantly impact its ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for or market its product candidates. No assurance can be given that its manufacturers can continue to make clinical and commercial supplies of CPX-351, or future product candidates, at an appropriate scale and cost to make it commercially feasible. In addition, the Company does not have the capability to package finished products for distribution to hospitals and other customers. Prior to commercial launch, the Company will enter into agreements with one or more alternate fill/finish pharmaceutical product suppliers so that the Company can ensure proper supply chain management once the Company is authorized to make commercial sales of its product candidates. If the Company receives marketing approval from the FDA, it intends to sell pharmaceutical product finished and packaged by such suppliers. Although the Company has entered into agreements with its current contract manufacturers and fill/finish suppliers for clinical trial material, it may be unable to maintain an agreement on commercially reasonable terms, which could have a material adverse impact upon its business. In most cases, the Company’s manufacturing partner is a single-source supplier. It is expected that the Company’s manufacturing partner will be a sole source supplier from a single site location for the foreseeable future. Given this, any disruption of supply from this partner could have a material, long-term impact on the Company’s ability to supply products for clinical studies or commercial sale. Additionally, the proprietary technology that supports the manufacture of CPX-351 is not easily transferrable, and it is expected that its contract manufacturer will be the sole supplier of CPX-351 at a single site for the foreseeable future. If the Company’s supplier does not deliver sufficient quantities of CPX-351 on a timely basis, or at all, and in accordance with applicable specifications, there could be a significant interruption of the Company’s supply of CPX-351, which would adversely affect clinical development and commercialization of the product. The Company’s products may be subject to technology risks that may restrict or prevent their development and commercialization. Developing products based on the Company’s technology platform, known as CombiPlex, is subject to development risks. CPX-351 represents the first injectable fixed ratio, drug delivery combination product that the FDA will be considering for approval. While the Company has attempted to address potential issues that may be unique to such a combination product, it is possible that the FDA may consider the studies performed by the Company to be deficient, resulting in a delay of approval or possibly a refusal decision. Also, while the Company believes that it has a patent portfolio protecting the CombiPlex technology and the Company’s product candidates, it is possible that a technology unknown presently by the Company may be developed that is able to deliver drug combinations in a manner that provides the benefits of CombiPlex without contravening any of the Company’s patents. 39 Table of Contents The failure to enroll patients in clinical studies may cause delays in developing CPX-351. The Company will encounter delays if it is unable to enroll enough patients to complete clinical studies of CPX-351, including the Phase 3 study. The Company’s Phase 3 study is intending to enroll 300 patients with sAML. Patient enrollment depends upon many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the number and nature of competing treatments and ongoing clinical studies of competing drugs for the same indication and the eligibility criteria for the study. Patients participating in the Company’s studies may elect to leave the studies and switch to alternative treatments that are available to the patients, either commercially or on an expanded access basis, or in other clinical studies. Competing treatments may include nucleoside analogs, anthracyclines, topoisomerase II inhibitors and hypomethylating agents. Moreover, when a product candidate is evaluated in multiple clinical studies simultaneously, patient enrollment in ongoing studies can be adversely affected if negative results are reported from the studies. In the Phase 3 study, CPX-351 is being tested in patients with sAML, which can be a difficult patient population to recruit. Because the results of preclinical studies and early clinical studies are not necessarily predictive of future results, any product candidate the Company advances, if any, in clinical studies may not have favorable results in later clinical studies or receive regulatory approval. Pharmaceutical development has inherent risk. The Company will be required to demonstrate through adequate and well-controlled clinical studies that CPX-351 and future product candidates, if any, are effective with a favorable benefit-risk profile for use in diverse populations for their target indications before the Company can seek regulatory approval for their commercial sale. Success in early clinical studies does not mean that later clinical studies will be successful because product candidates in later-stage clinical studies may fail to demonstrate sufficient safety or efficacy despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. Companies frequently suffer significant setbacks in advanced clinical studies, even after earlier clinical studies have shown promising results. In addition, there is typically an extremely high rate of attrition from the failure of pharmaceutical candidates proceeding through clinical studies. The Company believes that the research that has been performed, both pre-clinically and clinically, cannot by its nature provide conclusive evidence that the product provides a completely antagonism-free approach to AML treatment. The Company plans to conduct additional clinical studies with CPX-351, including the Phase 3 study. If the results from this study are significantly different from those found in the completed Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical studies of CPX-351, the Company will likely need to terminate or revise its clinical development plan, which could extend the time for conducting its development program and could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The in vitro and in vivo preclinical models utilized by the Company to guide selection of drug ratios for encapsulation and delivery in vivo using liposomes or nanoparticles may not be representative of the response tumor cells have to drug ratios in patients. The tumor cell lines used to test for drug ratio-dependent synergy in vitro are maintained under conditions that can change their response to anticancer drugs relative to how they behave in vivo. Similarly, the tumor cells growing in preclinical cancer models may not respond to anticancer drugs the way tumor cells respond in human patients. Accordingly, there is the risk that the drug ratios contained in the Company’s products may not be optimal for clinical activity. 40 Table of Contents Any product candidate the Company advances into clinical studies may cause unacceptable adverse events or have other properties that may delay or prevent the regulatory approval or commercialization of the product candidate or limit the commercial potential of the product candidate. Unacceptable adverse events caused by any of the Company’s product candidates could cause regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical studies and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications. This, in turn, could prevent the Company from commercializing the affected product candidate and generating revenues from its sale. To date, clinical studies using CPX-351 have demonstrated a toxicity profile that was deemed acceptable by the investigators performing such studies. Investigators will use CPX-351 to treat AML in patients older than age 60. In the pre-chemotherapy era AML invariably led to death from infections or major bleeding events within weeks to months of diagnosis. Active AML leads to death by producing a general shut down of hematopoietic function with loss of functional neutrophils and marked reductions in platelets and red blood cells. Loss of neutrophil function inevitably leads to risk of severe infections and loss of platelets leads to risk of major bleeding events. In this setting, physicians have traditionally accepted the risk of high rates of adverse events, including severe or life threatening but reversible adverse events, provided there is evidence of greater benefit in the form of objective response and prolonged survival. The balancing of risk and benefit occurs at the start of every treatment course, and every investigator understands that the risk of withholding potentially toxic but useful treatment is death from progressive AML within a short period of time. The Company has found that the toxicity profile of CPX-351 is acceptable to investigators for the following reasons: • it is similar to the safety profile of traditional 7+3 regimen treatment, considered the standard of care or initial treatment; • the 60-day mortality associated with CPX-351 was less than that observed with 7+3 regimen treatment (4.7% vs. 14.6% in newly diagnosed AML patients), indicating that the adverse events associated with CPX-351 treatment led to fewer deaths than standard of care treatment; and • the rate of response, event-free survival, and overall survival were similar to control for lower risk patients and superior to control for higher risk patients, particularly for patients with secondary AML. In summary, the adverse event profile is acceptable to investigators because no unacceptable adverse events have been encountered and the benefits of treatment appear to outweigh the risks. Adverse events experienced by 25% or more of patients receiving CPX-351 are as follows: rash, febrile neutropenia, nausea, diarrhea, pain, constipation, fatigue, bacteremia, pyrexia, chills, localized edema, decreased appetite, vomiting, cough, headache, dyspnea, epistaxis, stomatitis and hypokalemia. Adverse events experienced by 25% or more of patients receiving CPX-1 are as follows: diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, fatigue, neutropenia, anorexia, weight decreased, alopecia, abdominal pain, dehydration and constipation. Such interpretation may not be shared by future investigators or by the FDA and, even if deemed acceptable for specific oncology applications, such as the completed clinical studies, it may not be acceptable for diseases in other oncology settings. Additionally, the severity, duration and incidence of adverse events may differ in larger study populations. The toxicity of CPX-351 manufactured under different conditions is not known, and it is possible that additional and/or different adverse events may appear upon the human use of those formulations and those adverse events may arise with greater 41 Table of Contents frequency, intensity and duration than in the current formulation. If any of the Company’s product candidates cause unacceptable adverse events in clinical studies, the Company may not be able to obtain marketing approval and generate revenues from its sale. If any of the Company’s product candidates receives marketing approval and the Company or others later identify unacceptable adverse events caused by the product, a number of significant negative consequences could result, including: • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the affected product; • regulatory authorities may require a more significant clinical benefit for approval to offset the risk; • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements that could diminish the usage of the product or otherwise limit the commercial success of the affected product; • the Company may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical studies or change the labeling of the product; • the Company may choose to discontinue sale of the product; • the Company could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; • the Company may not be able to enter into collaboration agreements on acceptable terms and execute on the Company’s business model; and • the Company’s reputation may suffer. Any one or a combination of these events could prevent the Company from obtaining regulatory approval and achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the affected product, which in turn could delay or prevent the Company from generating any revenues from the sale of the affected product. The Company may experience delays in the commencement of its clinical studies with CPX-351 or future product candidates, or in the receipt of data from preclinical and clinical studies conducted by third parties, which could result in increased costs and delay its ability to pursue regulatory approval. Delays in the commencement of clinical studies and delays in the receipt of data from preclinical or clinical studies conducted by third parties could significantly impact the Company’s product development costs. Before the Company can initiate clinical studies in the U.S. for future product candidates, it must submit the results of preclinical testing, usually in animals, to the FDA as part of an Investigational New Drug (“IND”) submission, along with other information including information about product chemistry, manufacturing and controls and its proposed clinical study protocol for its product candidates. With CPX-351, a single Phase 1 clinical study was conducted and two randomized, controlled Phase 2 clinical studies were conducted in patients with AML. The rationale for the Phase 3 study is based on clinical study results from two Phase 2 studies, but results from earlier phase clinical studies do not guarantee the outcomes of later clinical studies. The Company currently plans to rely on data from third parties for the Phase 3 study of CPX-351. If receipt of the data is delayed for any reason, including reasons outside of the Company’s control, it will delay the Company’s plans for the Phase 3 study, and other clinical study plans. This, in turn, will delay the Company’s ability to make subsequent regulatory filings and ultimately, to commercialize its products if regulatory approval is obtained. 42 Table of Contents Potential conflicts of interest arising from relationships and any related compensation with respect to clinical studies could adversely affect the process. Principal investigators for the Company’s clinical studies may serve as scientific advisors or consultants to the Company from time to time and receive cash compensation in connection with such services. If these relationships and any related compensation result in perceived or actual conflicts of interest, the integrity of the data generated at the applicable clinical study site may be questioned or jeopardized. The Company may be subject to costly claims related to its clinical studies and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. Because the Company conducts clinical studies in humans, the Company faces the risk that the use of CPX-351 or future product candidates, if any, will result in adverse side effects. The Company cannot predict the possible harms or side effects that may result from its clinical studies. Although the Company has clinical study liability insurance for up to $10.0 million in aggregate, the Company’s insurance may be insufficient to cover any such events. There is also a risk that the Company may not be able to continue to obtain clinical study coverage on acceptable terms. In addition, the Company may not have sufficient resources to pay for any liabilities resulting from a claim excluded from, or beyond the limit of, the Company’s insurance coverage. There is also a risk that third parties that the Company has agreed to indemnify could incur liability. Any litigation arising from its clinical studies, even if the Company is ultimately successful, would consume substantial amounts of the Company’s financial and managerial resources and may create adverse publicity. If the Company’s competitors develop and market products that are more effective, safer or less expensive than CPX-351, the Company’s commercial opportunities may be negatively impacted. The life sciences industry is highly competitive, and the Company faces significant competition from many pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and possibly from academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions that are researching, developing and marketing products designed to address the treatment of cancer, including AML. Many of the Company’s competitors have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and drug development resources than the Company. Large pharmaceutical companies, in particular, have extensive experience in the clinical testing of, obtaining regulatory approvals for, and marketing of, drugs. New developments, including the development of other pharmaceutical technologies and methods of treating disease, occur in the pharmaceutical and life sciences industries at a rapid pace. These developments may render the Company’s product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. Compared to the Company, potential competitors may have substantially greater • research and development resources, including personnel and technology; • regulatory experience; • pharmaceutical development, clinical study and pharmaceutical commercialization experience; • experience and expertise in exploitation of intellectual property rights; and • capital resources. As a result of these factors, the Company’s competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their products more rapidly than the Company or may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limit the Company’s ability to develop or commercialize its product candidates. The Company’s competitors may also develop products for the treatment of AML that are more effective, 43 Table of Contents better tolerated, more useful and less costly than the Company’s products and may also be more successful in manufacturing and marketing their products. Potential competitors may succeed in obtaining approvals from the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities for their product candidates sooner than the Company does for its products. A key consideration when treating AML patients is whether the patient is suitable for intensive therapy. The standard of care for the treatment of newly diagnosed AML patients who can tolerate intensive therapy is cytarabine in combination with an anthracycline (i.e., daunorubicin) – for some patients, primarily those less than 60 years of age, a stem cell transplant could also be considered. The regimen of cytarabine in combination with an anthracycline has been the standard of care for decades. A patient not suitable for intensive therapy may be offered the option for low-intensity therapy such as low-dose cytarabine, azacitidine or decitabine or possibly intermediate intensity therapy such as clofarabine. It should be noted that, in the U.S., azacitidine, decitabine and clofarabine are not approved by the FDA for the treatment of AML patients. The initial focus for CPX-351 development is in patients who can tolerate intensive therapy. The Company is aware of products in development being studied for use as treatment options for AML patients. However, most of the products are being studied in different patient populations (i.e., relapsed or refractory patients, patients who are deemed unsuitable for intensive chemotherapy) than the intended Phase 3 study population with CPX-351. The list below shows some of the products of which the Company is aware being in late-stage development: • Sunesis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is developing vosaroxin in combination with cytarabine for patients with first relapse or refractory AML, for which a Phase 3 study is open for enrollment. • Cyclacel Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is developing sapacitabine, alternating cycles of treatment with decibaine (decitabine followed by sapacitabine), for elderly patients aged 70 years or older with newly diagnosed AML who are not candidates for, or have refused, induction chemotherapy, for which a Phase 3 study is open for enrollment. • Eisai Co., Ltd.’s, Dacogen (decitabine) is currently on the market because it was initially approved for use in another hematologic malignancy. Based on the Phase 3 study results, the FDA did not approve the use of the product in elderly patients aged 65 or older with newly diagnosed AML who are not considered candidates for induction therapy, but the European Commission did approve its use in this population. • Clavis Pharma ASA is developing elacytarabine, for patients with relapsed or refractory AML, for which a Phase 3 study has completed enrollment and top-line results are expected in the first-quarter of 2013. • Celgene Corporation’s Vidaza (azacitidine) has been approved by the European Commission for use in adults who cannot have a bone marrow transplant in patients with AML that has developed from myelodysplastic syndrome when the bone marrow consists of 20%-30% abnormal cells. The product is currently on the market in the U.S. because it was approved for use in another hematologic malignancy. The FDA has not approved this product for use in AML. A Phase 3 study in elderly patients aged 65 or older with newly diagnosed AML is ongoing, and patients are not currently being recruited. The Company will also face competition from these third parties in recruiting and retaining qualified personnel, establishing clinical study sites and enrolling patients for clinical studies. 44 Table of Contents The Company believes that its ability to successfully compete in the marketplace with CPX-351 and any future product candidates will depend on, among other things • the ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel to help the Company advance CPX-351 and future product candidates, if any; • the ability to develop novel products with attractive pharmaceutical properties and to secure, protect and maintain intellectual property rights based on the Company’s innovations; • the efficacy, safety and reliability of the product candidates; • the speed at which the Company develops its product candidates; • the ability to design and successfully execute appropriate clinical studies; • the ability to maintain a good relationship with regulatory authorities; • the ability to obtain, and the timing and scope of, regulatory approvals; • the ability to manufacture clinical trial supplies of CPX-351 and future products, if any; • the ability to manufacture and sell commercial quantities of future products to the market; and • acceptance of future products by physicians and other healthcare providers. CPX-351 is a small molecule therapeutic that will compete with other drugs and therapies currently used for AML, such as nucleoside analogs, anthracyclines, hypomethylating agents, inhibitors of topoisomerase II and other novel agents. Additionally, other products currently in development could become potential competitors of CPX-351, if the products are approved for marketing. The Company expects competition for CPX-351 for the treatment of AML to increase as additional products are developed and approved in various patient populations. If the competitors market products that are more effective, safer or less expensive than CPX-351 or its other future products, if any, or that reach the market sooner, the Company may not achieve substantial market penetration or commercial success. If any product candidate that the Company successfully develops does not achieve broad market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community, the revenues that it generates from its sales will be limited. Even if CPX-351 or any other product candidates receive regulatory approval, the products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community. Coverage and reimbursement of the Company’s product candidates by third-party payors, including government payors, generally is also necessary for commercial success. The degree of market acceptance of any of the Company’s approved products will depend upon a number of factors, including • the efficacy and safety, as demonstrated in clinical studies; • the risk/benefit profile of the Company’s products such as CPX-351; • the prevalence and severity of any side effects; • the clinical indications for which the product is approved; • acceptance by physicians, key members of the healthcare team at cancer centers and patients of the product as a safe and effective treatment; • the potential and perceived advantages of product candidates over alternative treatments; • the safety of product candidates seen in a broader patient group, including its use outside the approved indications; • the cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments; 45 Table of Contents • the timing of market introduction of competitive products; • the availability of adequate reimbursement and pricing by third parties and government authorities; • relative convenience and ease of administration; and • the effectiveness of the Company’s sales, marketing and distribution efforts. If any product candidate is approved but does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, hospitals, healthcare payors and patients, the Company may not generate sufficient revenue from these products and the Company may not become or remain profitable. Even if the Company receives regulatory approval for CPX-351, the Company will be subject to ongoing FDA and other regulatory obligations and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense and limit the Company’s ability to commercialize CPX-351. Any regulatory approvals that the Company or potential collaboration partners receive for CPX-351 or future product candidates, if any, may also be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing studies. In addition, even if approved, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for any product will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restrictions on the marketing of the product, and could include withdrawal of the product from the market. Regulatory policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of the Company’s product candidates. The Company cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the U.S. or abroad. If the Company is not able to maintain regulatory compliance, the Company might not be permitted to market CPX-351 or future products, if any, and the Company may not achieve or sustain profitability. If product liability lawsuits are brought against it, the Company may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of its product candidates. The Company faces an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of its product candidates in human clinical studies, and will face an even greater risk if it sells its product candidates commercially. An individual may bring a liability claim against the Company if one of its product candidates causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. If the Company cannot successfully defend itself against product liability claims, it will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in • decreased demand for its product candidates; • impairment to its business reputation; • withdrawal of clinical study participants; • costs of related litigation; • distraction of management’s attention from its primary business; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • the inability to commercialize its product candidates; and • loss of revenues. 46 Table of Contents The Company does carry product liability insurance for its clinical studies. Further, the Company intends to expand its insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if marketing approval is obtained for any of its product candidates. However, the Company may be unable to obtain this product liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms and with insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action or individual lawsuits relating to marketed pharmaceuticals. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against the Company could cause its stock price to decline and, if judgments exceed its insurance coverage, could decrease its cash and adversely affect its business. Reimbursement may be limited or unavailable in certain market segments for the Company’s product candidates, which could make it difficult for the Company to sell its products profitably. The Company intends to seek approval to market its future products in both the U.S. and in countries outside the U.S. If the Company obtains approval in one or more foreign countries, it will be subject to rules and regulations in those countries relating to its product. In some foreign countries, particularly in the European Union, the pricing of pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with government authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product candidate. In addition, market acceptance and sales of the Company’s product candidates will depend significantly upon the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for any of its product candidates and may be affected by existing and future healthcare reform measures. Government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which pharmaceuticals they will cover and reimburse and establish reimbursement levels. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including the third-party payor’s determination that use of a product is • a covered benefit under its health plan; • safe, effective and medically necessary; • appropriate for the specific patient; • cost-effective; and • neither experimental nor investigational. Obtaining coverage and reimbursement approval for a product from a government or other third-party payor is a time-consuming and costly process that could require the Company to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of its products to the payor. The Company may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to coverage and reimbursement. If reimbursement of the Company’s future products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, the Company may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. In both the U.S. and certain foreign countries, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the healthcare system that could impact the Company’s ability to sell its products profitably. In particular, the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 revised the payment methodology for many products reimbursed by Medicare, resulting in lower rates of reimbursement for many types of drugs, and added a prescription drug benefit to the Medicare program that involves commercial plans negotiating drug prices for their members. Since 2003, there have been a number of other legislative and regulatory changes to the coverage and reimbursement landscape for pharmaceuticals. Most recently, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, collectively, the “Affordable Care Act,” was enacted. The Affordable Care Act contains a number of provisions, including those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, the increased 47 Table of Contents use of comparative effectiveness research on healthcare products, reimbursement and fraud and abuse changes, all of which will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs. An expansion in the government’s role in the U.S. healthcare industry may further lower rates of reimbursement for pharmaceutical products. There have been, and likely will continue to be, legislative and regulatory proposals at the federal and state levels directed at broadening the availability of healthcare and containing or lowering the cost of healthcare products and services. The Company cannot predict the initiatives that may be adopted in the future. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of healthcare services to contain or reduce costs of healthcare may adversely affect • the demand for any products for which the Company may obtain regulatory approval; • the Company’s ability to set a price that it believes is fair for its products; • the Company’s ability to generate revenues and achieve or maintain profitability; • the level of taxes that the Company is required to pay; and • the availability of capital. In addition, governments may impose price controls, which may adversely affect profitability if products are sold in those countries. The Company expects to expand its development capabilities, and any difficulties hiring or retaining key personnel or managing this growth could disrupt the Company’s operations. The Company is highly dependent on the principal members of its development staff. Future growth will require the Company to continue to implement and improve its managerial, operational and financial systems and continue to retain, recruit and train additional qualified personnel, which may impose a strain on its administrative and operational infrastructure. The competition for qualified personnel in the biopharmaceutical field is intense. As of December 31, 2012, Celator has 18 full-time employees. The Company may need to expand its managerial, operational, financial and other resources in order to manage and fund its operations and clinical studies, continue its research and development activities, and commercialize its product candidates. The Company is highly dependent on the continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and specialized personnel required for the manufacture of its products, the clinical development of the product candidates and the potential commercialization of the product candidates. Due to limited resources, the Company may not be able to effectively manage any expansion of its operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. If the Company is unable to retain key personnel or manage its growth effectively, the Company may not be able to implement its business plan. The Company has, in the past, implemented workforce reductions. Depending on the Company’s need for additional funding and expense control, the Company may be required to implement further workforce and expense reductions in the future. Further workforce and expense reductions could result in reduced progress of the Company’s programs. In addition, the implementation of expense reduction programs may result in the diversion of efforts of the Company’s executive management team and other key employees, which could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company currently has no commercial organization (i.e., marketing, sales, distribution). If the Company is unable to develop a commercial infrastructure on its own or through collaborations with partners, the Company will not be successful in commercializing CPX-351. The Company currently has no commercial infrastructure (i.e., marketing, sales or distribution capabilities) for its product candidates and must build this infrastructure or make arrangements with third-parties 48 Table of Contents to perform these functions in order to commercialize its products. If the Company needs to establish this capability it will be expensive and time consuming. Any failure or delay in the development of this capability would adversely impact the commercialization of CPX-351 or future product candidates, if any. If the Company fails to comply with healthcare regulations, it could face substantial penalties and its business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition to FDA restrictions on the marketing of pharmaceutical products, several other types of state and federal laws have been applied to restrict certain marketing practices in the pharmaceutical and medical device industries in recent years, as well as consulting or other service agreements with physicians or other potential referral sources. These laws include anti-kickback statutes and false claims statutes that prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or, in return for, purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally-financed healthcare programs, and knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and any practices the Company adopts may not, in all cases, meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. Any challenge to its business practices under these laws could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company uses hazardous materials, and any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time-consuming or costly. The Company uses hazardous materials, which could be dangerous to human health and safety or to the environment. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and wastes. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental laws and regulations may impair the Company’s pharmaceutical development efforts. In addition, the Company cannot entirely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials or wastes. If one of the Company’s employees were to be accidentally injured from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials or wastes, the medical costs related to the employee’s treatment may be covered by its workers’ compensation insurance policy. However, the Company does not carry specific hazardous waste insurance coverage and its property and casualty and general liability insurance policies specifically exclude coverage for damages and fines arising from hazardous waste exposure or contamination. Accordingly, in the event of contamination or injury, the Company could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines in an amount exceeding its resources, and its operations could be adversely affected. 49 Table of Contents The Company is an “emerging growth company” and may elect to comply with reduced public company reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, which could make the Company’s common stock less attractive to investors. The Company is an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act enacted in April 2012. For as long as the Company continues to be an “emerging growth company,” the Company may choose to take advantage of exemptions from various public company reporting requirements. These exemptions include, but are not limited to, • not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; • reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in the Company’s periodic reports and proxy statements; and • exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. The Company can be an “emerging growth company” for up to five years after the first sale of its common equity securities pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, which the Company expects will be pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-8 or a resale registration statement on Form S-1. However, if certain events occur prior to the end of such five-year period, including if the Company becomes a “large accelerated filer,” its annual gross revenues exceed $1 billion or it issues more than $1 billion of non-convertible debt in any three-year period, the Company will cease to be an “emerging growth company” prior to the end of such five-year period. The Company cannot predict whether investors will find the Company’s common stock less attractive if it chooses to rely on these exemptions. If some investors find the Company’s common stock less attractive as a result of any choice the Company makes to reduce future disclosure, there may be a less active trading market for the Company’s common stock and its common stock price may be more volatile. The Company also qualifies at this time as a “smaller reporting company.” Many of the reduced disclosure obligations applicable to emerging growth companies apply to smaller reporting companies. Under the JOBS Act, “emerging growth companies” can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies, which is not available for smaller reporting companies. However, the Company is irrevocably electing not to avail itself of this extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, the Company will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies.” The Company will incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, particularly once the Company ceases to be an “emerging growth company,” and the Company’s management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a public reporting company, the Company will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that it did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and a national securities exchange on which the Company plans to seek to list its common stock for trading, have imposed various requirements on public companies, including establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and corporate governance practices. The Company’s management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase the Company’s legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time consuming and costly. For example, the Company expects that these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and 50 Table of Contents more expensive for the Company to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and the Company may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, the Company will be required to furnish a report by its management on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, including, once the Company ceases to be an “emerging growth company,” an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting issued by the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm. To achieve compliance with Section 404 within the prescribed time period, the Company will engage in a process to document and evaluate the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, which is both costly and challenging. In this regard, the Company will need to continue to dedicate internal resources, potentially engage outside consultants and adopt a detailed work plan to assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, continue steps to improve control processes as appropriate, validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented and implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. Despite the Company’s efforts, there is a risk that neither the Company nor, when required, its independent registered public accounting firm will be able to conclude within the prescribed timeframe that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is effective as required by Section 404. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of the Company’s financial statements. The Company expects that the additional reporting and other obligations imposed on the Company by these rules and regulations and compliance with evolving interpretations of new or changed legal requirements may cause the Company to incur higher costs as the Company revises current practices, policies and procedures, and may divert management time and attention from potential revenue-generating activities to compliance matters. If the Company’s efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, the Company’s reputation may also be harmed. Further, the Company’s board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, the Company may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm the Company’s business. Economic conditions may make it costly and difficult to raise additional capital. There has been turmoil in the world economy, which has led to volatility on the U.S. stock market and reduced credit availability. Investors have been unwilling to buy certain corporate stocks and bonds. If economic conditions continue to affect the capital markets, the Company’s ability to raise capital, via controlled equity facilities, debt facility or otherwise, may be adversely affected. The Company is exposed to risks related to foreign currency exchange rates. Some of the Company’s costs and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies. Most of the Company’s foreign expenses are associated with activities related to the planned Phase 3 study of CPX-351 that will occur outside of the U.S. When the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currency, the U.S. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated expense increases, and when the U.S. dollar strengthens against the foreign currency, the U.S. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated expense decreases. Consequently, changes in exchange rates, and in particular a weakening of the U.S. dollar, may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. 51 Table of Contents The Company may not be able to recover from any catastrophic event affecting its suppliers or facilities. While the Company’s suppliers have measures in place to minimize and recover from catastrophic events that may substantially destroy their capability to meet customer needs, these measures may not be adequate to recover production processes quickly enough to support critical timelines or market demands. These catastrophic events may include weather events such as tornadoes, earthquakes, floods or fires. In addition, these catastrophic events may render some or all of the products at the affected facilities unusable. RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANY’S INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY The Company’s success depends upon its ability to protect and enforce its proprietary technologies and its intellectual property, and third party intellectual property may limit or interfere with, or eliminate its ability to make, use and sell the Company’s potential products. The Company’s commercial success depends on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection for its product candidates and their formulations and uses, as well as successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges. If the Company fails to appropriately prosecute and maintain patent protection for these product candidates, its ability to develop and commercialize these product candidates may be adversely affected and the Company may not be able to prevent competitors from making, using and selling competing products. This failure to properly protect the intellectual property rights relating to these product candidates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The patent application process is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, and there can be no assurance that the Company or its partners will be successful in protecting its product candidates by obtaining and defending patents. These risks and uncertainties include the following: • the patent applications that the Company files may not result in any patents being issued; • patents that are or may be issued or in-licensed may be challenged, invalidated, modified, revoked or circumvented, or otherwise may not provide any competitive advantage; • the Company’s competitors may seek, or may already have obtained, patents that will limit, interfere with, or eliminate its ability to make, use, and sell the Company’s potential products either in the U.S. or in international markets; • there may be significant pressure on the U.S. government and other international governmental bodies to limit the scope of patent protection both inside and outside the U.S. for disease treatments that prove successful as a matter of public policy regarding worldwide health concerns; and • countries other than the U.S. may have less restrictive patent laws than those upheld by U.S. courts, allowing foreign competitors the ability to exploit these laws to create, develop and market competing products. In addition to patents and trademarks, the Company also relies on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. Although the Company has taken steps to protect its trade secrets and unpatented know-how, including entering into confidentiality agreements with third parties, and confidential information and inventions agreements with employees, consultants and advisors, third parties may still obtain this information or the Company may be unable to protect its rights. If any of these events occurs, or the Company otherwise loses protection for its trade secrets or proprietary know-how, the value of this information may be greatly reduced. 52 Table of Contents Patent protection and other intellectual property protection are crucial to the success of the Company’s business and prospects, and there is a substantial risk that such protections will prove inadequate. If the Company is sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time-consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation would have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company’s commercial success also depends upon its ability and the ability of any of its future collaborators to develop, manufacture, market and sell its product candidates without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications that are owned by third parties exist in the fields in which the Company is developing products. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to the Company, which may later result in issued patents that its product candidates or proprietary technologies may infringe. Similarly, there may be issued patents relevant to its product candidates of which the Company is not aware. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that the Company or any collaborators of the Company infringe the third party’s intellectual property rights, the Company may have to • obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; • abandon a potentially infringing product candidate or redesign its products or processes to avoid infringement; • pay substantial damages (including, in “extraordinary cases,” treble damages and attorneys’ fees), which the Company may have to pay if a court decides that the product or proprietary technology at issue infringes upon or violates the third party’s rights; • pay substantial royalties, fees and/or grant cross licenses to its technology; and/or • defend litigation or administrative proceedings which may be costly whether the Company wins or loses, and which could result in a substantial diversion of its financial and management resources. Other product candidates that the Company may in-license or acquire could be subject to similar risks and uncertainties. The Company may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce its patents or the patents of its licensors, which could be expensive, time-consuming and unsuccessful. Competitors may infringe the Company’s patents or the patents of the Company’s licensors. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, the Company may be required to file infringement claims, which typically are very expensive, time-consuming and disruptive of day-to-day business operations. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that one or more of the Company’s patents or patents of the Company’s licensors is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that the Company’s patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of the Company’s patents at risk of being invalidated, held unenforceable, or interpreted narrowly. The adverse result could also put related patent applications at risk of not issuing. 53 Table of Contents Interference proceedings provoked by third parties or brought by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (“PTO”) may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to the Company’s patents or patent applications or those of its collaborators or licensors. An unfavorable outcome could require the Company to cease using the related technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. The Company’s business could be harmed if the prevailing party does not offer it a license on commercially reasonable terms. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distract the Company’s management and other employees. The Company may not be able to prevent, alone or with its licensors, misappropriation of its trade secrets or confidential information, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the U.S. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of its confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of the Company’s Common Stock. The Company may be subject to claims that its consultants or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their other clients or former employers to the Company. As is common in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, the Company engages the services of consultants to assist it in the development of its product candidates. Many of these consultants were previously employed at, may have previously been, or are currently providing consulting services to, other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including the Company’s competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against the Company are currently pending, the Company may be subject to claims that these consultants or the Company has inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers or their former or current customers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if the Company is successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management and day-to-day business operations. RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S COMMON STOCK The price of the Company’s Common Stock may continue to be volatile, and the value of an investment in the Company’s Common Stock may decline. Factors that could cause continued volatility in the market price of the Company’s Common Stock include, but are not limited to • the Company’s ability to raise additional capital to carry through with clinical development plans and current and future operations and the terms of any related financing arrangement; • results from, and any delays in or discontinuance of, ongoing and planned clinical studies of CPX-351; • announcements of FDA non-approval of CPX-351, delays in filing regulatory documents with the FDA or other regulatory agencies or delays in the review process by the FDA or other foreign regulatory agencies; • announcements relating to restructuring and other operational changes; 54 Table of Contents • delays in the commercialization of CPX-351 or future products, if any; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; • issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; • developments or disputes concerning its intellectual property or other proprietary rights; • clinical and regulatory developments with respect to potential competitive products; • introduction of new products by competitors; • issues in manufacturing CPX-351 drug substance or drug product, or future products, if any; • market acceptance of CPX-351 or future products, if any; • actual and anticipated fluctuations in the Company’s quarterly operating results; • third-party healthcare reimbursement policies; • FDA or other U.S. or foreign regulatory actions affecting the Company or the pharmaceutical industry; • litigation or public concern about the safety of CPX-351 or future products, if any; • failure to develop or sustain an active and liquid trading market for the Company’s Common Stock; • sales of the Company’s Common Stock by its officers, directors or significant stockholders; and • additions or departures of key personnel. Provisions of Delaware law could delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to the Company’s stockholders, and could make it more difficult to change management. Delaware law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person who, together with its affiliates, owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of the Company’s voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of the Company. These provisions of Delaware law could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of the Company’s Common Stock. The ownership of the Company’s capital stock by the Company’s directors, executive officers and holders of more than 5% of the company’s capital stock is highly concentrated and will result in the Company’s non-affiliate stockholders having limited or no ability to influence corporate actions. The Company’s directors and executive officers and holders of more than 5% of the Company’s capital stock beneficially own approximately 95.3% of the Company’s outstanding capital stock including shares purchasable upon exercise of stock options and warrants. Accordingly, these stockholders, acting as a group, could have significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets or any other significant corporate transaction. Also, the Company’s non-affiliate stockholders will have limited or no ability to influence corporate actions. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of the Company’s Common Stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. 55 Table of Contents The Company has never paid dividends on its capital stock and the Company does not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The Company has never declared or paid cash dividends on its capital stock. The Company does not anticipate paying any cash dividends on its capital stock in the foreseeable future. The Company currently intends to retain all available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and growth of the Company’s business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of the Company’s Common Stock will be stockholders’ sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. The Company is at risk of securities class action litigation. Biotechnology companies have experienced greater than average stock price volatility in recent years. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price or liquidity of the Company’s Common Stock. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the issuer. If any of the Company’s stockholders were to bring such a lawsuit against the Company, the Company could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit and the attention of management would be diverted from the operation of the Company’s business. The Company’s Common Stock has no current trading market. The Company cannot assure that its Common Stock will be traded on a national securities exchange or quoted on any over-the-counter quotation system, which may make it more difficult for a public market to develop. No assurance can be given that the Company’s Common Stock will be listed on any securities exchange or quoted on any over-the-counter quotation system. The Company cannot assure that the Company will be able to meet the initial listing standards of any of the NASDAQ markets or any other stock exchange, or that it would be able to maintain a listing of the Common Stock on any of the NASDAQ markets or any other stock exchange. If the Company’s Common Stock is quoted on an over-the-counter system, an active public trading market may not develop, or be sustained, and an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of shares or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of the Company’s Common Stock. If the Company’s Common Stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in the Company’s securities may be adversely affected. The SEC has adopted regulations that generally define “penny stock” as an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The market price of the Company’s Common Stock will potentially be less than $5.00 per share and in such event would be a “penny stock” according to SEC rules, unless the Company is listed on a national securities exchange. Under these rules, broker-dealers that recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must comply with specific procedures. If the Company’s Common Stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in the Company’s securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of the Company’s securities may be depressed, and stockholders may find it more difficult to sell their securities. 56 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 