ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks associated with our business We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently incorporated development stage company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have an operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire an operating business. We will not generate any revenues until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. If we are forced to liquidate before a business combination and distribute the trust account, our public stockholders will receive less than $6.00 per share and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination within the prescribed time frames and are forced to liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation distribution will be less than $6.00 because of the expenses of the Offering, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking a business 8 Table of Contents combination. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants, which will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a business combination. If the net proceeds of the Offering not being placed in trust is insufficient to allow us to operate for at least the next 24 months, we may be unable to complete a business combination. We believe that the funds available to us outside of the trust account will be sufficient to allow us to operate for a minimum of 24 months from the date of the consummation of the Offering, assuming that a business combination is not consummated during that time. However, we cannot assure you that our estimates will be accurate. We could use a portion of the funds not being placed in trust to engage consultants to assist us with our search for a target business. We could also use a portion of the funds not being placed in trust as a down payment or to fund a “no-shop” provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to prevent a target businesses from “shopping” around for transactions with other companies on terms more favorable to such target businesses) with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we entered into such a letter of intent where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target business and were subsequently required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise), we may not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, a target business. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of the Offering are intended to be used to complete a business combination with an unidentified target business, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, since we will have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 and have filed a Current Report on Form 8-K, including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact with the SEC, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Because we are not subject to Rule 419, our units have been immediately tradable and we have a longer period of time to complete a business combination in certain circumstances than if we were subject to such rule. Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate a business combination, it may be more difficult for us to do so. Since August 2003, based upon publicly available information, over 49 similarly structured blank check companies have completed initial public offerings. Of these companies, only a limited number have consummated a business combination. Accordingly, there are approximately 43 blank check companies with more than approximately $2.4 billion in trust that are seeking to carry out a business plan similar to our business plan. Furthermore, there are likely to be more blank check companies filing registration statements for initial public offerings prior to our completion of a business combination. While some of those companies must complete a business combination in specific industries, a number of them may consummate a business combination in any industry they choose. Therefore, we may be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business plan similar to ours. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete for an attractive business combination. Additionally, because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time periods. If we are unable to find a suitable target business within such time periods, we will be forced to liquidate. 9 Table of Contents If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by stockholders will be less than $5.425 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses and other entities we engage execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements. Nor is there any guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over those of our public stockholders. We cannot assure you that the per-share distribution from the trust fund will not be less than $5.425, plus interest, due to such claims of such creditors. If we liquidate before the completion of a business combination and distribute the proceeds held in trust to our public stockholders, our founding stockholder, RPCP Investments, LLLP, has agreed that it will be personally liable to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of target businesses or vendors or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us. However, we cannot assure you that it will be able to satisfy those obligations. Since we have not yet selected any target business with which to complete a business combination, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the business’ operations. Because we have not yet identified a prospective target business, stockholders have no basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the target business’ operations. To the extent we complete a business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of such entities. Although our management will evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that they will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our units will ultimately prove to be more favorable to investors than a direct investment, if such opportunity were available, in a target business. Except for the limitation that a target business have a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of the acquisition, we will have virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective acquisition candidate. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 50,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. Although we have no commitment as of December 31, 2005, we are likely to issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: • may significantly reduce the equity interest of our stockholders; • may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock; 10 Table of Contents • will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Similarly, if we issue debt securities, it could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves are breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination and to be successful thereafter will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following a business combination. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination is dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The role of such individuals in the target business, however, cannot presently be ascertained. Although some of our key personnel, including Richard C. Rochon, Stephen J. Ruzika, Jack I. Ruff, Mario B. Ferrari and Robert C. Farenhem, may remain associated with the target business in senior management or advisory positions following a business combination, it is likely that some or all of the management of the target business will remain in place. Moreover, our key personnel will be able to remain with the company after the consummation of a business combination only if they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with the business combination, the terms of which, including the compensation to be paid to such individuals, would be determined at such time between the respective parties. However, we will not consider the ability of our current key personnel to remain with the company after the consummation of a business combination as a factor in determining whether to proceed with any potential business combination. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. This additional training could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. Our officers and directors will allocate their time to other businesses, thereby causing conflicts of interest in their allocation of time to our affairs. This conflict of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. All of our executive officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to devote 11 Table of Contents any specific number of hours to our affairs. If our executive officers’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Our officers, directors and their affiliates may become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to ours and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. None of our directors, officers or their affiliates has been or currently is a principal of, or affiliated with, a blank check company. However, our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which they owe fiduciary duties. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. All of our officers and directors indirectly own shares of our common stock which will not participate in liquidation distributions and, therefore, they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. All of our officers and directors indirectly own shares of our common stock that were issued prior to the Offering, but have waived their right to receive distributions with respect to those shares upon our liquidation if we are unable to consummate a business combination. Our directors, through an affiliate (CPACW, LLLP), have purchased 2,000,000 warrants in the open market. The shares indirectly owned by our officers and directors prior to the Offering and any warrants owned by our directors and officers will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our directors and officers may influence their motivation in timely identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination. Consequently, our directors’ and officers’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: • make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to sale; • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and 12 Table of Contents • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and stockholders may find it more difficult to sell our securities. Initially, we will only be able to complete one business combination, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business and a limited number of products or services. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $64.1 million which we may use to complete a business combination. Our initial business combination must be with a business with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such acquisition. Consequently, we will have the ability to complete only a single business combination at first, although this may entail simultaneous acquisitions of several closely related operating businesses. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: • solely dependent upon the performance of a single business; or • dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. Alternatively, if our business combination entails the simultaneous acquisitions of several operating businesses at the same time from different sellers, we would face additional risks. These risks may include difficulties and expenses incurred in connection with the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or products of the acquired companies into a single operating business. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, it could negatively impact our profitability and results of operations. The ability of our stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. When we seek stockholder approval of any business combination, we will offer each public stockholder (but not our founding stockholder, nor any of our officers and directors to the extent that they receive shares upon distribution from our existing stockholder or purchased any shares in the Offering or the aftermarket) the right to have his, her or its shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and completed. Such holder must both vote against such business combination and then exercise his, her or its conversion rights to receive a pro rata portion of the trust fund. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust fund for possible payment upon such conversion, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. Since we have no specific business combination under consideration, we have not taken any steps in furtherance of securing third party financing. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate a business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or we may end up having a leverage ratio that is not optimal for our business combination. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. 13 Table of Contents Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities with similar business objectives, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources and our financial resources will be relatively limited in comparison. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire with the net proceeds received from the Offering, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Furthermore, the obligation we have to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction. Additionally, our outstanding warrants and the future dilution they potentially represent may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of the Offering is sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, because we have not yet identified any prospective target business, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of the Offering prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination, the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business or the obligation to convert into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or our existing stockholder is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. Our existing stockholder controls a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Upon consummation of our offering, our founding stockholder, which is owned and controlled by our officers and directors, will own approximately 17.9% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock (assuming it does not purchase units in the Offering). Neither our existing stockholder, nor our officers and directors have indicated to us that they intend to purchase our securities in the Offering. Our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office until at least the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our existing 14 Table of Contents stockholder, because of its ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our existing stockholder will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of a business combination. In addition, our existing stockholder, officers and directors and their affiliates are not prohibited from purchasing units in the Offering or shares in the aftermarket. Any common stock acquired by our existing stockholder or our officers and directors in the offering or aftermarket will be considered part of the holdings of the public stockholders. They will have the same rights as other public stockholders with respect to such shares, including voting and conversion rights in connection with a potential business combination. Accordingly, they may vote such shares on a proposed business combination in any way they choose. We cannot assure you that our founding stockholder will not have considerable influence upon the vote in connection with a business combination. Our outstanding warrants and option may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock and increase the difficulty of effecting a business combination. In connection with the Offering, we issued warrants to purchase 23,000,000 shares of common stock as part of the units. We also issued an option to purchase 1,000,000 units to the representatives of the underwriters which, if exercised, will result in the issuance of an additional 1,000,000 shares of common stock and 2,000,000 warrants. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants and option could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business. Such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Therefore, our warrants and representatives’ option may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants and option could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. If, and to the extent, these warrants and option are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. If our founding stockholder exercises its registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our existing stockholder is entitled to make two demands that we register the resale of its shares of common stock at any time commencing three months prior to the date on which its shares are released from escrow. If our existing stockholder exercises its registration rights with respect to all of its shares of common stock, then there will be an additional 2,500,000 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of these additional shares of common stock trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination or will request a higher price for their securities because of the potential effect the exercise of such rights may have on the trading market for our common stock. 15 Table of Contents If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it more difficult for us to complete a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it more difficult for us to complete a business combination, including: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; and • restrictions on the issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us certain burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance policies and procedures and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. We do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may be invested by the trust agent only in United States “government securities” within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 having a maturity of 180 days or less, or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we were deemed to be subject to that act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense for which we have not allotted. We do not have any “independent” directors and will generally not have the benefit of independent directors examining our financial statements and the propriety of expenses incurred on our behalf and subject to reimbursement. All of our directors are also executive officers of ours. However, no salary or other compensation is paid to our officers and directors for services rendered by them on our behalf prior to or in connection with a business combination. Nevertheless, we do not have the benefit of any independent directors serving on an audit committee to review our financial statements or examine the propriety of expenses subject to reimbursement incurred on our behalf. There is no limit on the amount of out-of-pocket expenses that could be incurred, nor will there be any review of the reasonableness of the expenses by anyone other than our board of directors, which could include persons seeking reimbursement, or a court of competent jurisdiction if such reimbursement is challenged. Although we believe that all actions taken by our directors on our behalf will be in our best interests whether or not they are deemed to be “independent,” we cannot assure you that this will actually be the case. If actions are taken or expenses incurred that are actually not in our best interests, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations and the price of our securities. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 