Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risk factors should be read in connection with the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K, including Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and USOF’s financial statements and the related notes. 32 Risks Associated With Owning Direct or Indirect Interests in Oil Investing in oil interests subjects USOF to the risks of the crude oil industry and this could result in large fluctuations in the price of USOF’s units. USOF is subject to the risks and hazards of the crude oil industry because it invests in oil interests. The risks and hazards that are inherent in the oil industry may cause the price of oil to widely fluctuate. If USOF’s units accurately track the spot price of WTI light, sweet crude oil, then the price of its units may also fluctuate. The risks of crude oil drilling and production activities include the following: · no commercially productive crude oil or natural gas reservoirs may be found; · crude oil and natural gas drilling and production activities may be shortened, delayed or canceled; · the ability of an oil producer to develop, produce and market reserves may be limited by: · title problems, · political conflicts, including war, · weather conditions, · compliance with governmental requirements, · refinery capacity, and · mechanical difficulties or shortages or delays in the delivery of drilling rigs and other equipment; · decisions of the cartel of oil producing countries ( e.g. , OPEC, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries), to produce more or less oil; · increases in oil production due to price rises may make it more economical to extract oil from additional sources and may later temper further oil price increases; and · economic activity of users, as certain economies’ oil consumption increases ( e.g. , China, India) and as economies contract (in a recession or depression), oil demand and prices fall. The crude oil industry experiences numerous operating risks. These operating risks include the risk of fire, explosions, blow-outs, pipe failure, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards. Environmental hazards include oil spills, natural gas leaks, ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. 33 Crude oil operations also are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local regulations that materially affect operations. Matters regulated include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling and abandonment bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells and pooling of properties and taxation. At various times, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production. In order to conserve supplies of crude oil and natural gas, these agencies have restricted the rates of flow of crude oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity. Federal, state, and local laws regulate production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of crude oil and natural gas, by-products from crude oil and natural gas and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with crude oil and natural gas operations. The price of USOF’s units may be influenced by factors such as the short-term supply and demand for oil and the short-term supply and demand for USOF’s units. This may cause the units to trade at a price that is above or below USOF’s NAV per unit. Accordingly, changes in the price of units may substantially vary from the changes in the spot price of WTI light, sweet crude oil. If this variation occurs, then investors may not be able to effectively use USOF as a way to hedge against oil-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in oil. While it is expected that the trading prices of units will fluctuate in accordance with changes in USOF’s NAV, the prices of units may also be influenced by other factors, including the short-term supply and demand for oil and the units. There is no guarantee that the units will not trade at appreciable discounts from, and/or premiums to, USOF’s NAV. This could cause changes in the price of units to substantially vary from changes in the spot price of WTI light, sweet crude oil. This may be harmful to investors because if changes in the price of units vary substantially from changes in the spot price of WTI light, sweet crude oil, then investors may not be able to effectively use USOF as a way to hedge the risk of losses in their oil-related transactions or as a way to indirectly invest in oil. Changes in USOF’s NAV may not correlate with changes in the price of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract. If this were to occur, investors may not be able to effectively use USOF as a way to hedge against oil-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in oil. The General Partner endeavors to invest USOF’s assets as fully as possible in short-term Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil Interests so that the changes in NAV closely correlate with the changes in the price of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract. However, changes in USOF’s NAV may not correlate with the changes in the price of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract for several reasons as set forth below: · USOF (i) may not be able to buy/sell the exact amount of Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil Interests to have a perfect correlation with NAV; (ii) may not always be able to buy and sell Oil Futures Contracts or Other Oil Interests at the market price; (iii) may not experience a perfect correlation between the spot price of WTI light, sweet crude oil and the underlying investments in Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil Interests and Treasuries, cash and cash equivalents; and (iv) is required to pay brokerage fees and the management fee, which will have an effect on the correlation. · Short-term supply and demand for WTI light, sweet crude oil may cause the market price of the changes in the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract to vary from changes in USOF’s NAV if USOF has fully invested in Oil Futures Contracts that do not reflect such supply and demand and it is unable to replace such contracts with Oil Futures Contracts that do reflect such supply and demand. In addition, there are also technical differences between the two markets, e.g., one is a physical market while the other is a futures market traded on exchanges, that may cause variations between the spot price of oil and the prices of related futures contracts. · USOF plans to buy only as many Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil Interests that it can to get the changes in the NAV as close as possible to the price of the changes in Benchmark Oil Futures Contract. The remainder of its assets will be invested in Treasuries, cash and cash equivalents and will be used to satisfy initial margin and additional margin requirements, if any, and to otherwise support its investments in oil interests. Investments in Treasuries, cash and cash equivalents, both directly and as margin, will provide rates of return that will vary from changes in the value of the spot price of WTI light, sweet crude oil and the price of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract. 34 · In addition, because USOF incurs certain expenses in connection with its investment activities, and holds most of its assets in more liquid short-term securities for margin and other liquidity purposes and for redemptions that may be necessary on an ongoing basis, the General Partner is generally not able to fully invest USOF’s assets in Oil Futures Contracts or Other Oil Interests and there cannot be perfect correlation between changes in USOF’s NAV and the changes in the price of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract. · As USOF grows, there may be more or less correlation. For example, if USOF only has enough money to buy three Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts and it needs to buy four contracts to track the price of oil then the correlation will be lower, but if it buys 20,000 Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts and it needs to buy 20,001 contracts then the correlation will be higher. At certain asset levels, USOF may be limited in its ability to purchase the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract or other Oil Futures Contracts due to accountability levels imposed by the relevant exchanges. To the extent that USOF invests in these other Oil Futures Contracts or Other Oil Interests, the correlation with the Benchmark Oil Futures Contracts may be lower. If USOF is required to invest in other Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil Interests that are less correlated with the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract, USOF would likely invest in over-the-counter contracts to increase the level of correlation of USOF’s assets. Over-the-counter contracts entail certain risks described below under “Over-the-Counter Contract Risk.” · USOF may not be able to buy the exact number of Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil Interests to have a perfect correlation with the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract if the purchase price of Oil Futures Contracts required to be fully invested in such contracts is higher than the proceeds received for the sale of a Creation Basket on the day the basket was sold. In such case, USOF could not invest the entire proceeds from the purchase of the Creation Basket in such futures contracts (for example, assume USOF receives $6,679,000 for the sale of a Creation Basket and assume that the price of an Oil Futures Contract for WTI light, sweet crude oil is $66,800, then USOF could only invest in only 99 Oil Futures Contracts with an aggregate value of $6,613,200). USOF would be required to invest a percentage of the proceeds in Treasuries to be deposited as margin with the futures commission merchant through which the contract was purchased. The remainder of the purchase price for the Creation Basket would remain invested in cash and Treasuries as determined by the General Partner from time to time based on factors such as potential calls for margin or anticipated redemptions. If the trading market for Oil Futures Contracts is suspended or closed, USOF may not be able to purchase these investments at the last reported price for such investments. If changes in USOF’s NAV do not correlate with changes in the price of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract, then investing in USOF may not be an effective way to hedge against oil-related losses or indirectly invest in oil. The Benchmark Oil Futures Contract may not correlate with the spot price of WTI light, sweet, crude oil and this could cause the price of units to substantially vary from the spot price of WTI light, sweet crude oil. If this were to occur, then investors may not be able to effectively use USOF as a way to hedge against oil-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in oil. When using the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract as a strategy to track the spot price of WTI light, sweet crude oil, at best the correlation between changes in prices of such oil interests and the spot price can be only approximate. The degree of imperfection of correlation depends upon circumstances such as variations in the speculative oil market, supply of and demand for such oil interests and technical influences in oil futures trading. If there is a weak correlation between the oil interests and the spot price of WTI light, sweet, crude oil, then the price of units may not accurately track the spot price of WTI light, sweet crude oil and investors may not be able to effectively use USOF as a way to hedge the risk of losses in their oil-related transactions or as a way to indirectly invest in oil. USOF may experience a loss if it is required to sell Treasuries at a price lower than the price at which they were acquired. The value of Treasuries generally moves inversely with movements in interest rates. If USOF is required to sell Treasuries at a price lower than the price at which they were acquired, USOF will experience a loss. This loss may adversely impact the price of the units and may decrease the correlation between the price of the units, the price of USOF’s Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil Interests, and the spot price of WTI light, sweet crude oil. 35 Certain of USOF’s investments could be illiquid which could cause large losses to investors at any time or from time to time. USOF may not always be able to liquidate its positions in its investments at the desired price. It is difficult to execute a trade at a specific price when there is a relatively small volume of buy and sell orders in a market. A market disruption, such as a foreign government taking political actions that disrupt the market in its currency, its oil production or exports, or in another major export, can also make it difficult to liquidate a position. Alternatively, limits imposed by futures exchanges or other regulatory organizations, such as accountability levels, position limits and daily price fluctuation limits, may contribute to a lack of liquidity with respect to some commodity interests. Unexpected market illiquidity may cause major losses to investors at any time or from time to time. In addition, USOF has not and does not intend to establish a credit facility, which would provide an additional source of liquidity and instead will rely only on the Treasuries, cash and cash equivalents that it holds. The anticipated large value of the positions in certain investments, e.g., Oil Futures Contracts, or in negotiated over-the-counter contracts that the General Partner acquires or enters into for USOF, increases the risk of illiquidity. Such positions may be more difficult to liquidate at favorable prices and there is an additional risk that losses may be incurred during the period in which positions are being liquidated. The Other Oil Interests that USOF invests in may have a greater likelihood of being illiquid since they are contracts between two parties that take into account not only market risk, but also the relative credit, tax, and settlement risks under such contracts. In addition, such contracts have limited transferability that results from such risks and the contract’s express limitations. USOF from time to time also invests in Other Oil Interests as a result of the speculative position limits on the New York Mercantile Exchange or other exchanges. If the nature of hedgors and speculators in futures markets has shifted such that oil purchasers are the predominant hedgors in the market, USOF might have to reinvest at higher futures prices or choose Other Oil Interests. The changing nature of the hedgors and speculators in the oil market influences whether futures prices are above or below the expected future spot price. In order to induce speculators to take the corresponding long side of the same futures contract, oil producers must generally be willing to sell futures contracts at prices that are below expected future spot prices. Conversely, if the predominant hedgors in the futures market are the purchasers of the oil who purchase futures contracts to hedge against a rise in prices, then speculators will only take the short side of the futures contract if the futures price is greater than the expected future spot price of oil. This can have significant implications for USOF when it is time to reinvest the proceeds from a maturing futures contract into a new futures contract. While USOF does not intend to take physical delivery of oil under Oil Futures Contracts, physical delivery under such contracts impacts the value of the contracts. While USOF has not and does not intend to take physical delivery of oil under its Oil Futures Contracts, futures contracts are not required to be cash-settled, and it is possible to take delivery under these contracts. Storage costs associated with purchasing oil could result in costs and other liabilities that could impact the value of Oil Futures Contracts or Other Oil Interests. Storage costs include the time value of money invested in oil as a physical commodity plus the actual costs of storing the oil less any benefits from ownership of oil that are not obtained by the holder of a futures contract. In general, Oil Futures Contracts have a one-month delay for contract delivery and the back month (the back month is any future delivery month other than the spot month) includes storage costs. To the extent that these storage costs change for oil while USOF holds Oil Futures Contracts or Other Oil Interests, the value of the Oil Futures Contracts or Other Oil Interests, and therefore USOF’s NAV, may change as well. 36 The price relationship between the near month contract and the next to near month contract that compose the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract will vary and may impact both the total return over time of USOF’s NAV, as well as the degree to which its total return tracks other natural gas price indices’ total returns. The design of USOF's Benchmark Oil Futures Contract is such that every month it begins by using the near month contract to expire until the near month contract is within two weeks of expiration, when it will use the next month contract to expire as its benchmark contract and keeps that contract as its benchmark until it becomes the near month contract and close to expiration. In the event of an oil futures market where near month contracts trade at a higher price than next to near month contracts, a situation described as “backwardation” in the futures market occurs. Absent the impact of the overall movement in oil prices the value of the benchmark contract would tend to rise as it approaches expiration. As a result the total return of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract would tend to track higher. Conversely, in the event of an oil futures market where near month contracts trade at a lower price than next to near month contracts, a situation described as “contango” in the futures market occurs. Absent the impact of the overall movement in oil prices the value of the benchmark contract would tend to decline as it approaches expiration. As a result the total return of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract would tend to track lower. When compared to total return of other price indices, such as the spot price of oil, the impact of backwardation and contango may lead the total return of USOF’s NAV to vary significantly. In the event of a prolonged period of contango, and absent the impact of rising or falling oil prices, this could have a significant negative impact on USOF’s NAV and total return. Regulation of the commodity interests and energy markets is extensive and constantly changing; future regulatory developments are impossible to predict but may significantly and adversely affect USOF. The regulation of commodity interest transactions in the United States is a rapidly changing area of law and is subject to ongoing modification by government and judicial action. In addition, various national governments have expressed concern regarding the disruptive effects of speculative trading in the energy markets and the need to regulate the derivatives markets in general. The effect of any future regulatory change on USOF is impossible to predict, but could be substantial and adverse. Investing in USOF for purposes of hedging may be subject to several risks including the possibility of losing the benefit of favorable market movement. While USOF is not currently engaging in hedging strategies, participants in the oil or in other industries may use USOF as a vehicle to hedge the risk of losses in their oil-related transactions. There are several risks in connection with using USOF as a hedging device. While hedging can provide protection against an adverse movement in market prices, it can also preclude a hedgor’s opportunity to benefit from a favorable market movement. In a hedging transaction, the hedgor may be concerned that the hedged item will increase in price, but must recognize the risk that the price may instead decline and if this happens he will have lost his opportunity to profit from the change in price because the hedging transaction will result in a loss rather than a gain. Thus, the hedgor foregoes the opportunity to profit from favorable price movements. In addition, if the hedge is not a perfect one, the hedgor can lose on the hedging transaction and not realize an offsetting gain in the value of the underlying item being hedged. When using futures contracts as a hedging technique, at best, the correlation between changes in prices of futures contracts and of the items being hedged can be only approximate. The degree of imperfection of correlation depends upon circumstances such as: variations in speculative markets, demand for futures and for oil products, technical influences in futures trading, and differences between anticipated energy costs being hedged and the instruments underlying the standard futures contracts available for trading. Even a well-conceived hedge may be unsuccessful to some degree because of unexpected market behavior as well as the expenses associated with creating the hedge. In addition, using an investment in USOF as a hedge for changes in energy costs (e.g. , investing in oil, gasoline, or other fuels, or electricity) may not correlate because changes in the spot price of oil may vary from changes in energy costs because the spot price of oil does not reflect the refining, transportation, and other costs that may impact the hedgor’s energy costs. 37 An investment in USOF may provide little or no diversification benefits. Thus, in a declining market, USOF may have no gains to offset losses from other investments, and an investor may suffer losses on an investment in USOF while incurring losses with respect to other asset classes. Historically, Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil Interests have generally been non-correlated to the performance of other asset classes such as stocks and bonds. Non-correlation means that there is a low statistically valid relationship between the performance of futures and other commodity interest transactions, on the one hand, and stocks or bonds, on the other hand. However, there can be no assurance that such non-correlation will continue during future periods. If, contrary to historic patterns, USOF’s performance were to move in the same general direction as the financial markets, investors will obtain little or no diversification benefits from an investment in the units. In such a case, USOF may have no gains to offset losses from other investments, and investors may suffer losses on their investment in USOF at the same time they incur losses with respect to other investments. Variables such as drought, floods, weather, embargoes, tariffs and other political events may have a larger impact on oil prices and oil-linked instruments, including Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil Interests, than on traditional securities. These additional variables may create additional investment risks that subject USOF’s investments to greater volatility than investments in traditional securities. Non-correlation should not be confused with negative correlation, where the performance of two asset classes would be opposite of each other. There is no historic evidence that the spot price of oil and prices of other financial assets, such as stocks and bonds, are negatively correlated. In the absence of negative correlation, USOF cannot be expected to be automatically profitable during unfavorable periods for the stock market, or vice versa. USOF’s Operating Risks USOF is not a registered investment company so unitholders do not have the protections of the Investment Company Act of 1940. USOF is not an investment company subject to the Investment Company Act of 1940. Accordingly, investors do not have the protections afforded by that statute which, for example, requires investment companies to have a majority of disinterested directors and regulates the relationship between the investment company and its investment manager. USOF has a limited operating history so there is no extensive performance history to serve as a basis to evaluate an investment in USOF. USOF is new and has a limited operating history. Therefore, it does not have extensive past performance that could otherwise be used as a basis to evaluate an investment in USOF. Mr. Nicholas Gerber (discussed below) is the only principal that has any experience operating a commodity pool. Mr. Gerber ran the Marc Stevens Futures Index Fund (further discussed below) over 10 years ago. This fund combined investments in commodity futures and equity stock index futures and had under $1 million of assets. Mr. Gerber sold the fund to Newport Commodities. No other principals of the General Partner have operated a public or private commodity pool. The General Partner is leanly staffed and relies heavily on key personnel to manage trading activities. In managing and directing the day-to-day activities and affairs of USOF, the General Partner relies heavily on Mr. Nicholas Gerber, Mr. John Love and Mr. John Hyland (all discussed in greater detail below). If Mr. Gerber, Mr. Love or Mr. Hyland were to leave or be unable to carry out their present responsibilities, it may have an adverse effect on the management of USOF. Furthermore, Mr. Gerber, Mr. Love and Mr. Hyland are involved in the management of USNG. USNG is expected to be a public commodity pool designed to track the price movements of natural gas. Mr. Gerber and Mr. Love are also employed by Ameristock Corporation, a registered investment adviser that manages a public mutual fund. USOF estimates that Mr. Gerber will spend approximately 50% of his time on USOF and USNG matters, Mr. Love will spend approximately 70% of his time on USOF and USNG matters and Mr. Hyland will spend approximately 50% of his time on USOF and USNG matters. 38 Accountability levels, position limits, and daily price fluctuation limits set by the exchanges have the potential to cause a tracking error, which could cause the price of units to substantially vary from the price of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract and prevent investors from being able to effectively use USOF as a way to hedge against oil-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in oil. U.S. designated contract markets such as the New York Mercantile Exchange have established accountability levels and position limits on the maximum net long or net short futures contracts in commodity interests that any person or group of persons under common trading control (other as a hedge, which an investment in USOF is not) may hold, own or control. For example, the current accountability level for investments at any one time in Oil Futures Contracts (including investments in the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract) is 20,000. While this is not a fixed ceiling, it is a threshold above which the New York Mercantile Exchange may exercise greater scrutiny and control over an investor, including limiting an investor to holding no more than 20,000 Oil Futures Contracts. With regard to position limits, the New York Mercantile Exchange limits an investor from holding more than 2,000 net futures in the last 3 days of trading in the near month contract to expire. In addition to accountability levels and position limits, the New York Mercantile Exchange also sets daily price fluctuation limits on the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract. The daily price fluctuation limit establishes the maximum amount that the price of futures contracts may vary either up or down from the previous day’s settlement price. Once the daily price fluctuation limit has been reached in a particular Oil Futures Contract, no trades may be made at a price beyond that limit. In addition to accountability levels and position limits, the New York Mercantile Exchange also limits the amount of price fluctuation for Oil Futures Contracts. For example, the New York Mercantile Exchange imposes a $10.00 per barrel ($10,000 per contract) price fluctuation limit for Oil Futures Contracts. This limit is initially based off of the previous trading day’s settlement price. If any Oil Futures Contract is traded, bid, or offered at the limit for five minutes, trading is halted for five minutes. When trading resumes it begins at the point where the limit was imposed and the limit is reset to be $10.00 per barrel in either direction of that point. If another halt were triggered, the market would continue to be expanded by $10.00 per barrel in either direction after each successive five-minute trading halt. There is no maximum price fluctuation limits during any one trading session. All of these limits may potentially cause a tracking error between the price of the units and the price of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract.This may in turn prevent investors from being able to effectively use USOF as a way to hedge against oil-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in oil. USOF has not limited the size of its offering and is committed to utilizing substantially all of its proceeds to purchase Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil Interests. If USOF encounters accountability levels, position limits, or price fluctuation limits for oil contracts on the New York Mercantile Exchange, it has and will continue to, if permitted under applicable regulatory requirements, purchase futures contracts on the ICE Futures (formerly, the International Petroleum Exchange) or other exchanges that trade listed oil futures. The futures contracts available on the ICE Futures are generally comparable to the contracts on the New York Mercantile Exchange, but they may have different underlying commodities, sizes, deliveries, and prices. There are technical and fundamental risks inherent in the trading system the General Partner intends to employ. The General Partner’s trading system is quantitative in nature and it is possible that the General Partner might make a mathematical error. In addition, it is also possible that a computer or software program may malfunction and cause an error in computation. USOF and the General Partner may have conflicts of interest, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of unitholders. USOF and the General Partner may have inherent conflicts to the extent the General Partner attempts to maintain USOF’s asset size in order to preserve its fee income and this may not always be consistent with USOF’s objective of tracking changes in the spot price of WTI light, sweet crude oil. The General Partner’s officers, directors and employees do not devote their time exclusively to USOF. These persons are directors, officers or employees of other entities that may compete with USOF for their services. They could have a conflict between their responsibilities to USOF and to those other entities. 39 In addition, the General Partner’s principals, officers, directors or employees may trade futures and related contracts for their own account. A conflict of interest may exist if their trades are in the same markets and at the same time as USOF trades using the clearing broker to be used by USOF. A potential conflict also may occur if the General Partner’s principals, officers, directors or employees trade their accounts more aggressively or take positions in their accounts which are opposite, or ahead of, the positions taken by USOF. The General Partner has sole current authority to manage the investments and operations of USOF, and this may allow it to act in a way that furthers its own interests which may create a conflict with the best interests of investors. Limited partners have limited voting control, which will limit the ability to influence matters such as amendment of the LP Agreement, change in USOF’s basic investment policy, dissolution of this fund, or the sale or distribution of USOF’s assets. The General Partner serves as the general partner to both USOF and USNG. The General Partner may have a conflict to the extent that its trading decisions may be influenced by the effect they would have on USNG. These trading decisions may be influenced since the General Partner also serves as the general partner for USNG and is required to meet USNG’s investment objective as well as USOF’s. If the General Partner believes that a trading decision it made on behalf of USOF might (i) impede USNG from reaching its investment objective, or (ii) improve the likelihood of meeting USNG’s objective, then the General Partner may choose to change its trading decision for USOF, which could either impede or improve the opportunity for USOF from meeting its investment objective. In addition, the General Partner is required to indemnify the officers and directors of USNG, if the need for indemnification arises. This potential indemnification will cause the General Partner’s assets to decrease. If the General Partner’s other sources of income are not sufficient to compensate for the indemnification, then the General Partner may terminate and investors could lose their investment. Unitholders may only vote on the removal of the General Partner and limited partners have only limited voting rights. Unitholders and limited partners will not participate in the management of USOF and do not control the General Partner so they will not have influence over basic matters that affect USOF. Unitholders that have not applied to become limited partners have no voting rights, other than to remove the General Partner. Limited partners will have limited voting rights with respect to USOF’s affairs. Unitholders may remove the General Partner only if 66 2/3% of the unitholders elect to do so. Unitholders and limited partners will not be permitted to participate in the management or control of USOF or the conduct of its business. Unitholders and limited partners must therefore rely upon the duties and judgment of the General Partner to manage USOF’s affairs. The General Partner may manage a large amount of assets and this could affect USOF’s ability to trade profitably. Increases in assets under management may affect trading decisions. In general, the General Partner does not intend to limit the amount of assets of USOF that it may manage. The more assets the General Partner manages, the more difficult it may be for it to trade profitably because of the difficulty of trading larger positions without adversely affecting prices and performance and of managing risk associated with larger positions. USOF could terminate at any time and cause the liquidation and potential loss of an investor's investment and could upset the overall maturity and timing of an investor's investment portfolio. USOF may terminate at any time, regardless of whether USOF has incurred losses, subject to the terms of the LP Agreement. In particular, unforeseen circumstances, including the death, adjudication of incompetence, bankruptcy, dissolution, or removal of the General Partner could cause USOF to terminate unless a majority interest of the limited partners within 90 days of the event elects to continue the partnership and appoints a successor general partner, or the affirmative vote of a majority interest of the limited partners subject to certain conditions. However, no level of losses will require the General Partner to terminate USOF. USOF’s termination would cause the liquidation and potential loss of an investor's investment. Termination could also negatively affect the overall maturity and timing of an investor's investment portfolio. 40 Limited partners may not have limited liability in certain circumstances, including potentially having liability for the return of wrongful distributions. Under Delaware law, a limited partner might be held liable for our obligation as if it were a General Partner if the limited partner participates in the control of the partnership’s business and the persons who transact business with the partnership think the limited partner is the General Partner. A limited partner will not be liable for assessments in addition to its initial capital investment in any of our capital securities representing limited partnership interests. However, a limited partner may be required to repay to us any amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to it under some circumstances. Under Delaware law, we may not make a distribution to limited partners if the distribution causes our liabilities (other than liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and nonrecourse liabilities) to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that a limited partner who receives such a distribution and knew at the time of the distribution that the distribution violated the law will be liable to the limited partnership for the amount of the distribution for three years from the date of the distribution. With adequate notice, a limited partner may be required to withdraw from the partnership for any reason. If the General Partner gives at least fifteen (15) days’ written notice to a limited partner, then the General Partner may for any reason, in its sole discretion, require any such limited partner to withdraw entirely from the partnership or to withdraw a portion of his partner capital account. The General Partner may require withdrawal even in situations where the limited partner has complied completely with the provisions of the LP Agreement. USOF’s existing units are, and any units USOF issues in the future will be, subject to restrictions on transfer. Failure to satisfy these requirements will preclude a transferee from being able to have all the rights of a limited partner. No transfer of any unit or interest therein may be made if such transfer would (a) violate the then applicable federal or state securities laws or rules and regulations of the SEC, any state securities commission, the CFTC or any other governmental authority with jurisdiction over such transfer, or (b) cause USOF to be taxable as a corporation or affect USOF’s existence or qualification as a limited partnership. In addition, investors may only become limited partners if they transfer their units to purchasers that meet certain conditions outlined in the LP Agreement, which provides that each record holder or limited partner or unitholder applying to become a limited partner (each a record holder) may be required by the General Partner to furnish certain information, including that holder’s nationality, citizenship or other related status. A transferee who is not a U.S. resident may not be eligible to become a record holder or a limited partner if its ownership would subject USOF to the risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any of its assets under any federal, state or local law or regulation. All purchasers of USOF’s units, who wish to become limited partners or record holders, and receive cash distributions, if any, or have certain other rights, must deliver an executed transfer application in which the purchaser or transferee must certify that, among other things, he, she or it agrees to be bound by USOF’s LP Agreement and is eligible to purchase USOF’s securities. Any transfer of units will not be recorded by the transfer agent or recognized by us unless a completed transfer application is delivered to the General Partner or the Administrator. A person purchasing USOF’s existing units, who does not execute a transfer application and certify that the purchaser is eligible to purchase those securities acquires no rights in those securities other than the right to resell those securities. Whether or not a transfer application is received or the consent of the General Partner obtained, our units will be securities and will be transferable according to the laws governing transfers of securities. See “Transfer of Units.” USOF does not expect to make cash distributions. The General Partner intends to re-invest any realized gains in additional oil interests rather than distributing cash to limited partners. Therefore, unlike mutual funds, commodity pools or other investment pools that actively manage their investments in an attempt to realize income and gains from their investing activities and distribute such income and gains to their investors, USOF generally does not expect to distribute cash to limited partners. An investor should not invest in USOF if it will need cash distributions from USOF to pay taxes on its share of income and gains of USOF, if any, or for any other reason. Although USOF does not intend to make cash distributions, the income earned from its investments held directly or posted as margin may reach levels that merit distribution, e.g., at levels where such income is not necessary to support its underlying investments in Oil Interests and investors adversely react to being taxed on such income without receiving distributions that could be used to pay such tax. If this income becomes significant then cash distributions may be made. 41 There is a risk that USOF will not earn trading gains sufficient to compensate for the fees and expenses that it must pay and as such USOF may not earn any profit. USOF pays brokerage charges of approximately 0.15%, futures commission merchant fees of $3.50 per buy or sell, management fees of 0.50% of NAV on the first $1,000,000,000 of assets and 0.20% of NAV after the first $1,000,000,000 of assets, and over-the-counter spreads and extraordinary expenses ( i.e. expenses not in the ordinary course of business, including the indemnification of any person against liabilities and obligations to the extent permitted by law and required under the LP Agreement and under agreements entered into by the General Partner on USOF’s behalf and the bringing and defending of actions at law or in equity and otherwise engaging in the conduct of litigation and the incurring of legal expenses and the settlement of claims and litigation) that can not be quantified. These fees and expenses must be paid in all cases regardless of whether USOF’s activities are profitable. Accordingly, USOF must earn trading gains sufficient to compensate for these fees and expenses before it can earn any profit. USOF may incur higher fees and expenses upon renewing existing or entering into new contractual relationships. The clearing arrangements between the clearing brokers and USOF generally are terminable by the clearing brokers once the clearing broker has given USOF notice. Upon termination, the General Partner may be required to renegotiate or make other arrangements for obtaining similar services if USOF intends to continue trading in Oil Futures Contracts or Other Oil Interest contracts at its present level of capacity. The services of any clearing broker may not be available, or even if available, these services may not be available on the terms as favorable as those of the expired or terminated clearing arrangements. USOF may miss certain trading opportunities because it will not receive the benefit of the expertise of trading advisors. The General Partner does not employ trading advisors for USOF; however, it reserves the right to employ them in the future. The only advisor to USOF is the General Partner. A lack of trading advisors may be disadvantageous to USOF because it will not receive the benefit of a trading advisor’s expertise. An unanticipated number of redemption requests during a short period of time could have an adverse effect on the NAV of USOF. If a substantial number of requests for redemption of Redemption Baskets are received by USOF during a relatively short period of time, USOF may not be able to satisfy the requests from USOF’s assets not committed to trading. As a consequence, it could be necessary to liquidate positions in USOF’s trading positions before the time that the trading strategies would otherwise dictate liquidation. The failure or bankruptcy of a clearing broker could result in a substantial loss of USOF’s assets. Under CFTC regulations, a clearing broker maintains customers’ assets in a bulk segregated account. If a clearing broker fails to do so, or is unable to satisfy a substantial deficit in a customer account, its other customers may be subject to risk of loss of their funds in the event of that clearing broker’s bankruptcy. In that event, the clearing broker’s customers, such as USOF, are entitled to recover, even in respect of property specifically traceable to them, only a proportionate share of all property available for distribution to all of that clearing broker’s customers. USOF also may be subject to the risk of the failure of, or delay in performance by, any exchanges and markets and their clearing organizations, if any, on which commodity interest contracts are traded. From time to time, the clearing brokers may be subject to legal or regulatory proceedings in the ordinary course of their business. A clearing broker’s involvement in costly or time-consuming legal proceedings may divert financial resources or personnel away from the clearing broker’s trading operations, which could impair the clearing broker’s ability to successfully execute and clear USOF’s trades. 42 Third parties may infringe upon or otherwise violate intellectual property rights or assert that the General Partner has infringed or otherwise violated their intellectual property rights, which may result in significant costs and diverted attention. Third parties may utilize USOF’s intellectual property or technology, including the use of its business methods, trademarks and trading program software, without permission. The General Partner has a patent pending for USOF’s business method and it is registering its trademarks. USOF does not currently have any proprietary software. However, if it obtains proprietary software in the future, then any unauthorized use of USOF’s proprietary software and other technology could also adversely affect its competitive advantage. USOF may have difficulty monitoring unauthorized uses of its patents, trademarks, proprietary software and other technology. Also, third parties may independently develop business methods, trademarks or proprietary software and other technology similar to that of the General Partner or claim that the General Partner has violated their intellectual property rights, including their copyrights, trademark rights, trade names, trade secrets and patent rights. As a result, the General Partner may have to litigate in the future to protect its trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of other parties’ proprietary rights, defend itself against claims that it has infringed or otherwise violated other parties’ rights, or defend itself against claims that its rights are invalid. Any litigation of this type, even if the General Partner is successful and regardless of the merits, may result in significant costs, divert its resources from USOF, or require it to change its proprietary software and other technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. The success of USOF depends on the ability of the General Partner to accurately implement trading systems, and any failure to do so could subject USOF to losses on such transactions. The General Partner uses mathematical formulas built into a generally available spreadsheet program to decide whether it should buy or sell oil interests each day. Specifically, the General Partner uses the spreadsheet to make mathematical calculations and to monitor positions in oil interests and Treasuries and correlations to the spot price of WTI light, sweet crude oil. The General Partner must accurately process the spreadsheet’s outputs and execute the transactions called for by the formulas. In addition, USOF relies on the General Partner to properly operate and maintain its computer and communications systems. Execution of the formulas and operation of the systems are subject to human error. Any failure, inaccuracy or delay in implementing any of the formulas or systems and executing USOF’s transactions could impair its ability to achieve USOF’s investment objective. It could also result in decisions to undertake transactions based on inaccurate or incomplete information. This could cause substantial losses on transactions. USOF may experience substantial losses on transactions if the computer or communications system fails. USOF’s trading activities, including its risk management, depend on the integrity and performance of the computer and communications systems supporting them. Extraordinary transaction volume, hardware or software failure, power or telecommunications failure, a natural disaster or other catastrophe could cause the computer systems to operate at an unacceptably slow speed or even fail. Any significant degradation or failure of the systems that the General Partner uses to gather and analyze information, enter orders, process data, monitor risk levels and otherwise engage in trading activities may result in substantial losses on transactions, liability to other parties, lost profit opportunities, damages to the General Partner’s and USOF’s reputations, increased operational expenses and diversion of technical resources. If the computer and communications systems are not upgraded, as needed, USOF’s financial condition could be harmed. The development of complex computer and communications systems and new technologies may render the existing computer and communications systems supporting USOF’s trading activities obsolete. In addition, these computer and communications systems must be compatible with those of third parties, such as the systems of exchanges, clearing brokers and the executing brokers. As a result, if these third parties upgrade their systems, the General Partner will need to make corresponding upgrades to continue effectively its trading activities. USOF’s future success will depend on USOF’s ability to respond to changing technologies on a timely and cost-effective basis. 43 USOF depends on the reliable performance of the computer and communications systems of third parties, such as brokers and futures exchanges, and may experience substantial losses on transactions if they fail. USOF depends on the proper and timely function of complex computer and communications systems maintained and operated by the futures exchanges, brokers and other data providers that the General Partner uses to conduct trading activities. Failure or inadequate performance of any of these systems could adversely affect the General Partner’s ability to complete transactions, including its ability to close out positions, and result in lost profit opportunities and significant losses on commodity interest transactions. This could have a material adverse effect on revenues and materially reduce USOF’s available capital. For example, unavailability of price quotations from third parties may make it difficult or impossible for the General Partner to use its proprietary software that it relies upon to conduct its trading activities. Unavailability of records from brokerage firms may make it difficult or impossible for the General Partner to accurately determine which transactions have been executed or the details, including price and time, of any transaction executed. This unavailability of information also may make it difficult or impossible for the General Partner to reconcile its records of transactions with those of another party or to accomplish settlement of executed transactions. The occurrence of a terrorist attack, or the outbreak, continuation or expansion of war or other hostilities could disrupt USOF’s trading activity and materially affect USOF’s profitability. The operations of USOF, the exchanges, brokers and counterparties with which USOF does business, and the markets in which USOF does business could be severely disrupted in the event of a major terrorist attack or the outbreak, continuation or expansion of war or other hostilities. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and the war in Iraq, global anti-terrorism initiatives and political unrest in the Middle East and Southeast Asia continue to fuel this concern. Risk of Leverage and Volatility If the General Partner permits USOF to become leveraged, investors could lose all or substantially all of their investment if USOF’s trading positions suddenly turn unprofitable. Commodity pools’ trading positions in futures contracts or other commodity interests are typically required to be secured by the deposit of margin funds that represent only a small percentage of a futures contract’s (or other commodity interests’) entire face value. This feature permits commodity pools to “leverage” their assets by purchasing or selling futures contracts (or other commodity interests) with an aggregate value in excess of the commodity pool’s assets. While this leverage can increase the pool’s profits, relatively small adverse movements in the price of the pool’s futures contracts can cause significant losses to the pool. While the General Partner does not currently leverage USOF’s assets, it is not prohibited from doing so under the LP Agreement or otherwise. Over-the-Counter Contract Risk Over-the-counter transactions are subject to little, if any, regulation. A portion of USOF’s assets may be used to trade over-the-counter oil interest contracts, such as forward contracts or swap or spot contracts. Over-the-counter contracts are typically traded on a principal-to-principal basis through dealer markets that are dominated by major money center and investment banks and other institutions and are essentially unregulated by the CFTC. Investors therefore do not receive the protection of CFTC regulation or the statutory scheme of the Commodity Exchange Act in connection with this trading activity by USOF. The markets for over-the-counter contracts rely upon the integrity of market participants in lieu of the additional regulation imposed by the CFTC on participants in the futures markets. The lack of regulation in these markets could expose USOF in certain circumstances to significant losses in the event of trading abuses or financial failure by participants. 44 USOF will be subject to credit risk with respect to counterparties to over-the-counter contracts entered into by USOF or held by special purpose or structured vehicles. USOF faces the risk of non-performance by the counterparties to the over-the-counter contracts. Unlike in futures contracts, the counterparty to these contracts is generally a single bank or other financial institution, rather than a clearing organization backed by a group of financial institutions. As a result, there will be greater counterparty credit risk in these transactions. A counterparty may not be able to meet its obligations to USOF, in which case USOF could suffer significant losses on these contracts. If a counterparty becomes bankrupt or otherwise fails to perform its obligations due to financial difficulties, USOF may experience significant delays in obtaining any recovery in a bankruptcy or other reorganization proceeding. USOF may obtain only limited recovery or may obtain no recovery in such circumstances. USOF may be subject to liquidity risk with respect to its over-the-counter contracts. Over-the-counter contracts may have terms that make them less marketable than Oil Futures Contracts. Over-the-counter contracts are less marketable because they are not traded on an exchange, do not have uniform terms and conditions, and are entered into based upon the creditworthiness of the parties and the availability of credit support, such as collateral, and in general, they are not transferable without the consent of the counterparty. These conditions diminish the ability to realize the full value of such contracts. Risk of Trading in International Markets Trading in international markets would expose USOF to credit and regulatory risk. The General Partner invests primarily in Oil Futures Contracts, a significant portion of which are traded on United States exchanges including the New York Mercantile Exchange. However, a portion of USOF’s trades take place on markets and exchanges outside the United States. Some non-U.S. markets present risks because they are not subject to the same degree of regulation as their U.S. counterparts. None of the CFTC, NFA, or any domestic exchange regulates activities of any foreign boards of trade or exchanges, including the execution, delivery and clearing of transactions, nor has the power to compel enforcement of the rules of a foreign board of trade or exchange or of any applicable non-U.S. laws. Similarly, the rights of market participants, such as USOF, in the event of the insolvency or bankruptcy of a non-U.S. market or broker are also likely to be more limited than in the case of U.S. markets or brokers. As a result, in these markets, USOF has less legal and regulatory protection than it does when it trades domestically. In some of these non-U.S. markets, the performance on a contract is the responsibility of the counterparty and is not backed by an exchange or clearing corporation and therefore exposes USOF to credit risk. Trading in non-U.S. markets also leaves USOF susceptible to swings in the value of the local currency against the U.S. dollar. Additionally, trading on non-U.S. exchanges is subject to the risks presented by exchange controls, expropriation, increased tax burdens and exposure to local economic declines and political instability. An adverse development with respect to any of these variables could reduce the profit or increase the loss earned on trades in the affected international markets. 45 International trading activities subject USOF to foreign exchange risk. The price of any non-U.S. futures, options on futures or other commodity interest contract and, therefore, the potential profit and loss on such contract, may be affected by any variance in the foreign exchange rate between the time the order is placed and the time it is liquidated, offset or exercised. As a result, changes in the value of the local currency relative to the U.S. dollar may cause losses to USOF even if the contract traded is profitable. USOF’s international trading would expose it to losses resulting from non-U.S. exchanges that are less developed or less reliable than United States exchanges. Some non-U.S. exchanges may be in a more developmental stage so that prior price histories may not be indicative of current price dynamics. In addition, USOF may not have the same access to certain positions on foreign trading exchanges as do local traders, and the historical market data on which General Partner bases its strategies may not be as reliable or accessible as it is for U.S. exchanges. Tax Risk An investor's tax liability may exceed the amount of distributions, if any, on its units. Cash or property will be distributed at the sole discretion of the General Partner, and the General Partner currently does not intend to make cash or other distributions with respect to units. Investors will be required to pay U.S. federal income tax and, in some cases, state, local, or foreign income tax, on their allocable share of USOF’s taxable income, without regard to whether they receive distributions or the amount of any distributions. Therefore, the tax liability of an investor with respect to its units may exceed the amount of cash or value of property (if any) distributed. An investor's allocable share of taxable income or loss may differ from its economic income or loss on its units. Due to the application of the assumptions and conventions applied by USOF in making allocations for tax purposes and other factors, an investor's allocable share of USOF’s income, gain, deduction or loss may be different than its economic profit or loss from its units for a taxable year. This difference could be temporary or permanent and, if permanent, could result in it being taxed on amounts in excess of its economic income. Items of income, gain, deduction, loss and credit with respect to units could be reallocated if the IRS does not accept the assumptions and conventions applied by USOF in allocating those items, with potential adverse consequences for an investor. The U.S. tax rules pertaining to partnerships are complex and their application to large, publicly traded partnerships such as USOF is in many respects uncertain. USOF applies certain assumptions and conventions in an attempt to comply with the intent of the applicable rules and to report taxable income, gains, deductions, losses and credits in a manner that properly reflects unitholders’ economic gains and losses. These assumptions and conventions may not fully comply with all aspects of the Internal Revenue Code (“Code”) and applicable Treasury Regulations, however, and it is possible that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service will successfully challenge our allocation methods and require us to reallocate items of income, gain, deduction, loss or credit in a manner that adversely affects investors. If this occurs, investors may be required to file an amended tax return and to pay additional taxes plus deficiency interest. 46 We could be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, which may substantially reduce the value of the units. USOF has received an opinion of counsel that, under current U.S. federal income tax laws, USOF will be treated as a partnership that is not taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, provided that (i) at least 90 percent of USOF’s annual gross income consists of “qualifying income” as defined in the Code, (ii) USOF is organized and operated in accordance with its governing agreements and applicable law and (iii) USOF does not elect to be taxed as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. Although the General Partner anticipates that USOF will satisfy the “qualifying income” requirement for all of its taxable years, that result cannot be assured. USOF has not requested and will not request any ruling from the IRS with respect to its classification as a partnership not taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to successfully assert that USOF is taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes in any taxable year, rather than passing through its income, gains, losses and deductions proportionately to unitholders, USOF would be subject to tax on its net income for the year at corporate tax rates. In addition, although the General Partner does not currently intend to make distributions with respect to units, any distributions would be taxable to unitholders as dividend income. Taxation of USOF as a corporation could materially reduce the after-tax return on an investment in units and could substantially reduce the value of the units. Legal Risks Representatives of the New York Mercantile Exchange have notified USOF of its belief that USOF is engaging in unauthorized use of such Exchange’s service marks and settlement prices. USOF invests primarily in Oil Futures Contracts, and particularly in Oil Futures Contracts traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Representatives of the New York Mercantile Exchange have at various times asserted varying claims regarding USOF’s operations and the Exchange’s service marks and settlement prices of oil futures contracts traded on the Exchange. The New York Mercantile Exchange initially claimed that USOF’s use of the Exchange’s service marks would cause confusion as to USOF’s source, origin, sponsorship or approval, and constitute infringement of the Exchange’s trademark rights and unfair competition and dilution of the Exchange’s marks. In response to these claims, the General Partner changed USOF’s name. In addition, USOF expressly disclaims any association with the Exchange or endorsement of USOF by the Exchange and acknowledges that “NYMEX” and “New York Mercantile Exchange” are registered trademarks of such Exchange. The General Partner has also engaged in discussions with the New York Mercantile Exchange regarding a possible license agreement. In this regard, USOF received a letter from the Exchange dated March 29, 2006 (“March 29th Letter”). The March 29th Letter was in response to USOF’s request for additional information in connection with the negotiation of the possible license agreement. In the March 29th Letter, the Exchange stated that it would cause the cessation of any market data vendor’s provision of New York Mercantile Exchange settlement prices to USOF and/or take other action to prevent USOF from using any New York Mercantile Exchange settlement prices unless USOF enters into a license agreement with the Exchange, or has indicated in writing that it will cease from using any Exchange settlement prices. USOF will continue to seek an amicable resolution to this situation. It is evaluating the current draft of the license agreement in view of the March 29th letter but is also taking into account a recent New York federal district court decision against the NYMEX that found under similar circumstances that NYMEX’s intellectual property rights, including those related to its settlement prices, were significantly limited. USOF and the General Partner have retained separate counsel to represent them in this matter. At this time, USOF is unable to determine what the outcome from this matter will be. There could be a number of consequences. Under the license agreement currently being negotiated, USOF would be required to pay a license fee to the New York Mercantile Exchange for the use of its settlement prices. Also, if the resolution or lack of resolution of this matter results in a material restriction on, or significant additional expense associated with, the use of the New York Mercantile Exchange’s oil futures contract settlement prices, USOF may be required to invest to a greater degree than currently anticipated in Oil Futures Contracts traded on commodity exchanges other than the New York Mercantile Exchange and Other Oil Interests. These or other consequences may adversely affect USOF’s ability to achieve its investment objective. 47 Others may also notify USOF of intellectual property rights that could adversely impact USOF. Separately, Goldman, Sachs & Co. (“Goldman Sachs”) sent USOF a letter on March 17, 2006, providing USOF notice under 35 U.S.C. Section 154(d) of two pending United States patent applications, Publication Nos. 2004/0225593A1 and 2006/0036533A1. Both patent applications are generally directed to a method and system for creating and administering a publicly traded interest in a commodity pool. In particular, the Abstract of each patent application defines a means for creating and administering a publicly traded interest in a commodity pool that includes the steps of forming a commodity pool having a first position in a futures contract and a corresponding second position in a margin investment, and issuing equity interest of the commodity pool to third party investors. USOF Units are equity interests in a publicly traded commodity pool. In addition, USOF will directly invest in futures contracts and hold other investments to be used as margin for its future contract positions. If patents were to be issued to Goldman Sachs based upon these patent applications as currently drafted, and USOF continued to operate as currently contemplated after the patents were issued, claims against USOF and the General Partner for infringement of the patents may be made by Goldman Sachs. However, as these patent applications are pending and have not been substantively examined by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, it is uncertain at this time what subject matter will be covered by the claims of any patent issuing on one of these applications, should a patent issue at all. Under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. § 154(d), Goldman Sachs may seek damages in the form of a reasonable royalty from the date the Units are publicly offered for sale to the date one of their cited patent applications issues as a U.S. Patent if, and only if, the invention as claimed in the issued patent is substantially identical to the invention as claimed in the published patent application. To obtain a reasonable royalty under 35 U.S.C. § 154(d), one of Goldman Sachs’s patents must issue and then it must be proved that post-issuance acts or systems of USOF infringe a valid claim of the issued patent, and that the infringed claim is substantially identical to one of the claims in the corresponding published application. If at the time a Goldman Sachs patent issues, USOF does not infringe the claims of the issued patent based on its current design or through modifications made prior to issuance, or if any infringed issued claim is not substantially identical to a published claim, then Goldman Sachs will not be able to obtain a reasonable royalty under 35 U.S.C. § 154(d). At this time neither of Goldman Sachs’s patent applications have been substantively examined by an examiner at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office nor are they currently being considered for examination on an expedited basis under a Petition to Make Special, and considering that both have been placed in Class 705 for examination, which has an average pendency of approximately 44-45 months to issuance (or abandonment) and an issuance rate of approximately 11% in 2004, it is likely that neither application will issue within the next two years. Nonetheless, USOF currently is reviewing the Goldman Sachs published patent applications, and is engaged in discussions with Goldman Sachs regarding their pending applications and USOF’s own pending patent application. At this time, due in part to the requirements of 35 U.S.C. § 154(d) and the fact that the Goldman Sachs patent applications are pending and have not been issued as U.S. Patents, USOF is unable to determine what the outcome from this matter will be. See “Operating Risks — Third parties may infringe upon or otherwise violate intellectual property rights or assert that the General Partner has infringed or otherwise violated their intellectual property rights, which may result in significant costs and diverted attention.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 