Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risk factors should be read in connection with the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K, including Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and USOF’s financial statements and the related notes. Risks Associated With Investing Directly or Indirectly in Crude Oil Investing in Oil Interests subjects USOF to the risks of the crude oil industry and this could result in large fluctuations in the price of USOF’s units. USOF is subject to the risks and hazards of the crude oil industry because it invests in Oil Interests. The risks and hazards that are inherent in the crude oil industry may cause the price of crude oil to widely fluctuate. If the changes in percentage terms of USOF’s units accurately track the changes in percentage terms of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract or the spot price of crude oil, then the price of its units may also fluctuate. The exploration and production of crude oil are uncertain processes with many risks. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells for crude oil is often uncertain, and a number of factors can delay or prevent drilling operations or production of crude oil, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or repairs; • fires or other accidents; • adverse weather conditions; • pipeline ruptures, spills or other supply disruptions; and • shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment. Crude oil transmission, distribution, gathering, and processing activities involve numerous risks that may affect the price of crude oil. There are a variety of hazards inherent in crude oil transmission, distribution, gathering, and processing, such as leaks, explosions, pollution, release of toxic substances, adverse weather conditions (such as hurricanes and flooding), pipeline failure, abnormal pressures, uncontrollable flows of crude oil, scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, physical damage to the gathering or transportation system, and other hazards which could affect the price of crude oil. To the extent these hazards limit the supply or delivery of crude oil, crude oil prices will increase. Changes in the political climate could have negative consequences for crude oil prices. Tensions with Iran, the world’s fourth largest oil exporter, could put oil exports in jeopardy. Other global concerns include civil unrest and sabotage affecting the flow of oil from Nigeria, a large oil exporter. Meanwhile, friction continues between the governments of the United States and Venezuela, a major exporter of oil to the United States. Additionally, a series of production cuts by members of OPEC followed by a refusal to subsequently increase oil production have tightened world oil markets. Fluctuations in the reserve capacity of crude oil could impact future prices. In the past, a supply disruption in one area of the world was softened by the ability of major oil-producing nations such as Saudi Arabia to increase output to make up the difference. Now, much of that spare reserve capacity has been absorbed by increased demand. The current global economic downturn, however, has led to a decrease in the demand for oil that lasted through 2009 and a corresponding increase in spare capacities. According to the United States Government’s Energy Information Administration, global oil demand is expected to rise by 2 million barrels a day in 2012, to a total global consumption of 90 million barrels per day, up from 88 million barrels per day in 2011. 25 Table of Contents Daily changes in USOF’s per unit NAV may not correlate with daily changes in the price of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract. If this were to occur, investors may not be able to effectively use USOF as a way to hedge against crude oil-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in crude oil. USCF endeavors to invest USOF’s assets as fully as possible in short-term Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil-Related Investments so that the daily changes in percentage terms of the per unit NAV closely correlate with the daily changes in percentage terms in the price of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract. However, daily changes in USOF’s per unit NAV may not correlate with the daily changes in the price of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract for several reasons as set forth below: • USOF (i) may not be able to buy/sell the exact amount of Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil-Related Investments to have a perfect correlation with the per unit NAV; (ii) may not always be able to buy and sell Oil Futures Contracts or Other Oil-Related Investments at the market price; and (iii) is required to pay fees, including brokerage fees and the management fee, which will have an effect on the correlation. • Short-term supply and demand for light, sweet crude oil may cause the changes in the market price of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract to vary from the changes in USOF’s per unit NAV if USOF has fully invested in Oil Futures Contracts that do not reflect such supply and demand and it is unable to replace such contracts with Oil Futures Contracts that do reflect such supply and demand. • USOF sells and buys only as many Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil-Related Investments that it can to get the daily changes in percentage terms of the per unit NAV as close as possible to the daily changes in percentage terms in the price of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract. The remainder of its assets are invested in Treasuries, cash and/or cash equivalents and are used to satisfy initial margin and additional margin requirements, if any, and to otherwise support its investments in Oil Interests. Investments in Treasuries, cash and/or cash equivalents, both directly and as margin, provide rates of return that vary from changes in the price of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract. • In addition, because USOF incurs certain expenses in connection with its investment activities, and holds most of its assets in more liquid short-term securities for margin and other liquidity purposes and for redemptions that may be necessary on an ongoing basis, USCF is generally not able to fully invest USOF’s assets in Oil Futures Contracts or Other Oil-Related Investments and there cannot be perfect correlation between changes in USOF’s per unit NAV and changes in the price of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract. • As USOF grows, there may be more or less correlation. For example, if USOF only has enough money to buy three Oil Futures Contracts and it needs to buy four contracts to track the price of oil then the correlation will be lower, but if it buys 20,000 Oil Futures Contracts and it needs to buy 20,001 contracts then the correlation will be higher. At certain asset levels, USOF may be limited in its ability to purchase the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract or other Oil Futures Contracts due to accountability levels imposed by the relevant exchanges. To the extent that USOF invests in these other Oil Futures Contracts or Other Oil-Related Investments, the correlation with the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract may be lower. If USOF is required to invest in other Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil-Related Investments that are less correlated with the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract, USOF would likely invest in over-the-counter contracts to increase the level of correlation of USOF’s assets. Over-the-counter contracts entail certain risks described below under “Over-the-Counter Contract Risk.” • USOF may not be able to buy the exact number of Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil-Related Investments to have a perfect correlation with the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract if the purchase price of Oil Futures Contracts required to be fully invested in such contracts is higher than the proceeds received for the sale of a Creation Basket on the day the basket was sold. In such case, USOF could not invest the entire proceeds from the purchase of the Creation Basket in such futures contracts (for example, assume USOF receives $4,679,000 for the sale of a Creation Basket and assume that the price of an Oil Futures Contract for light, sweet crude oil is $46,800, then USOF could only invest in 99 Oil Futures Contracts with an aggregate value of $4,633,200). USOF would be required to invest a percentage of the proceeds in cash, Treasuries or other liquid securities to be deposited as margin with the futures commission merchant through which the contracts were purchased. The remainder of the purchase price for the Creation Basket would remain invested in Treasuries, cash and/or cash equivalents or other liquid securities as determined by USCF from time to time based on factors such as potential calls for margin or anticipated redemptions. If the trading market for Oil Futures Contracts is suspended or closed, USOF may not be able to purchase these investments at the last reported price. 26 Table of Contents If daily changes in USOF’s per unit NAV do not correlate with daily changes in the price of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract, then investing in USOF may not be an effective way to hedge against oil-related losses or indirectly invest in oil. The Benchmark Oil Futures Contract may not correlate with the spot price of light, sweet crude oil and this could cause changes in the price of the units to substantially vary from the changes in the spot price of light, sweet crude oil. If this were to occur, then investors may not be able to effectively use USOF as a way to hedge against crude oil-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in crude oil. In addition, the price relationship between the near month contract and the next month contract that compose the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract will vary and may impact both the total return over time of USOF’s NAV, as well as the degree to which its total return tracks other crude oil price indices’ total returns. When using the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract as a strategy to track the spot price of light, sweet crude oil, at best the correlation between changes in prices of such Oil Interests and the spot price of crude oil can be only approximate. The degree of imperfection of correlation depends upon circumstances such as variations in the speculative oil market, supply of and demand for such Oil Interests and technical influences in oil futures trading. If there is a weak correlation between the Oil Interests and the spot price of light, sweet crude oil, then even in situations where there is also tracking among the price of units, the per unit NAV of such units and Oil Interests, the price of units may not accurately track the spot price of light, sweet crude oil and investors may not be able to effectively use USOF as a way to hedge the risk of losses in their oil-related transactions or as a way to indirectly invest in crude oil. Backwardation and contango may increase USOF’s tracking error and/or negatively impact total return. The design of USOF’s Benchmark Oil Futures Contract is such that every month it begins by using the near month contract to expire until the near month contract is within two weeks of expiration, when, over a four day period, it transitions to the next month contract to expire as its benchmark contract and keeps that contract as its benchmark until it becomes the near month contract and close to expiration. In the event of a crude oil futures market where near month contracts trade at a higher price than next month to expire contracts, a situation described as “backwardation” in the futures market, then absent the impact of the overall movement in crude oil prices the value of the benchmark contract would tend to rise as it approaches expiration. As a result, the total return of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract would tend to track higher. Conversely, in the event of a crude oil futures market where near month contracts trade at a lower price than next month contracts, a situation described as “contango” in the futures market, then absent the impact of the overall movement in crude oil prices the value of the benchmark contract would tend to decline as it approaches expiration. As a result the total return of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract would tend to track lower. When compared to total return of other price indices, such as the spot price of crude oil, the impact of backwardation and contango may lead the total return of USOF’s per unit NAV to vary significantly. In the event of a prolonged period of contango, and absent the impact of rising or falling oil prices, this could have a significant negative impact on USOF’s per unit NAV and total return. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this annual report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the potential effects of contango and backwardation. USOF may experience a loss if it is required to sell Treasuries at a price lower than the price at which they were acquired. The value of Treasuries generally moves inversely with movements in interest rates. If USOF is required to sell Treasuries at a price lower than the price at which they were acquired, USOF will experience a loss. This loss may adversely impact the price of the units and may decrease the correlation among the price of units, the per unit NAV of units, the price of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract and Other Oil-Related Investments, and the spot price of light, sweet crude oil. 27 Table of Contents Certain of USOF’s investments could be illiquid which could cause large losses to investors at any time or from time to time. USOF may not always be able to liquidate its positions in its investments at the desired price. It is difficult to execute a trade at a specific price when there is a relatively small volume of buy and sell orders in a market. A market disruption, such as a foreign government taking political actions that disrupt the market in its currency, its crude oil production or exports, or in another major export, can also make it difficult to liquidate a position. Alternatively, limits imposed by futures exchanges or other regulatory organizations, such as accountability levels, position limits and daily price fluctuation limits, may contribute to a lack of liquidity with respect to some commodity interests. Unexpected market illiquidity may cause major losses to investors at any time or from time to time. In addition, USOF has not and does not intend at this time to establish a credit facility, which would provide an additional source of liquidity and instead relies only on the Treasuries, cash and/or cash equivalents that it holds. The anticipated large value of the positions in Oil Futures Contracts that USCF will acquire or enter into for USOF increases the risk of illiquidity. The Other Oil-Related Investments that USOF invests in, such as negotiated over-the-counter contracts, may have a greater likelihood of being illiquid since they are contracts between two parties that take into account not only market risk, but also the relative credit, tax, and settlement risks under such contracts. Such contracts also have limited transferability that results from such risks and from the contract’s express limitations. Because both Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil-Related Investments may be illiquid, USOF’s Oil Interests may be more difficult to liquidate at favorable prices in periods of illiquid markets and losses may be incurred during the period in which positions are being liquidated. If the nature of hedgers and speculators in futures markets has shifted such that crude oil purchasers are the predominant hedgers in the market, USOF might have to reinvest at higher futures prices or choose Other Oil-Related Investments. The changing nature of the hedgers and speculators in the crude oil market influences whether futures prices are above or below the expected future spot price. In order to induce speculators to take the corresponding long side of the same futures contract, crude oil producers must generally be willing to sell futures contracts at prices that are below expected future spot prices. Conversely, if the predominant hedgers in the futures market are the purchasers of the crude oil who purchase futures contracts to hedge against a rise in prices, then speculators will only take the short side of the futures contract if the futures price is greater than the expected future spot price of crude oil. This can have significant implications for USOF when it is time to reinvest the proceeds from a maturing Oil Futures Contract into a new Oil Futures Contract. While USOF does not intend to take physical delivery of oil under its Oil Futures Contracts, physical delivery under such contracts impacts the value of the contracts. While it is not the current intention of USOF to take physical delivery of crude oil under any of its Oil Futures Contracts, futures contracts are not required to be cash-settled and it is possible to take delivery under some of these contracts. Storage costs associated with purchasing crude oil could result in costs and other liabilities that could impact the value of Oil Futures Contracts or Other Oil-Related Investments. Storage costs include the time value of money invested in crude oil as a physical commodity plus the actual costs of storing the crude oil less any benefits from ownership of crude oil that are not obtained by the holder of a futures contract. In general, Oil Futures Contracts have a one-month delay for contract delivery and the back month (the back month is any future delivery month other than the spot month) includes storage costs. To the extent that these storage costs change for crude oil while USOF holds Oil Futures Contracts or Other Oil-Related Investments, the value of the Oil Futures Contracts or Other Oil-Related Investments, and therefore USOF’s NAV, may change as well. Regulation of the commodity interests and energy markets is extensive and constantly changing; future regulatory developments are impossible to predict but may significantly and adversely affect USOF. The futures markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations, and margin requirements. In addition, the CFTC and the exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of a market emergency, including, for example, the retroactive implementation of speculative position limits or higher margin requirements, the establishment of daily price limits and the suspension of trading. 28 Table of Contents The regulation of commodity interest transactions in the United States is a rapidly changing area of law and is subject to ongoing modification by governmental and judicial action. Considerable regulatory attention has been focused on non-traditional investment pools that are publicly distributed in the United States. Under the Dodd-Frank Act and otherwise, there is a possibility of future regulatory changes within the United States altering, perhaps to a material extent, the nature of an investment in USOF or the ability of USOF to continue to implement its investment strategy. In addition, various national governments outside of the United States have expressed concern regarding the disruptive effects of speculative trading in the energy markets and the need to regulate the derivatives markets in general. The effect of any future regulatory change on USOF is impossible to predict, but it could be substantial and adverse. For a more detailed discussion of the regulations to be imposed by the CFTC and the SEC and the potential impacts thereof on USOF, please see “Item 1. Business – Regulation” in this annual report on Form 10-K. Investing in USOF for purposes of hedging may be subject to several risks including the possibility of losing the benefit of favorable market movement. Participants in the crude oil or in other industries may use USOF as a vehicle to hedge the risk of losses in their crude oil-related transactions. There are several risks in connection with using USOF as a hedging device. While hedging can provide protection against an adverse movement in market prices, it can also preclude a hedger’s opportunity to benefit from a favorable market movement. In a hedging transaction, the hedger may be concerned that the hedged item will increase in price, but must recognize the risk that the price may instead decline and if this happens he will have lost his opportunity to profit from the change in price because the hedging transaction will result in a loss rather than a gain. Thus, the hedger foregoes the opportunity to profit from favorable price movements. An investment in USOF may provide little or no diversification benefits. Thus, in a declining market, USOF may have no gains to offset losses from other investments, and an investor may suffer losses on an investment in USOF while incurring losses with respect to other asset classes. Historically, Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil-Related Investments have generally been non-correlated to the performance of other asset classes such as stocks and bonds. Non-correlation means that there is a low statistically valid relationship between the performance of futures and other commodity interest transactions, on the one hand, and stocks or bonds, on the other hand. However, there can be no assurance that such non-correlation will continue during future periods. If, contrary to historic patterns, USOF’s performance were to move in the same general direction as the financial markets, investors will obtain little or no diversification benefits from an investment in the units. In such a case, USOF may have no gains to offset losses from other investments, and investors may suffer losses on their investment in USOF at the same time they incur losses with respect to other investments. Variables such as drought, floods, weather, embargoes, tariffs and other political events may have a larger impact on crude oil prices and crude oil-linked instruments, including Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil-Related Investments, than on traditional securities. These additional variables may create additional investment risks that subject USOF’s investments to greater volatility than investments in traditional securities. Non-correlation should not be confused with negative correlation, where the performance of two asset classes would be opposite of each other. There is no historic evidence that the spot price of crude oil and prices of other financial assets, such as stocks and bonds, are negatively correlated. In the absence of negative correlation, USOF cannot be expected to be automatically profitable during unfavorable periods for the stock market, or vice versa. USOF’s Operating Risks USOF is not a registered investment company so unitholders do not have the protections of the 1940 Act. USOF is not an investment company subject to the 1940 Act. Accordingly, investors do not have the protections afforded by that statute which, for example, requires investment companies to have a majority of disinterested directors and regulates the relationship between the investment company and its investment manager. 29 Table of Contents USCF is leanly staffed and relies heavily on key personnel to manage trading activities. In managing and directing the day-to-day activities and affairs of USOF, USCF relies heavily on Messrs. Howard Mah and John Hyland. If Messrs. Mah or Hyland were to leave or be unable to carry out their present responsibilities, it may have an adverse effect on the management of USOF. Furthermore, Messrs. Mah and Hyland are currently involved in the management of the Related Public Funds. USCF has also filed registration statements to register units of USSF, UNGD, USGO and USABF, each a series of the United States Commodity Funds Trust I. Mr. Mah is also employed by Ameristock Corporation, a registered investment adviser that manages a public mutual fund. It is estimated that Mr. Mah will spend approximately 90% of his time on USOF and Related Public Fund matters. Mr. Hyland will spend approximately 100% of his time on USOF and Related Public Fund matters. To the extent that USCF establishes additional funds, even greater demands will be placed on Messrs. Mah and Hyland, as well as the other officers of USCF and its Board. Accountability levels, position limits, and daily price fluctuation limits set by the exchanges have the potential to cause a tracking error, which could cause the price of units to substantially vary from the price of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract and prevent investors from being able to effectively use USOF as a way to hedge against crude oil-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in crude oil. U.S. designated contract markets such as the NYMEX have established accountability levels and position limits on the maximum net long or net short futures contracts in commodity interests that any person or group of persons under common trading control (other than as a hedge, which an investment by USOF is not) may hold, own or control. In addition to accountability levels and position limits, the NYMEX also sets daily price fluctuation limits on futures contracts. The daily price fluctuation limit establishes the maximum amount that the price of a futures contract may vary either up or down from the previous day’s settlement price. Once the daily price fluctuation limit has been reached in a particular futures contract, no trades may be made at a price beyond that limit. Additionally, on October 18, 2011, the CFTC adopted new rules, which establish position limits and limit formulas for certain physical commodity futures contracts including Oil Futures Contracts and options on Oil Futures Contracts, executed pursuant to the rules of designated contract markets (i.e., certain regulated exchanges) and commodity swaps that are economically equivalent to such futures and options contracts. The CFTC also adopted aggregate position limits that would apply across different trading venues to contracts based on the same underlying commodity. For a more detailed discussion of the position limits to be imposed by the CFTC under the Dodd-Frank Act and the potential impacts thereof on USOF, please see “Item 1. Business – What are Oil Futures Contracts?” and “—Regulation” in this annual report on Form 10-K. All of these limits may potentially cause a tracking error between the price of the units and the price of the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract. This may in turn prevent investors from being able to effectively use USOF as a way to hedge against crude oil-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in crude oil. USOF has not limited the size of its offering and is committed to utilizing substantially all of its proceeds to purchase Oil Futures Contracts and Other Oil-Related Investments. If USOF encounters accountability levels, position limits, or price fluctuation limits for Oil Futures Contracts on the NYMEX, it may then, if permitted under applicable regulatory requirements, purchase Oil Futures Contracts on the ICE Futures or other exchanges that trade listed crude oil futures. The Oil Futures Contracts available on the ICE Futures are comparable to the contracts on the NYMEX, but they may have different underlying commodities, sizes, deliveries, and prices. In addition, certain of the Oil Futures Contracts available on the ICE Futures are subject to accountability levels and position limits. To the extent that USCF uses spreads and straddles as part of its trading strategy, there is the risk that the per unit NAV may not closely track the changes in the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract. If USCF were to utilize a spread or straddle position and the spread performed differently than expected, the results could impact USOF’s tracking error. This could affect USOF’s investment objective of having its per unit NAV closely track the changes in the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract. Additionally, a loss on a spread position would negatively impact USOF’s absolute return. For a more detailed discussion regarding spreads and straddles, please see “Item 1. Business – Spreads and Straddles” in this annual report on Form 10-K. USOF and USCF may have conflicts of interest, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of unitholders. USOF and USCF may have inherent conflicts to the extent USCF attempts to maintain USOF’s asset size in order to preserve its fee income and this may not always be consistent with USOF’s objective of having the value of its units’ per unit NAV track the changes in the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract. USCF’s officers, directors and employees do not devote their time exclusively to USOF. These persons are directors, officers or employees of other entities that may compete with USOF for their services. They could have a conflict between their responsibilities to USOF and to those other entities. 30 Table of Contents In addition, USCF’s principals, officers, directors or employees may trade futures and related contracts for their own account. A conflict of interest may exist if their trades are in the same markets and at the same time as USOF trades using the clearing broker to be used by USOF. A potential conflict also may occur if USCF’s principals, officers, directors or employees trade their accounts more aggressively or take positions in their accounts which are opposite, or ahead of, the positions taken by USOF. USCF has sole current authority to manage the investments and operations of USOF, and this may allow it to act in a way that furthers its own interests which may create a conflict with the best interests of investors. Limited partners have limited voting control, which will limit the ability to influence matters such as amendment of the LP Agreement, change in USOF’s basic investment policy, dissolution of this fund, or the sale or distribution of USOF’s assets. USCF serves as the general partner to each of USOF, USNG, US12OF, UGA, USHO, USSO, US12NG and USBO and the sponsor for USCI and CPER, and will serve as the sponsor for USMI, USAG, USSF, UNGD, USGO and USABF if such funds offer their securities to the public or begin operations. USCF may have a conflict to the extent that its trading decisions for USOF may be influenced by the effect they would have on the other funds it manages. These trading decisions may be influenced since USCF also serves as the general partner or sponsor for all of the funds and is required to meet all of the funds’ investment objectives as well as USOF’s. If USCF believes that a trading decision it made on behalf of USOF might (i) impede its other funds from reaching their investment objectives, or (ii) improve the likelihood of meeting its other funds’ objectives, then USCF may choose to change its trading decision for USOF, which could either impede or improve the opportunity for USOF to meet its investment objective. In addition, USCF is required to indemnify the officers and directors of its other funds if the need for indemnification arises. This potential indemnification will cause USCF’s assets to decrease. If USCF’s other sources of income are not sufficient to compensate for the indemnification, then USCF may terminate and investors could lose their investment. Unitholders may only vote on the removal of USCF and limited partners have only limited voting rights. Unitholders and limited partners will not participate in the management of USOF and do not control USCF so they will not have influence over basic matters that affect USOF. In addition, USOF could terminate at any time and cause the liquidation and potential loss of an investor’s investment and could upset the overall maturity and timing of an investor’s investment portfolio. Limited partners will have limited voting rights with respect to USOF’s affairs. Unitholders must apply to become limited partners, and unitholders that have not applied to become limited partners have no voting rights, other than to remove USCF as the general partner of USOF. Even then, unitholders may remove USCF only if 66 2/3% of the unitholders elect to do so. Unitholders and limited partners will not be permitted to participate in the management or control of USOF or the conduct of its business. Unitholders and limited partners must therefore rely upon the duties and judgment of USCF to manage USOF’s affairs. USOF may terminate at any time, regardless of whether USOF has incurred losses, subject to the terms of the LP Agreement. In particular, unforeseen circumstances, including the death, adjudication of incompetence, bankruptcy, dissolution, or removal of USCF as the general partner of USOF could cause USOF to terminate unless a majority interest of the limited partners within 90 days of the event elects to continue the partnership and appoints a successor general partner, or the affirmative vote of a majority in interest of the limited partners subject to certain conditions. However, no level of losses will require USCF to terminate USOF. USOF’s termination would cause the liquidation and potential loss of an investor’s investment. Termination could also negatively affect the overall maturity and timing of an investor’s investment portfolio. USCF may manage a large amount of assets and this could affect USOF’s ability to trade profitably. Increases in assets under management may affect trading decisions. In general, USCF does not intend to limit the amount of assets of USOF that it may manage. The more assets USCF manages, the more difficult it may be for it to trade profitably because of the difficulty of trading larger positions without adversely affecting prices and performance and of managing risk associated with larger positions. 31 Table of Contents Limited partners may have limited liability in certain circumstances, including potentially having liability for the return of wrongful distributions. Under Delaware law, a limited partner might be held liable for USOF’s obligations as if it were a general partner if the limited partner participates in the control of the partnership’s business and the persons who transact business with the partnership think the limited partner is the general partner. A limited partner will not be liable for assessments in addition to its initial capital investment in any of USOF’s capital securities representing units. However, a limited partner may be required to repay to USOF any amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to it under some circumstances. Under Delaware law, USOF may not make a distribution to limited partners if the distribution causes USOF’s liabilities (other than liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and nonrecourse liabilities) to exceed the fair value of USOF’s assets. Delaware law provides that a limited partner who receives such a distribution and knew at the time of the distribution that the distribution violated the law will be liable to the limited partnership for the amount of the distribution for three years from the date of the distribution. With adequate notice, a limited partner may be required to withdraw from the partnership for any reason. If USCF gives at least fifteen (15) days’ written notice to a limited partner, then USCF may for any reason, in its sole discretion, require any such limited partner to withdraw entirely from the partnership or to withdraw a portion of its partner capital account. USCF may require withdrawal even in situations where the limited partner has complied completely with the provisions of the LP Agreement. USOF does not expect to make cash distributions. USOF has not previously made any cash distributions and intends to re-invest any realized gains in additional Oil Interests rather than distributing cash to limited partners. Therefore, unlike mutual funds, commodity pools or other investment pools that actively manage their investments in an attempt to realize income and gains from their investing activities and distribute such income and gains to their investors, USOF generally does not expect to distribute cash to limited partners. An investor should not invest in USOF if it will need cash distributions from USOF to pay taxes on its share of income and gains of USOF, if any, or for any other reason. Although USOF does not intend to make cash distributions, the income earned from its investments held directly or posted as margin may reach levels that merit distribution, e.g., at levels where such income is not necessary to support its underlying investments in Oil Interests and investors adversely react to being taxed on such income without receiving distributions that could be used to pay such tax. If this income becomes significant then cash distributions may be made. There is a risk that USOF will not earn trading gains sufficient to compensate for the fees and expenses that it must pay and as such USOF may not earn any profit. USOF pays brokerage charges of approximately 0.10% of average total net assets based on futures commission merchant fees of $3.50 per buy or sell, management fees of 0.45% of NAV on its average net assets, and over-the-counter spreads and extraordinary expenses (e.g., subsequent offering expenses, other expenses not in the ordinary course of business, including the indemnification of any person against liabilities and obligations to the extent permitted by law and required under the LP Agreement and under agreements entered into by USCF on USOF’s behalf and the bringing and defending of actions at law or in equity and otherwise engaging in the conduct of litigation and the incurring of legal expenses and the settlement of claims and litigation) that cannot be quantified. These fees and expenses must be paid in all cases regardless of whether USOF’s activities are profitable. Accordingly, USOF must earn trading gains sufficient to compensate for these fees and expenses before it can earn any profit. 32 Table of Contents If offerings of the units do not raise sufficient funds to pay USOF’s future expenses and no other source of funding of expenses is found, USOF may be forced to terminate and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Prior to the offering of units that commenced on April 10, 2006, all of USOF’s expenses were funded by USCF and its affiliates. These payments by USCF and its affiliates were designed to allow USOF the ability to commence the public offering of its units. USOF now directly pays certain of these fees and expenses. USCF will continue to pay other fees and expenses, as set forth in the LP Agreement. If USCF and USOF are unable to raise sufficient funds to cover their expenses or locate any other source of funding, USOF may be forced to terminate and investors may lose all or part of their investment. USOF may incur higher fees and expenses upon renewing existing or entering into new contractual relationships. The clearing arrangements between the clearing brokers and USOF generally are terminable by the clearing brokers once the clearing broker has given USOF notice. Upon termination, USCF may be required to renegotiate or make other arrangements for obtaining similar services if USOF intends to continue trading in Oil Futures Contracts or Other Oil-Related Investments at its present level of capacity. The services of any clearing broker may not be available, or even if available, these services may not be available on the terms as favorable as those of the expired or terminated clearing arrangements. USOF may miss certain trading opportunities because it will not receive the benefit of the expertise of independent trading advisors. USCF does not employ trading advisors for USOF; however, it reserves the right to employ them in the future. The only advisor to USOF is USCF. A lack of independent trading advisors may be disadvantageous to USOF because it will not receive the benefit of a trading advisor’s expertise. An unanticipated number of redemption requests during a short period of time could have an adverse effect on the NAV of USOF. If a substantial number of requests for redemption of Redemption Baskets are received by USOF during a relatively short period of time, USOF may not be able to satisfy the requests from USOF’s assets not committed to trading. As a consequence, it could be necessary to liquidate positions in USOF’s trading positions before the time that the trading strategies would otherwise dictate liquidation. The financial markets are currently in a period of disruption and USOF does not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Since 2008, the financial markets have experienced very difficult conditions and volatility as well as significant adverse trends. The conditions in these markets have resulted in a decrease in availability of corporate credit and liquidity and have led indirectly to the insolvency, closure or acquisition of a number of major financial institutions and have contributed to further consolidation within the financial services industry. In addition, the Administration and Congress have periodically been reaching impasses in passing a fiscal budget which could create long-term concerns regarding the credit of the United States and interest earned, as well as the United States Government’s ability to pay its obligations to holders of Treasuries. If low interest rates on Treasuries continues or if USOF is not able to redeem its investments in Treasuries prior to maturity and the U.S. Government cannot pay its obligations, USOF would be negatively impacted. In addition, USOF might also be negatively impacted by its use of money market mutual funds to the extent those funds might themselves be using Treasuries. Although the financial markets saw signs of recovery beginning in late 2010, economic growth in 2011 has been slow and the financial markets are still fragile and could fall into another recession. Another recession could adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of USOF’s service providers and Authorized Purchasers, which would impact the ability of USCF to achieve USOF’s investment objective. 33 Table of Contents The failure or bankruptcy of a clearing broker or USOF’s Custodian could result in a substantial loss of USOF’s assets and could impair USOF in its ability to execute trades. Under CFTC regulations, a clearing broker maintains customers’ assets in a bulk segregated account. If a clearing broker fails to do so, or even if the customers’ funds are segregated by the clearing broker but the clearing broker is unable to satisfy a substantial deficit in a customer account, the clearing broker’s other customers may be subject to risk of a substantial loss of their funds in the event of that clearing broker’s bankruptcy. In that event, the clearing broker’s customers, such as USOF, are entitled to recover, even in respect of property specifically traceable to them, only a proportional share of all property available for distribution to all of that clearing broker’s customers. The bankruptcy of a clearing broker could result in the complete loss of USOF’s assets posted with the clearing broker; though the majority of USOF’s assets are held in Treasuries, cash and/or cash equivalents with the Custodian and would not be impacted by the bankruptcy of a clearing broker. USOF also may be subject to the risk of the failure of, or delay in performance by, any exchanges and markets and their clearing organizations, if any, on which commodity interest contracts are traded. In addition, to the extent USOF’s clearing broker is required to post USOF’s assets as margin to a clearinghouse, the margin will be maintained in an omnibus account containing the margin of all the clearing broker’s customers. If USOF’s clearing broker defaults to a clearinghouse because of a default by one of the clearing broker’s other customers or otherwise, then the clearinghouse can look to all of the margin in the omnibus account, including margin posted by USOF and any other non-defaulting customers of the clearing broker to satisfy the obligations of the clearing broker. From time to time, the clearing brokers may be subject to legal or regulatory proceedings in the ordinary course of their business. A clearing broker’s involvement in costly or time-consuming legal proceedings may divert financial resources or personnel away from the clearing broker’s trading operations, which could impair the clearing broker’s ability to successfully execute and clear USOF’s trades. In addition, the majority of USOF’s assets are held in Treasuries, cash and/or cash equivalents with the Custodian. The insolvency of the Custodian could result in a complete loss of USOF’s assets held by that Custodian, which, at any given time, would likely comprise a substantial portion of USOF’s total assets. Third parties may infringe upon or otherwise violate intellectual property rights or assert that USCF has infringed or otherwise violated their intellectual property rights, which may result in significant costs and diverted attention. Third parties may utilize USOF’s intellectual property or technology, including the use of its business methods, trademarks and trading program software, without permission. USCF has a patent for USOF’s business method and has registered its trademarks. USOF does not currently have any proprietary software. However, if it obtains proprietary software in the future, then any unauthorized use of USOF’s proprietary software and other technology could also adversely affect its competitive advantage. USOF may not have adequate resources to implement procedures for monitoring unauthorized uses of its patents, trademarks, proprietary software and other technology. Also, third parties may independently develop business methods, trademarks or proprietary software and other technology similar to that of USCF or claim that USCF has violated their intellectual property rights, including their copyrights, trademark rights, trade names, trade secrets and patent rights. As a result, USCF may have to litigate in the future to protect its trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of other parties’ proprietary rights, defend itself against claims that it has infringed or otherwise violated other parties’ rights, or defend itself against claims that its rights are invalid. Any litigation of this type, even if USCF is successful and regardless of the merits, may result in significant costs, divert its resources from USOF, or require it to change its proprietary software and other technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. The success of USOF depends on the ability of USCF to accurately implement trading systems, and any failure to do so could subject USOF to losses on such transactions. USCF uses mathematical formulas built into a generally available spreadsheet program to decide whether it should buy or sell Oil Interests each day. Specifically, USCF uses the spreadsheet to make mathematical calculations and to monitor positions in Oil Interests and Treasuries and correlations to the Benchmark Oil Futures Contract. USCF must accurately process the spreadsheets’ outputs and execute the transactions called for by the formulas. In addition, USOF relies on USCF to properly operate and maintain its computer and communications systems. 34 Table of Contents Extraordinary transaction volume, hardware or software failure, power or telecommunications failure, a natural disaster or other catastrophe could cause the computer systems to operate at an unacceptably slow speed or even fail. Any significant degradation or failure of the systems that USCF uses to gather and analyze information, enter orders, process data, monitor risk levels and otherwise engage in trading activities may result in substantial losses on transactions, liability to other parties, lost profit opportunities, damages to USCF’s and USOF’s reputations, increased operational expenses and diversion of technical resources. Any failure, inaccuracy or delay in implementing any of the formulas or systems, including implementing upgrades and compatibility with the computer systems of third parties, and executing USOF’s transactions could impair its ability to achieve USOF’s investment objective. It could also result in decisions to undertake transactions based on inaccurate or incomplete information. This could cause substantial losses on transactions. The occurrence of a terrorist attack, or the outbreak, continuation or expansion of war or other hostilities could disrupt USOF’s trading activity and materially affect USOF’s profitability. The operations of USOF, the exchanges, brokers and counterparties with which USOF does business, and the markets in which USOF does business could be severely disrupted in the event of a major terrorist attack or the outbreak, continuation or expansion of war or other hostilities. Global anti-terrorism initiatives, political unrest in the Middle East and Southeast Asia, as well as political hostility towards the United States, continue to fuel this concern. Risk of Leverage and Volatility If USCF permits USOF to become leveraged, investors could lose all or substantially all of their investment if USOF’s trading positions suddenly turn unprofitable. Commodity pools’ trading positions in futures contracts or other commodity interests are typically required to be secured by the deposit of margin funds that represent only a small percentage of a futures contract’s (or other commodity interests’) entire market value. This feature permits commodity pools to “leverage” their assets by purchasing or selling futures contracts (or other commodity interests) with an aggregate value in excess of the commodity pool’s assets. While this leverage can increase the pool’s profits, relatively small adverse movements in the price of the pool’s futures contracts can cause significant losses to the pool. While USCF has not and does not currently intend to leverage USOF’s assets, it is not prohibited from doing so under the LP Agreement or otherwise. The price of crude oil is volatile which could cause large fluctuations in the price of units. Movements in the price of crude oil may be the result of factors outside of USCF’s control and may not be anticipated by USCF. Among the factors that can cause volatility in the price of crude oil are: • worldwide or regional demand for energy, which is affected by economic conditions; • the domestic and foreign supply and inventories of oil and gas; • weather conditions, including abnormally mild winter or summer weather, and abnormally harsh winter or summer weather; • availability and adequacy of pipeline and other transportation facilities; • availability of storage facilities; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • political conditions in gas or oil producing regions; • technological advances relating to energy usage or relating to technology for exploration, production, refining and petrochemical manufacturing; • the ability of members of OPEC to agree upon and maintain oil prices and production levels; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the impact of energy conservation efforts; and • the impact of environmental and other governmental regulations. 35 Table of Contents Over-the-Counter Contract Risk Currently, over-the-counter transactions are subject to little regulation. A portion of USOF’s assets may be used to trade over-the-counter Oil Interests, such as forward contracts or swap or spot contracts. Currently, over-the-counter contracts are typically contracts traded on a principal-to-principal basis through dealer markets that are dominated by major money center and investment banks and other institutions and that prior to the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act had been essentially unregulated by the CFTC. The markets for over-the-counter contracts have relied upon the integrity of market participants in lieu of the additional regulation imposed by the CFTC on participants in the futures markets. While the Dodd-Frank Act and certain regulations adopted thereunder are intended to provide additional protections to participants in the over-the-counter market, the current regulation of the over-the-counter contracts could expose USOF in certain circumstances to significant losses in the event of trading abuses or financial failure by participants. See “Item 1. Business – Regulation” for a discussion of how the over-the-counter market will be subject to much more extensive CFTC oversight and regulation after the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act. USOF will be subject to credit risk with respect to counterparties to over-the-counter contracts entered into by USOF or held by special purpose or structured vehicles. USOF faces the risk of non-performance by the counterparties to the over-the-counter contracts. Unlike in futures contracts, the counterparty to these contracts is generally a single bank or other financial institution, rather than a clearing organization backed by a group of financial institutions. As a result, there will be greater counterparty credit risk in these transactions. A counterparty may not be able to meet its obligations to USOF, in which case USOF could suffer significant losses on these contracts. If a counterparty becomes bankrupt or otherwise fails to perform its obligations due to financial difficulties, USOF may experience significant delays in obtaining any recovery in a bankruptcy or other reorganization proceeding. USOF may obtain only limited recovery or may obtain no recovery in such circumstances. USOF may be subject to liquidity risk with respect to its over-the-counter contracts. Over-the-counter contracts are less marketable because they are not traded on an exchange, do not have uniform terms and conditions, and are entered into based upon the creditworthiness of the parties and the availability of credit support, such as collateral, and in general, they are not transferable without the consent of the counterparty. These conditions make such contracts less liquid than standardized futures contracts traded on a commodities exchange and could adversely impact USOF’s ability to realize the full value of such contracts. In addition, even if collateral is used to reduce counterparty credit risk, sudden changes in the value of over-the-counter transactions may leave a party open to financial risk due to a counterparty default since the collateral held may not cover a party’s exposure on the transaction in such situations. In general, valuing over-the-counter derivatives is less certain than valuing actively traded financial instruments such as exchange traded futures contracts and securities or cleared swaps because the price and terms on which such over-the-counter derivatives are entered into or can be terminated are individually negotiated, and those prices and terms may not reflect the best price or terms available from other sources. In addition, while market makers and dealers generally quote indicative prices or terms for entering into or terminating over-the-counter contracts, they typically are not contractually obligated to do so, particularly if they are not a party to the transaction. As a result, it may be difficult to obtain an independent value for an outstanding over-the-counter derivatives transaction. Risk of Trading in International Markets Trading in international markets could expose USOF to credit and regulatory risk. USOF invests primarily in Oil Futures Contracts, a significant portion of which are traded on United States exchanges, including the NYMEX. However, a portion of USOF’s trades may take place on markets and exchanges outside the United States. Some non-U.S. markets present risks because they are not subject to the same degree of regulation as their U.S. counterparts. The CFTC, NFA and the domestic exchanges have little, if any, regulatory authority over the activities of any foreign boards of trade or exchanges, including the execution, delivery and clearing of transactions, and have little, if any, power to compel enforcement of the rules of a foreign board of trade or exchange or of any applicable non-U.S. laws. Similarly, the rights of market participants, such as USOF, in the event of the insolvency or bankruptcy of a non-U.S. market or broker are also likely to be more limited than in the case of U.S. markets or brokers. As a result, in these markets, USOF has less legal and regulatory protection than it does when it trades domestically. 36 Table of Contents In some of these non-U.S. markets, the performance on a contract is the responsibility of the counterparty and is not backed by an exchange or clearing corporation and therefore exposes USOF to credit risk. Trading in non-U.S. markets also leaves USOF susceptible to swings in the value of the local currency against the U.S. dollar. Additionally, trading on non-U.S. exchanges is subject to the risks presented by exchange controls, expropriation, increased tax burdens and exposure to local economic declines and political instability. An adverse development with respect to any of these variables could reduce the profit or increase the loss earned on trades in the affected international markets. USOF’s international trading could expose it to losses resulting from non-U.S. exchanges that are less developed or less reliable than United States exchanges. Some non-U.S. exchanges may be in a more developmental stage so that prior price histories may not be indicative of current price dynamics. In addition, USOF may not have the same access to certain positions on foreign trading exchanges as do local traders, and the historical market data on which USCF bases its strategies may not be as reliable or accessible as it is for U.S. exchanges. Tax Risk An investor’s tax liability may exceed the amount of distributions, if any, on its units. Cash or property will be distributed at the sole discretion of USCF. USCF has not and does not currently intend to make cash or other distributions with respect to units. Investors will be required to pay U.S. federal income tax and, in some cases, state, local, or foreign income tax, on their allocable share of USOF’s taxable income, without regard to whether they receive distributions or the amount of any distributions. Therefore, the tax liability of an investor with respect to its units may exceed the amount of cash or value of property (if any) distributed. An investor’s allocable share of taxable income or loss may differ from its economic income or loss on its units. Due to the application of the assumptions and conventions applied by USOF in making allocations for tax purposes and other factors, an investor’s allocable share of USOF’s income, gain, deduction or loss may be different than its economic profit or loss from its units for a taxable year. This difference could be temporary or permanent and, if permanent, could result in it being taxed on amounts in excess of its economic income. Items of income, gain, deduction, loss and credit with respect to units could be reallocated if the IRS does not accept the assumptions and conventions applied by USOF in allocating those items, with potential adverse consequences for an investor. The U.S. tax rules pertaining to partnerships are complex and their application to large, publicly traded partnerships such as USOF is in many respects uncertain. USOF applies certain assumptions and conventions in an attempt to comply with the intent of the applicable rules and to report taxable income, gains, deductions, losses and credits in a manner that properly reflects unitholders’ economic gains and losses. These assumptions and conventions may not fully comply with all aspects of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”) and applicable Treasury Regulations, however, and it is possible that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service will successfully challenge USOF’s allocation methods and require USOF to reallocate items of income, gain, deduction, loss or credit in a manner that adversely affects investors. If this occurs, investors may be required to file an amended tax return and to pay additional taxes plus deficiency interest. 37 Table of Contents USOF could be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, which may substantially reduce the value of the units. USOF has received an opinion of counsel that, under current U.S. federal income tax laws, USOF will be treated as a partnership that is not taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, provided that (i) at least 90 percent of USOF’s annual gross income consists of “qualifying income” as defined in the Code, (ii) USOF is organized and operated in accordance with its governing agreements and applicable law and (iii) USOF does not elect to be taxed as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. Although USCF anticipates that USOF has satisfied and will continue to satisfy the “qualifying income” requirement for all of its taxable years, that result cannot be assured. USOF has not requested and will not request any ruling from the IRS with respect to its classification as a partnership not taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to successfully assert that USOF is taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes in any taxable year, rather than passing through its income, gains, losses and deductions proportionately to unitholders, USOF would be subject to tax on its net income for the year at corporate tax rates. In addition, although USCF does not currently intend to make distributions with respect to units, any distributions would be taxable to unitholders as dividend income. Taxation of USOF as a corporation could materially reduce the after-tax return on an investment in units and could substantially reduce the value of the units. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 