ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risks and uncertainties should be carefully considered. If any of the following occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. An investment in our securities is speculative in nature, involves a high degree of risk and should not be made by an investor who cannot bear the economic risk of its investment for an indefinite period of time and who cannot afford the loss of its entire investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION We believe we have sufficient funds to conduct our current plan of operations into the second quarter of 2017. We will need to raise additional funding to complete the registration and potential commercialization of VYXEOS, service and pay the Company’s debt obligations and enhance liquidity. The Company has $23.3 million in cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2015, and debt obligations under the Hercules Technology Growth Capital, Inc. (“Hercules”) term loan of $14.6 million, and other liabilities. We believe that with $23.3 million in cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2015 and the $9.8 million in net proceeds from the sale of common stock during the first quarter of 2016, we have the resources to fund operations into the second quarter of 2017. We will need to raise additional capital or identify other funding sources to: • secure regulatory approvals and commercialize VYXEOS; • fund additional clinical studies and seek regulatory approvals; • expand our research and development activities; • implement additional internal systems and infrastructure; • build or access commercialization and additional manufacturing capabilities and supplies; and • service and pay our debt obligations, including the Hercules term loan, and otherwise pay our expenses and enhance the liquidity position. Our future funding requirements and sources will depend on many factors, including but not limited to: • the costs and timing of seeking and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals; • the timing, economic and other terms of any licensing, collaboration or other similar arrangement into which we may enter; • the need or interest for additional or expanded clinical studies; • the extent of our other research and development activities; • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and • the effect of competing technological and market developments. In the event we do not successfully raise funds, our product development and commercialization activities will necessarily be curtailed commensurate with the magnitude of the shortfall or may cease altogether and we may not be able to pay our debts on a timely basis. If our product development and commercialization activities are slowed or stopped, we will be unable to meet the timelines and projections set forth in the Form 10-K annual report or our other filings with the SEC. Failure to progress our product candidates as anticipated, or pay debts on a timely basis, will have a negative effect on our business, future prospects and ability to obtain further financing on acceptable terms (if at all), and the value of the enterprise. We have incurred losses since our inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We may never achieve or sustain profitability. We are not profitable and have incurred losses in each year since our inception in 1999. Our net losses for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were $19.3 million and $16.9 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2015, we had an accumulated deficit of $168.7 million. Although we believe that we will have 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS sufficient funds to meet estimated working capital requirements into the second quarter of 2017, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern beyond that time without additional financing. To date, we have derived substantially all of our revenue from an agreement with LLS and the New Jersey Economic Development Authority, or NJEDA’s Technology Business Tax Certificate Transfer Program. We cannot be certain that we will enter into any new collaboration agreement(s) that will result in research revenue. We do not currently have any products that have been approved for marketing, and we continue to incur substantial research and development and general and administrative expenses related to our operations. Therefore, for the foreseeable future, we will have to fund all of our operations and capital expenditures from cash on hand and amounts raised in offerings or potential licensings or collaborations. We may not be able to raise capital when needed. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and we expect these losses to increase significantly as we seek regulatory approvals for VYXEOS and as we prepare for the commercialization of VYXEOS. Our losses, among other things, have caused and will continue to cause our stockholders’ equity and working capital to decrease. We do not anticipate that we will generate revenue from the sale of products until 2017, assuming VYXEOS is approved by the FDA. Our ability to become profitable depends upon our ability to generate significant continuing revenues. In the absence of additional sources of capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, the development of VYXEOS or future product candidates may be reduced in scope, delayed or terminated. If our product candidates fail in clinical studies or do not gain regulatory approval, or do not achieve market acceptance, we may never become profitable. RISKS RELATED TO VYXEOS AND GENERALLY APPLICABLE TO OPERATING IN THE PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY Our regulatory submissions for VYXEOS may not be reviewed favorably or deemed satisfactory to the FDA or other regulatory authorities. The regulatory approval process is uncertain, expensive and time-consuming and we may not obtain regulatory approvals for VYXEOS on a timely basis, or at all. There is no assurance VYXEOS will receive regulatory approvals or be made available for commercial sale. VYXEOS is vulnerable to the risks of failure inherent in the drug development process. In order to submit an application for product approval to FDA or other regulatory authorities, it is necessary to submit detailed information on the clinical, non-clinical, chemistry, manufacturing, controls and quality aspects of the product candidate and have this data and information extensively reviewed and accepted by regulatory authorities. Neither we nor any potential collaboration partners are permitted to market VYXEOS, or future products, if any, in the U.S. until we receive approval of an NDA from the FDA, or in any other country without the equivalent marketing approval from such country. We have never submitted or obtained approval of an NDA or foreign equivalent in any country. Regulatory approval of an NDA or an NDA supplement or a foreign equivalent is not guaranteed, and the approval process is expensive, uncertain and may take years. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. As in the U.S., the regulatory approval process in Europe and in other countries is a lengthy and challenging process. The FDA and other regulatory bodies can delay, limit or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons, including: • we may be unable to demonstrate to the satisfaction of regulatory authorities that a product candidate is safe and effective for any indication; • regulatory authorities may not find the data from preclinical studies and clinical studies sufficient or may differ in the interpretation of the data; 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS • the FDA or other regulatory authorities might not approve our or our third-party manufacturers’ processes or facilities for clinical or commercial product; • the FDA or other regulatory authorities may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations; • the FDA or other regulatory authorities may disagree with the design or implementation of our clinical studies; • the FDA or other regulatory authorities may not accept clinical data from studies that are conducted in countries where the standard of care is potentially different; • the results of clinical studies may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for approval; • we may be unable to demonstrate that a product candidate’s clinical and other benefits outweigh its safety risks; • the data collection from clinical studies of our product candidates may not be sufficient to support the submission of an NDA or other submission or to obtain regulatory approval in the U.S. or elsewhere; and • the approved policies or regulations of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may significantly change in a manner rendering our clinical data insufficient for approval. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record-keeping, import, export, marketing, selling and distribution of product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in the U.S. and other countries, which regulations differ from country to country. In addition, failure by us or our suppliers or collaborators to comply with FDA and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory requirements may subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions, product seizure or detention, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production, and refusal to approve pending NDAs, supplements to approved NDAs or their foreign equivalents. In addition, events raising questions about the safety of certain marketed pharmaceuticals may result in increased caution by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in reviewing new pharmaceuticals based on safety, efficacy or other regulatory considerations and may result in significant delays in obtaining regulatory approvals. Even if we receive regulatory approval for VYXEOS, or any future product candidates we will be subject to ongoing FDA and other regulatory obligations and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense and limit our ability to commercialize VYXEOS. Any regulatory approvals that we or potential collaboration partners receive for VYXEOS or future product candidates, if any, may also be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing studies. In addition, even if approved, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for any product will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restrictions on the marketing of the product, and could include withdrawal of the product from the market. Regulatory policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could affect regulatory obligations of our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the U.S. or abroad. If we or potential collaboration partners, are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we or our collaboration partners may not be permitted to market VYXEOS or future products, if any, and we may not achieve or sustain profitability. 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS If third parties upon which we rely to manufacture VYXEOS and our active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) fail to obtain approval of the FDA, or other regulatory authorities, or fail to provide us with sufficient quantities of pharmaceutical product or fail to do so at acceptable quality levels or prices, our development and commercialization of VYXEOS could be stopped, delayed or made less profitable. Our CombiPlex products represent formulations with increased manufacturing risks associated with the complexities of producing drug delivery vehicles encapsulating two or more drugs that are maintained at a fixed ratio and, in the case of VYXEOS, the two drugs are co-encapsulated in a freeze-dried format. VYXEOS is manufactured on our behalf by a third party contract manufacturer. No assurance can be given that our manufacturer can continue to make clinical and commercial supplies of VYXEOS, at an appropriate scale and cost to make it commercially feasible. Our contract manufacturer has successfully manufactured batches that were used in the Phase 3 clinical study, but has also experienced batch failures due to mechanical and component issues. No assurance can be given that the process and product will not experience future batch failures or other delays or setbacks. Any such failure, delay or setback could adversely affect the development and commercialization of VYXEOS by delaying our potential future product launch and could increase our manufacturing costs substantially. Cytarabine and daunorubicin are the APIs in VYXEOS, and are available from a number of suppliers. We are currently qualifying API from additional suppliers as the supplier from whom we previously obtained these APIs received a warning letter from the FDA which indicated that importation of API from this vendor may possibly be restricted in the future. If we are unable to obtain API that satisfies FDA requirements at acceptable quantity and price, our development and commercialization of VYXEOS may be stopped, delayed or made less profitable. The facilities used by our contract manufacturers must be approved by the FDA. We are dependent on our contract manufacturing partners for compliance with the FDA’s requirements for manufacture of finished pharmaceutical products. If our contract manufacturers cannot successfully manufacture material that conforms to our specifications and the FDA’s strict regulatory requirements of safety, purity and potency, we will not be able to secure and/or maintain FDA approval for our product candidates. In addition, we have no control over the ability of our contract manufacturers to maintain adequate quality control, quality assurance and qualified personnel. If our contract manufacturers cannot meet FDA or other regulatory authority standards, we may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, which would significantly impact our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for or market our product candidates. In addition, we do not have the capability to package finished products for distribution to hospitals and other customers. We have entered into agreements with our current contract manufacturer and fill/finish supplier for clinical trial material, and commercial product. Our third party contract manufacturer is a sole source supplier from a single site location. Any disruption of supply would have a material impact on our ability to supply products for commercial sale or future clinical studies. In addition, while there are other contract manufacturers that may be able to produce VYXEOS, the proprietary technology that supports the manufacture of VYXEOS is not easily transferrable. If our supplier does not deliver sufficient quantities of VYXEOS on a timely basis, or at all, and in accordance with applicable specifications, there could be a significant interruption of our supply of VYXEOS, which would adversely affect commercialization of the product. If VYXEOS or any product candidate that we successfully develop does not achieve broad market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community, the revenues that we generate from our sales will be limited. Even if VYXEOS receives regulatory approval, it may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including: • the efficacy and safety, as demonstrated in clinical studies; • the risk/benefit profile of our products such as VYXEOS; • the prevalence and severity of any side effects; 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS • the clinical indications for which the product is approved; • the potential and perceived advantages of product candidates over alternative treatments; • the safety of product candidates seen in a broader patient group; • the cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments; • the timing of market introduction of competitive products; • the availability of adequate reimbursement and pricing by third parties and government authorities; • relative convenience and ease of administration; and • the effectiveness of our sales, marketing and distribution efforts. If any product candidate is approved but does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, hospitals, healthcare payors and patients, we may not generate sufficient revenue from these products and we may not become or remain profitable. Reimbursement may be limited or unavailable in certain market segments for VYXEOS, which could make it difficult for us to sell VYXEOS profitably. Market acceptance and sales of VYXEOS will depend significantly upon the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for any of our product candidates and may be affected by existing and future healthcare reform measures. Government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which pharmaceuticals they will cover and reimburse and establish reimbursement levels. In addition, for in-hospital use of products, a health insurer will typically reimburse a fixed fee for diagnosis/procedures. Reimbursement by a payor may depend upon a number of factors, including the payor’s determination that use of a product is: • a covered benefit under its health plan; • safe, effective and medically necessary; • appropriate for the specific patient; • cost-effective; and • neither experimental nor investigational. We intend to seek approval to market VYXEOS in both the U.S. and in countries outside of the U.S. If we obtain approval in one or more foreign countries, it will be subject to rules and regulations in those countries. In some foreign countries, particularly in the European Union, the pricing of pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with government authorities can take considerable time after receipt of marketing approval for a product candidate. Obtaining coverage and reimbursement approval for a product from a government or other third-party payor is a time-consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of VYXEOS to the payor. We may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to coverage and reimbursement. If reimbursement of VYXEOS is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. In both the U.S. and certain foreign countries, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the healthcare system that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. In particular, the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 revised the payment methodology for many products reimbursed by Medicare, resulting in lower rates of reimbursement for many types of drugs, and added a prescription drug benefit to the Medicare program that involves commercial plans negotiating drug prices for their members. Since 2003, there have been a number of other legislative and regulatory changes to the coverage and reimbursement landscape for pharmaceuticals. Most recently, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, collectively, the “Affordable Care Act,” was enacted. The Affordable Care Act contains a number of provisions, including those governing 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS enrollment in federal healthcare programs, the increased use of comparative effectiveness research on healthcare products, reimbursement and fraud and abuse changes, all of which will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs. An expansion in the government’s role in the U.S. healthcare industry may further lower rates of reimbursement for pharmaceutical products. There have been, and likely will continue to be, legislative and regulatory proposals at the federal and state levels directed at broadening the availability of healthcare and containing or lowering the cost of healthcare products and services. We cannot predict the initiatives that may be adopted in the future. The continuing efforts of government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of healthcare services to contain or reduce costs of healthcare may adversely affect: • the demand for any products for which we may obtain regulatory approval; • our ability to set a price that we believe is fair for VYXEOS; • our ability to generate revenues and achieve or maintain profitability; • the level of taxes that we are is required to pay; and • the availability of capital. In addition, governments may impose price controls, which may adversely affect profitability if products are sold in those countries. We currently have no commercial organization (i.e., marketing, sales, and distribution). If we are unable to develop a commercial infrastructure on our own or through collaborations with partners, we will not be successful in commercializing VYXEOS. We currently have a Chief Business Officer but no other commercial infrastructure (i.e., marketing, sales or distribution capabilities) for our product candidates and must build this infrastructure or make arrangements with third-parties to perform these functions in order to commercialize our products. If we need to establish this capability it will be expensive and time consuming. Any failure or delay in the development of this capability would adversely impact the potential commercialization of VYXEOS or future product candidates, if any. We expect to expand as we prepare for potential commercialization of VYXEOS, and any difficulties in effectively managing our human resources could disrupt our operations. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our staff. Future growth will require us to continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems and continue to retain, recruit and train additional qualified personnel, which may impose a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. The competition for qualified personnel in the biopharmaceutical field is intense. As of December 31, 2015, we had 25 full-time employees. We may need to expand our managerial, operational, financial and other resources in order to manage and fund our operations and clinical studies, continue our research and development activities, and commercialize our product candidates. We are highly dependent on the continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and specialized personnel required for the manufacture of our products, the clinical development and regulatory submission of the product candidates and the potential commercialization of VYXEOS. Due to limited resources, we may not be able to effectively manage any expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. If we are unable to retain key personnel or manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to implement our business plan. We have in the past, implemented workforce reductions. Depending on our need for additional funding and expense control, we may be required to implement further workforce and expense reductions in the future. Further workforce and expense reductions could result in reduced progress of our programs. In addition, the implementation of expense reduction programs may result in the diversion of efforts of our executive management team and other key employees, which could adversely affect our business. 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective, safer or less expensive than VYXEOS, our commercial opportunities may be negatively impacted. The life sciences industry is highly competitive, and we face significant competition from many pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and possibly from academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions that are researching, developing and marketing products designed to address the treatment of cancer, including AML. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and drug development resources than us. Large pharmaceutical companies, in particular, have extensive experience in the clinical testing of, obtaining regulatory approvals for, and marketing of, drugs. New developments, including the development of other pharmaceutical technologies and methods of treating disease, occur in the pharmaceutical and life sciences industries at a rapid pace. These developments may render our product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. Compared to us, potential competitors may have substantially greater: • commercial experience and resources; • research and development resources, including personnel and technology; • regulatory experience; • pharmaceutical development and clinical study experience; • experience and expertise in exploitation of intellectual property rights; and • capital resources. As a result of these factors, our competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their products more rapidly than us or may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limit our ability to develop or commercialize our product candidates. Our competitors may also develop products for the treatment of AML that are more effective, better tolerated, more useful and less costly than our products and may also be more successful in manufacturing and marketing their products. Potential competitors may succeed in obtaining approvals from the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities for their product candidates sooner than we do for our products. A key consideration when treating AML patients is whether the patient is suitable for intensive therapy. The standard of care for the treatment of newly diagnosed AML patients who can tolerate intensive therapy is the 7+3 regimen. The 7+3 regimen has been the standard of care for decades. A patient not suitable for intensive therapy may be offered the option for low-intensity therapy such as low-dose cytarabine, azacitidine or decitabine or possibly intermediate intensity therapy such as clofarabine. It should be noted that, in the U.S., azacitidine, decitabine and clofarabine are not approved by the FDA for the treatment of AML patients. The initial focus for VYXEOS development is in patients who can tolerate intensive therapy. We are aware of other products being developed for use as treatment options for AML patients, including in different patient populations (i.e., relapsed or refractory patients, patients who are deemed unsuitable for intensive chemotherapy) than the Phase 3 study population in which we evaluated VYXEOS. However, it is possible that products may be developed in the patient population studied in our Phase 3 study. The list below shows some of the products of which the Company is aware of in late-stage development: • Novartis is developing Midostaurin, a FLT3 inhibitor, as a treatment for patients under 60 years of age with newly diagnosed FLT3-mutated AML. • Sunesis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is developing vosaroxin in combination with cytarabine for patients with first relapse or refractory AML. • Cyclacel Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is developing sapacitabine for elderly patients aged 70 years or older with newly diagnosed AML who are not candidates for, or have refused, induction chemotherapy. 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS • Eisai Co., Ltd.’s, Dacogen (decitabine) is currently on the market because it was initially approved for use in another hematologic malignancy. Based on the Phase 3 study results, the FDA did not approve use of the product in elderly patients aged 65 or older with newly diagnosed AML who are not considered candidates for induction therapy, but the European Commission did approve its use in this population. • Celgene Corporation’s Vidaza (azacitidine) has been approved by the European Commission for use in adults who cannot have a bone marrow transplant in patients with AML that has developed from myelodysplastic syndrome when the bone marrow consists of 20% - 30% abnormal cells. The product is currently on the market in the U.S. because it was approved for use in another hematologic malignancy. The FDA has not approved this product for use in AML. • Ambit Biosciences was acquired by Daiichi Sankyo who is developing quizartinib for patients with FLT3-ITD positive AML refractory to or relapsed after first-line treatment with or without hematopoetic stem cell transplant. • Boehringer Ingelheim is developing volasertib, a Plk inhibitor, in a Phase 3 study investigating volasertib in combination with low dose cytarabine, in patients aged 65 years and above with previously untreated AML who are ineligible for intensive remission induction therapy. We may also face competition from these organizations in recruiting and retaining qualified personnel, establishing clinical study sites and enrolling patients for clinical studies. We believe that our ability to successfully compete in the marketplace with VYXEOS and any future product candidates will depend on, among other things: • the ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel to help us advance VYXEOS and future product candidates, if any; • the ability to develop novel products with attractive pharmaceutical properties and to secure, protect and maintain intellectual property rights based on our innovations; • the efficacy, safety and reliability of the product candidates; • the speed at which we develop our product candidates; • the ability to design and successfully execute appropriate clinical studies; • the ability to maintain a good relationship with regulatory authorities; • the ability to obtain, and the timing and scope of, regulatory approvals; • the ability to manufacture clinical trial supplies; • the ability to manufacture and sell commercial quantities to the market; • acceptance of future products by physicians and other healthcare providers; and • ability to commercialize future products, including obtaining adequate coverage and reimbursement. We expect competition for VYXEOS for the treatment of AML to increase as additional products are developed and approved in various patient populations. If competitors’ market products that are more effective, safer or less expensive than VYXEOS, or that reach the market sooner, we may not achieve substantial market penetration or commercial success. VYXEOS or any product we may develop may be subject to technology risks that may restrict or prevent their development and commercialization. Developing products based on our technology platform, known as CombiPlex, is subject to development risks. VYXEOS represents the first injectable fixed ratio, drug delivery combination oncology product that the FDA may be considering for approval. While we have attempted to address potential issues that may be unique to such a combination product, it is possible that the FDA may consider the studies performed by us to be deficient, resulting in a delay of approval or possibly a refusal to file decision. Also, while we believe that we have a patent portfolio protecting the CombiPlex technology and our product candidates, it is possible that 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS a technology unknown presently by us may be developed that is able to deliver drug combinations in a manner that provides the benefits of CombiPlex without contravening any of our patents. We may experience delays in the commencement of additional clinical studies with VYXEOS or future product candidates, or in the receipt of data from preclinical and clinical studies conducted by third parties, which could result in increased costs and delay our ability to pursue regulatory approval. Delays in the commencement of additional clinical studies and delays in the receipt of data from preclinical or clinical studies conducted by third parties could significantly impact our product development costs. In addition, ongoing clinical studies may not be completed on schedule, or at all. Before we can initiate clinical studies in the U.S. for future product candidates, we must submit the results of preclinical testing, usually in animals, to the FDA as part of an Investigational New Drug (“IND”) submission, along with other information including information about product chemistry, manufacturing and controls and our proposed clinical study protocol for its product candidates. Clinical trials may also be delayed as a result of ambiguous or negative interim results. In addition, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, the FDA, the IRB overseeing the clinical trial at issue, any of our clinical trial sites with respect to that site, or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols; • inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; • unforeseen safety issues; and • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. If we experience delays in completion of, or if we terminate, any of our clinical trials, the commercial prospects for VYXEOS and future product candidates, if any, may be harmed and may delay product revenues. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. Further, delays in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our future clinical studies with VYXEOS, or any of our product candidates, may not be completed on schedule, or at all. The commencement and completion of future clinical studies could be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including: • delays or failures to raise additional funding; • results of meetings with the FDA and/or other regulatory bodies; • a limited number of, and competition for, suitable patients with particular types of cancer for enrollment in our clinical studies; • delays or failures in obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical study; • delays or failures in reaching acceptable clinical study agreement terms or clinical study protocols with prospective sites; • delays or failures in obtaining sufficient clinical materials; • delays or failures in obtaining approval from independent institutional review boards to conduct a clinical study at prospective sites; • failure of patients to complete the clinical study; • unforeseen safety issues; 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS • lack of efficacy during clinical studies; or • inability or unwillingness of patients or clinical investigators to follow clinical study protocols. In addition, our clinical studies may be suspended or terminated at any time by the FDA, other regulatory authorities, or by us. Any failure to complete or significant delay in completing clinical studies for our product candidates could affect our financial results and the commercial prospects for the product candidates. We rely on third parties to assist in our conduct of clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or fail to meet expected deadlines, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for, or commercialize our products. We rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators to assist in conducting our clinical studies and third-parties who assist with regulatory submissions. If the third parties conducting our clinical studies or assisting with our regulatory submissions do not perform their contractual duties or obligations, or if the quality or accuracy of the work they perform is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical study protocols or for any other reason, we may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize the product candidate. VYXEOS or any product candidate we advance into clinical studies may cause unacceptable adverse events or have other properties that may delay or prevent the regulatory approval or commercialization of the product candidate or limit the commercial potential of the product candidate. Unacceptable adverse events caused by any of our product candidates could cause regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical studies and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications. This, in turn, could prevent us from commercializing the affected product candidate and generating revenues from its sale. If any of our product candidates receive marketing approval and we or others later identify unacceptable adverse events caused by the product, a number of significant negative consequences could result, including: • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the affected product; • regulatory authorities may require a more significant clinical benefit for approval to offset the risk; • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements that could diminish the usage of the product or otherwise limit the commercial success of the affected product; • we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical studies or change the labeling of the product; • we may choose to discontinue sale of the product; • we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; • we may not be able to enter into collaboration agreements on acceptable terms and execute on our business model; and • our reputation may suffer. Any one or a combination of these events could prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval and achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the affected product, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating any revenues from the sale of the affected product. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our product candidates. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical studies, and will face an even greater risk if we sell our product candidates commercially. Because we conduct clinical studies in humans, we face the risk that the use of VYXEOS or future product 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS candidates, if any, will result in adverse side effects. We cannot predict the possible harms or side effects that may result from our products. Although we have clinical study liability insurance for up to $10.0 million in aggregate, our insurance may be insufficient to cover any such events. There is also a risk that we may not be able to continue to obtain clinical study coverage on acceptable terms. In addition, we may not have sufficient resources to pay for any liabilities resulting from a claim excluded from, or beyond the limit of, our insurance coverage. There is also a risk that third parties that we have agreed to indemnify could incur liability. An individual may bring a liability claim against us if one of our product candidates causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our product candidates; • impairment to our business reputation; • withdrawal of clinical study participants; • costs of related litigation; • distraction of management’s attention from our primary business; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • the inability to commercialize our product candidates; and • loss of revenues. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if marketing approval is obtained for any of our product candidates. However, we may be unable to obtain this product liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms and with insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action or individual lawsuits relating to marketed pharmaceuticals. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to decline and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. Potential conflicts of interest arising from relationships and any related compensation with respect to clinical studies could adversely affect the process. Principal investigators for our clinical studies may serve as scientific advisors or consultants to us from time to time and receive cash compensation in connection with such services. If these relationships and any related compensation result in perceived or actual conflicts of interest, the integrity of the data generated at the applicable clinical study site may be questioned or jeopardized. The in vitro and in vivo preclinical models utilized by us to guide selection of drug ratios for encapsulation and delivery in vivo using liposomes or nanoparticles may not be representative of the response tumor cells have to drug ratios in patients. The tumor cell lines used to test for drug ratio-dependent synergy in vitro are maintained under conditions that can change their response to anticancer drugs relative to how they behave in vivo. Similarly, the tumor cells growing in preclinical cancer models may not respond to anticancer drugs the way tumor cells respond in human patients. Accordingly, there is the risk that the drug ratios contained in our products may not be optimal for clinical activity. Because the results of preclinical studies and early clinical studies are not necessarily predictive of future results, any product candidate we advance, in clinical studies may not have favorable results in later clinical studies or receive regulatory approval. Pharmaceutical development has inherent risk. We will be required to demonstrate through adequate and well-controlled clinical studies that our product candidates are effective with a favorable benefit-risk profile for use in diverse populations for their target indications before we can seek regulatory approval for their commercial sale. Success in early clinical studies does not mean that later clinical studies will be successful because product candidates in later-stage clinical studies may fail to demonstrate sufficient safety or efficacy 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. Companies frequently suffer significant setbacks in advanced clinical studies, even after earlier clinical studies have shown promising results. In addition, there is a high rate of attrition from the failure of pharmaceutical candidates proceeding through clinical studies. If we fail to comply with healthcare regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition to FDA restrictions on the marketing of pharmaceutical products, several other types of state and federal laws have been applied to restrict certain marketing practices in the pharmaceutical and medical device industries in recent years, as well as consulting or other service agreements with physicians or other potential referral sources. These laws include anti-kickback statutes and false claims statutes that prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or, in return for, purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally-financed healthcare programs, and knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services, reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and any practices we adopt may not, in all cases, meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. Any challenge to our business practices under these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We use hazardous materials, and any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time-consuming or costly. We use hazardous materials, which could be dangerous to human health and safety or to the environment. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and wastes. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental laws and regulations may impair our pharmaceutical development efforts. In addition, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials or wastes. If one of our employees were to be accidentally injured from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials or wastes, the medical costs related to the employee’s treatment may be covered by our workers’ compensation insurance policy. However, we do not carry specific hazardous waste insurance coverage and our property and casualty and general liability insurance policies specifically exclude coverage for damages and fines arising from hazardous waste exposure or contamination. Accordingly, in the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines in an amount exceeding our resources, and our operations could be adversely affected. Changing economic conditions may make it costly and difficult to raise additional capital. Our results of operations could be materially affected by economic conditions generally, both in the U.S. and around the world. Economic conditions are cyclical, and, in recent years, there has been turmoil in the world economy, which has led to volatility on the U.S. stock market. If economic conditions worsen and affect the capital markets, our ability to raise capital may be adversely affected. We are exposed to risks related to foreign currency exchange rates. Some of our costs and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies. Most of our foreign expenses are associated with activities related to VYXEOS that occur outside of the U.S. When the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currency, the U.S. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated expense increases, and when the U.S. dollar strengthens against the foreign currency, the U.S. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated expense decreases. Consequently, changes in exchange rates, and in particular a weakening of the U.S. dollar, may adversely affect our results of operations. 37 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may not be able to recover from any catastrophic event affecting our suppliers or facilities. While our suppliers have measures in place to minimize and recover from catastrophic events that may substantially destroy their capability to meet customer needs, these measures may not be adequate to recover production processes quickly enough to support critical timelines or market demands. These catastrophic events may include weather events such as tornadoes, earthquakes, floods or fires. In addition, these catastrophic events may render some or all of the products at the affected facilities unusable. RISKS RELATING OUR COMPANY’S INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Our success depends upon our ability to protect and enforce our proprietary technologies and our intellectual property, and third party intellectual property may limit or interfere with, or eliminate our ability to make, use and sell our potential products. Our commercial success depends on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection for our product candidates and their formulations and uses, as well as successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges. If we fail to appropriately prosecute and maintain patent protection for these product candidates, our ability to develop and commercialize these product candidates may be adversely affected and we may not be able to prevent competitors from making, using and selling competing products. This failure to properly protect the intellectual property rights relating to these product candidates could have a material adverse effect our financial condition and results of operations. The patent application process is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, and there can be no assurance that we or our partners will be successful in protecting our product candidates by obtaining and defending patents. These risks and uncertainties include the following: • the patent applications that we file may not result in patents being issued; • patents that are or may be issued or in-licensed may be challenged, invalidated, modified, revoked or circumvented, or otherwise may not provide any competitive advantage; • our competitors may seek, or may already have obtained, patents that will limit, interfere with, or eliminate our ability to make, use, and sell our potential products either in the U.S. or in international markets; • there may be significant pressure on the U.S. government and other international governmental bodies to limit the scope of patent protection both inside and outside the U.S. for disease treatments that prove successful as a matter of public policy regarding worldwide health concerns; and • countries other than the U.S. may have less restrictive patent laws than those upheld by U.S. courts, allowing foreign competitors the ability to exploit these laws to create, develop and market competing products. In addition to patents and trademarks, we also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. Although we have taken steps to protect our trade secrets and unpatented know-how, including entering into confidentiality agreements with third parties, and confidential information and inventions agreements with employees, consultants and advisors, third parties may still obtain this information and we may be unable to protect our rights. If any of these events occurs, or we otherwise lose protection for our trade secrets or proprietary know-how, the value of this information may be greatly reduced. Patent protection and other intellectual property protection are crucial to the success of our business and prospects, and there is a risk that such protections will prove inadequate. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time-consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our commercial success also depends upon our ability and the ability of any of our future collaborators to develop, manufacture, market and sell our product candidates without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications that are owned by third parties exist in the fields in which we are developing products. 38 TABLE OF CONTENTS In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our product candidates or proprietary technologies may infringe. Similarly, there may be issued patents relevant to our product candidates of which we are not aware. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we or any collaborators of ours infringe the third party’s intellectual property rights, we may have to: • obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; • abandon a potentially infringing product candidate or redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement; • pay substantial damages (including, in “extraordinary cases,” treble damages and attorneys’ fees), which we may have to pay if a court decides that the product or proprietary technology at issue infringes upon or violates the third party’s rights; • pay substantial royalties, fees and/or grant cross licenses to our technology; and/or • defend litigation or administrative proceedings, which may be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of our financial and management resources. Other product candidates that we may in-license or acquire could be subject to similar risks and uncertainties. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or the patents of our licensors, which could be expensive, time-consuming and unsuccessful. Competitors may infringe our patents or the patents of our licensors. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which typically are very expensive, time-consuming and disruptive of business operations. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that one or more of our patents or patents of our licensors is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated, held unenforceable, or interpreted narrowly. The adverse result could also put related patent applications at risk. Interference proceedings provoked by third parties or brought by the Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patents or patent applications or those of our collaborators or licensors. An unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the related technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. Our business could be harmed if the prevailing party does not offer us a license on commercially reasonable terms. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distract our management and other employees. We may not be able to prevent, alone or with our licensors, misappropriation of our trade secrets or confidential information, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the U.S. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. We may be subject to claims that our consultants or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their other clients or former employers to us. As is common in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, we engage the services of consultants to assist us in the development of our product candidates. Many of these consultants were previously employed at, may have previously been, or are currently providing consulting services to, other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these consultants or we have inadvertently or 39 TABLE OF CONTENTS otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers or their former or current customers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management and business operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK The price of our common stock may continue to be volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline. Since listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market on November 11, 2013, our common stock has traded as low as $1.12 and as high as $10.25. Factors that could cause continued volatility in the market price of the Company’s common stock include, but are not limited to: • our ability to raise additional capital to carry through with potential registration and commercialization of VYXEOS or any future product candidate, and current and future operations and the terms of any related financing arrangement; • results from, and any delays in or discontinuance of, ongoing and planned clinical studies of VYXEOS and any future products, if any; • announcements of FDA non-approval of VYXEOS or delays in filing regulatory documents with the FDA or other regulatory agencies or delays in the review process by the FDA or other foreign regulatory agencies; • announcements relating to restructuring and other operational changes; • delays in the commercialization of VYXEOS or future products, if any; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; • issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; • developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; • clinical and regulatory developments with respect to potential competitive products; • introduction of new products by competitors; • issues with obtaining API or other products required to manufacture VYXEOS or any future products; • issues in manufacturing VYXEOS drug substance or drug product, or future products, if any; • market acceptance of VYXEOS or future products, if any; • actual and anticipated fluctuations in the Company’s quarterly operating results; • third-party healthcare reimbursement policies; • coverage and reimbursement decisions regarding VYXEOS or future products, if any; • FDA or other U.S. or foreign regulatory actions affecting us or the pharmaceutical industry; • litigation or public concern about the safety of VYXEOS or future products, if any; • failure to develop or sustain an active and liquid trading market for our common stock; • sales of our common stock by our officers, directors or significant stockholders; and • additions or departures of key personnel. Provisions of Delaware law could delay or prevent an acquisition of us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and could make it more difficult to change management. Delaware law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person who, together with its affiliates, owns or within the last 40 TABLE OF CONTENTS three years has owned 15% of the company’s voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us. These provisions of Delaware law could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. The ownership of our capital stock by our directors, executive officers and holders of more than 5% of our capital stock is highly concentrated and will result in our non-affiliate stockholders having limited or no ability to influence corporate actions. Our directors and executive officers and holders of more than 5% of our capital stock beneficially own approximately 35.8% of our outstanding capital stock including shares purchasable upon exercise of stock options and warrants as of February 28, 2016. Accordingly, these stockholders, acting as a group, could have significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transaction. Also, our non-affiliate stockholders will have limited or no ability to influence corporate actions. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be stockholders’ sole source of gain. We are at risk of securities class action litigation. Biotechnology companies have experienced greater than average stock price volatility in recent years. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price or liquidity of our common stock. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the issuer. If any of our stockholders were to bring such a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit and the attention of management would be diverted from the operation of our business. Stockholders may experience future dilution as a result of future equity offerings. In order to raise additional capital, we may in the future offer additional shares of our common stock or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock at prices that may not be the same as the price per share in prior offerings. We may sell shares or other securities in any offering at a price per share that is less than the price per share paid by investors in prior offerings, and investors purchasing shares or other securities in the future could have rights superior to existing stockholders. The price per share at which we sell additional shares of our common stock, or securities convertible or exchangeable into common stock, in future transactions may be higher or lower than the price per share paid by investors in prior offerings. Raising additional funds by issuing securities or through licensing or lending arrangements may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. We may raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, the share ownership of existing stockholders will be diluted. Any future debt financing we enter into may involve covenants that restrict our operations, including limitations on our ability to incur liens or additional debt, pay dividends, redeem our stock, make certain investments and engage in certain merger, consolidation or asset sale 41 TABLE OF CONTENTS transactions, among other restrictions. In addition, if we raise additional funds through licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable. If adequate funds are not available, our ability to achieve profitability or to respond to competitive pressures will be significantly limited and we may be required to delay, significantly curtail or eliminate the development or commercialization of our product candidates. We are an “emerging growth company” and may elect to comply with reduced public company reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, which could make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act enacted in April 2012. For as long as we continue to be an “emerging growth company,” we may choose to take advantage of exemptions from various public company reporting requirements. These exemptions include, but are not limited to, • not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; • reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements; and • exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We can be an “emerging growth company” for up to five years after the first sale of our common equity securities pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, which occurred on June 10, 2013 when the SEC declared effective our Form S-1 registration statement. However, if certain events occur prior to the end of such five year period, including if we become a “large accelerated filer,” our annual gross revenues exceed $1 billion or we issue more than $1 billion of non-convertible debt in any three-year period, we will cease to be an “emerging growth company” prior to the end of such five-year period. We cannot predict whether investors will find our common stock less attractive if we choose to rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of any choice we make to reduce future disclosure, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our common stock price may be more volatile. We also qualify at this time as a “smaller reporting company.” Many of the reduced disclosure obligations applicable to emerging growth companies apply to smaller reporting companies. Under the JOBS Act, “emerging growth companies” can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies, which is not available for smaller reporting companies. However, we have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies.” We have and will continue to incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, particularly once we cease to be an “emerging growth company,” and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a public reporting company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ, have imposed various requirements on public companies, including establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time consuming and costly. For example we expect that these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Once we cease to be an “emerging growth company,” an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting will be required to be issued by 42 TABLE OF CONTENTS our independent registered public accounting firm. To achieve compliance with Section 404 within the prescribed time period, we have engaged in a process to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting, which is both costly and challenging. In this regard, we will need to continue to dedicate internal resources, engage outside consultants and adopt a detailed work plan to assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, continue steps to improve control processes as appropriate, validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented and implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. Despite our efforts, there is a risk that neither we nor, when required, our independent registered public accounting firm will be able to conclude within the prescribed timeframe that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as required by Section 404. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. We expect that the additional reporting and other obligations imposed on us by these rules and regulations and compliance with evolving interpretations of new or changed legal requirements may cause us to incur higher costs as we continually assess current practices, policies and procedures, and may divert management time and attention from potential revenue-generating activities to compliance matters. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may also be harmed. Further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC. 