ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSRisks Relating to Our Business Many of the products we manufacture or purchase and resell are commodities whose price is determined by the market's supply and demand for such products, and the markets in which we operate are cyclical and competitive. The depressed state of the housing, construction, and home improvement markets could continue to adversely affect demand and pricing for our products.Many of the building products we produce or distribute, including OSB, plywood, lumber and particleboard, are commodities that are widely available from other manufacturers or distributors with prices and volumes determined frequently in an auction market based on participants' perceptions of short-term supply and demand factors. At times, the price for any one or more of the products we produce may fall below our cash production costs, requiring us to either incur short-term losses on product sales or cease production at one or more of our manufacturing facilities. Therefore, our profitability with respect to these commodity products depends, in significant part, on managing our cost structure, particularly raw materials and labor, which represent the largest components of our operating costs. Commodity wood product prices could be volatile in response to operating rates and inventory levels in various distribution channels. Commodity price volatility affects our distribution business, with falling price environments generally causing reduced revenues and margins, resulting in substantial declines in profitability and possible net losses.Historically, demand for the products we manufacture, as well as the products we purchase and distribute, has been closely correlated with new residential construction in the United States and, to a lesser extent, light commercial construction and residential repair-and-remodeling activity. New residential construction activity remained substantially below average historical levels during 2012, and so did demand for many of the products we manufacture and distribute. There is significant uncertainty regarding the timing and extent of any recovery in such construction activity and resulting product demand levels. Demand for new residential construction is influenced by seasonal weather factors, mortgage availability and rates, unemployment levels, household formation rates, domestic population growth, immigration rates, residential vacancy and foreclosure rates, demand for second homes, existing home prices, consumer confidence, and other general economic factors.Wood products industry supply is influenced primarily by price-induced changes in the operating rates of existing facilities but is also influenced over time by the introduction of new product technologies, capacity additions and closures, restart of idled capacity, and log availability. The balance of wood products supply and demand in the United States is also heavily influenced by imported products, principally from Canada.We have very limited control of the foregoing, and as a result, our profitability and cash flow may fluctuate materially in response to changes in the supply and demand balance for our primary products.Our industry is highly competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively, our sales, operating results, and growth strategies could be negatively affected.The building products distribution industry that our Building Materials Distribution segment competes in is highly fragmented and competitive, and the barriers to entry for local competitors are relatively low. Competitive factors in our 10Table of Contents industry include pricing and availability of product, service and delivery capabilities, ability to assist customers with problem solving, customer relationships, geographic coverage, and breadth of product offerings. Also, financial stability is important to suppliers and customers in choosing distributors and allows for more favorable terms on which to obtain products from suppliers and sell products to customers. If our financial condition deteriorates in the future, our support from suppliers may be negatively affected.The markets for the products we manufacture in our Wood Products segment are also highly competitive. Our competitors range from very large, fully integrated forest and building products firms to smaller firms that may manufacture only one or a few types of products. We also compete less directly with firms that manufacture substitutes for wood building products. Certain mills operated by our competitors may be lower-cost manufacturers than the mills operated by us.Some of our competitors are larger companies and, therefore, have access to greater financial and other resources than we do. These resources may afford those competitors greater purchasing power, increased financial flexibility and more capital resources for expansion and improvement, which may enable those competitors to compete more effectively than we can.Our manufacturing businesses may have difficulty obtaining wood fiber at favorable prices or at all.Wood fiber is our principal raw material, which accounted for approximately 43% of the aggregate amount of materials, labor, and other operating expenses, including from related parties (excluding depreciation), for our Wood Products segment in 2012. Wood fiber is a commodity, and prices have been cyclical historically in response to changes in domestic and foreign demand and supply. Foreign demand for timber exports, particularly from China, increased timber costs in the western U.S. in 2010 and 2011 and negatively affected wood products manufacturers in the region. In 2012, China's demand for timber exports from the western U.S. declined significantly from 2011 levels. In the future, we expect the level of foreign demand for timber exports from the western U.S. to fluctuate based on the economic activity in China and other Pacific Rim countries, currency exchange rates and the availability of timber supplies from other countries such as Canada, Russia, and New Zealand. Sustained periods of high timber costs may impair the cost competitiveness of our manufacturing facilities.We currently enjoy the benefit of supply agreements put in place in 2005 following the sale of our timberlands (or successor arrangements), under which we purchase timber at market‑based prices. For 2012, approximately 33% of our timber was supplied pursuant to agreements assumed by (or replacement master supply agreements with) Hancock, Molpus, and Rayonier. The supply agreements with these parties terminate on December 31, 2014, subject to additional one-year extensions unless notice is provided to the other party at least six months prior to expiration of the applicable agreement. If a counterparty to these agreements elects not to continue these agreements or we are unable to renegotiate these agreements on terms that are acceptable to us, we would need to locate a replacement supplier for our timber requirements, which could include private purchases with other suppliers, open-market purchases, and purchases from governmental sources. If we are unable to locate a replacement supplier in a particular region to satisfy our timber needs at satisfactory prices, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.In 2012, we purchased approximately 21% of our timber from federal, state, and local governments. In certain regions in which we operate, a substantial portion of our timber is purchased from governmental authorities. As a result, existing and future governmental regulation can affect our access to, and the cost of, such timber. Future domestic or foreign legislation and litigation concerning the use of timberlands, timber harvest methodologies, forest road construction and maintenance, the protection of endangered species, forest-based carbon sequestration, the promotion of forest health, and the response to and prevention of catastrophic wildfires can affect timber and fiber supply from both government and private lands. Availability of harvested timber and fiber may be further limited by fire, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, windstorms, hurricanes, flooding, and other natural and man-made causes, thereby reducing supply and increasing prices.Availability of residual wood fiber for our particleboard operation has been negatively affected by significant mill closures and curtailments that have occurred among solid-wood product manufacturers. Future development of wood cellulose biofuel or other new sources of wood fiber demand could interfere with our ability to source wood fiber or lead to significantly higher costs.Significant changes in discount rates, actual investment return on pension assets, and other factors could affect our earnings, equity, and pension contributions in future periods.Our earnings may be negatively affected by the amount of income or expense we record for our pension plans. Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions relating to financial market and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators can change the assumptions. The most significant year-end assumptions used to estimate pension expense 11Table of Contents are the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. In addition, we are required to make an annual measurement of plan assets and liabilities, which may result in a significant change to equity through a reduction or increase to "Accumulated other comprehensive loss." A decline in the market value of the pension assets will increase our funding requirements. Our pension plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. As interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefit costs and funding requirements. Changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension plans. At December 31, 2012, the net underfunded status of our defined benefit pension plans was $192.5 million. If the status of our defined benefit plans continues to be underfunded, we anticipate significant future funding obligations, reducing the cash available for our business. For more discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension plan estimates, see "Pensions" included in "Critical Accounting Estimates" in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of this Form 10-K.Our recent significant capital investments have increased fixed costs, which could negatively affect our profitability.In the past three years, we have completed a number of capital investments, including significantly increasing our outdoor storage acreage and leasing additional warehouse space. In the future, we expect to make further capital investments, primarily related to internal veneer production. These significant capital investments have resulted in increased fixed costs, which could negatively affect our profitability if the housing market does not recover and revenues do not improve to offset our incremental fixed costs.A material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, including the demand from our Building Materials Distribution business, reduce our sales, and/or negatively affect our financial results.Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including but not limited to:• Equipment failure, particularly a press at one of our major EWP production facilities;• Fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes;• Unscheduled maintenance outages;• Utility and transportation infrastructure disruptions;• Labor difficulties;• Other operational problems; or• Ecoterrorism or threats of ecoterrorism.Any downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and/or require us to make unplanned capital expenditures. If our machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to satisfy customer requirements would be impaired, resulting in lower sales and net income.Because approximately 38% of our Wood Products sales in 2012, including approximately 73% of our EWP sales, were to our Building Materials Distribution business, a material disruption at our Wood Products facilities would also negatively impact our Building Materials Distribution business. We are therefore exposed to a larger extent to the risk of disruption to our Wood Products manufacturing facilities due to our vertical integration and the resulting impact on our Building Materials Distribution business.In addition, a number of our suppliers are subject to the manufacturing facility disruption risks noted above. Our suppliers' inability to produce the necessary raw materials for our manufacturing processes or supply the finished goods that we distribute through our Building Materials Distribution segment may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial position.Adverse conditions may increase the credit risk from our customers.Our Building Materials Distribution and Wood Products segments extend credit to numerous customers who are heavily exposed to the effects of downturns in the housing market. Unfavorable housing market conditions could result in 12Table of Contents financial failures of one or more of our significant customers, which could impair our ability to fully collect receivables from such customers and negatively affect our operating results, cash flow, and liquidity.A significant portion of our sales are concentrated with a relatively small number of customers.For the year ended December 31, 2012, our top ten customers represented approximately 29% of our sales, with one customer accounting for approximately 11% of sales. At December 31, 2012, receivables from such customer accounted for approximately 14% of total receivables. Although we believe that our relationships with our customers are strong, the loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, cash flow and liquidity.Our ability to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs is subject to various risks.Our ability to make scheduled payments on our indebtedness and fund other liquidity needs depends on and is subject to our financial and operating performance, which in turn is affected by general and regional economic, financial, competitive, business, and other factors, including the availability of financing in the banking and capital markets as well as the other risks described herein. In particular, demand for our products correlates to a significant degree to the level of residential construction activity in North America, which historically has been characterized by significant cyclicality. Over the last several years, housing starts remained below historical levels. This reduced level of building was caused, in part, by an increase in the inventory of homes for sale, a more restrictive mortgage market, and a slowed economy. There can be no assurance as to when or if the housing market will rebound to historical levels. We have experienced significant losses from operations and used significant cash for operating activities in recent periods.We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to service our debt obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs, we could be forced to curtail our operations, reorganize our capital structure, or liquidate some or all of our assets.We are subject to environmental regulation and environmental compliance expenditures, as well as other potential environmental liabilities.Our businesses are subject to a wide range of general and industry-specific environmental laws and regulations, particularly with respect to air emissions, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous waste management, and site remediation. Enactment of new environmental laws or regulations, including those aimed at addressing greenhouse gas emissions, or changes in existing laws or regulations might require significant expenditures or restrict operations.From time to time, legislative bodies and environmental regulatory agencies may promulgate new regulatory programs imposing significant incremental operating costs or capital costs on us. In December 2012, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) finalized a revised series of four regulations commonly referred to collectively as Boiler MACT, which are intended to regulate the emission of hazardous air pollutants from industrial boilers. Facilities in our Wood Products segment will be subject to one or more of these regulations and must be in compliance with the applicable rules by early 2016. We are currently undertaking a complete review of the revised rules to assess how they will affect our operations. Even with the revised rules finalized, considerable uncertainty still exists, as there will likely be legal challenges to the final rules from industry and/or environmental organizations. Notwithstanding that uncertainty, we are proceeding with efforts to analyze the applicability and requirements of the regulations, including the capital and operating costs required to comply. At this time, we cannot accurately forecast the capital or operating cost changes that may result from compliance with the regulations.As an owner and operator of real estate, we may be liable under environmental laws for the cleanup of past and present spills and releases of hazardous or toxic substances on or from our properties and operations. We could be found liable under these laws whether or not we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such substances. In some cases, this liability may exceed the value of the property itself.We may be unable to generate funds or other sources of liquidity and capital to fund unforeseen environmental liabilities or expenditures to the extent we are not indemnified by third parties. For example, in connection with the completion of our acquisition of the forest products and paper assets of OfficeMax in 2004 (Forest Products Acquisition), OfficeMax is generally obligated to indemnify us for hazardous substance releases and other environmental violations that occurred prior to the Forest Products Acquisition. However, OfficeMax may not have sufficient funds to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations when required, and in some cases, we may not be contractually entitled to indemnification by OfficeMax. In addition, in connection with the sale of our Paper and Packaging & Newsprint assets in 2008, Boise Inc. and its affiliates assumed any and all environmental liabilities arising from our ownership or operation of the assets and businesses sold to them, 13Table of Contents and we believe we are entitled to indemnification by them from third-party claims in the event they fail to fully discharge any such liabilities on the basis of common law rules of indemnification. However, Boise Inc. may not have sufficient funds to discharge its obligations when required or to indemnify us from third-party claims arising out of any such failure. For additional information on how environmental regulation and compliance affects our business, see "Environmental" in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of this Form 10-K.Labor disruptions or increased labor costs could adversely affect our business.As of February 17, 2013, we had approximately 4,620 employees. Approximately 30% of these employees work pursuant to collective bargaining agreements. As of February 17, 2013, we had ten collective bargaining agreements. Two agreements, covering 355 employees at our facility in Florien, Louisiana, and 287 employees at our facility in Oakdale, Louisiana, are set to expire on July 15, 2013. We expect these two agreements to be bargained together. If these agreements are not renewed or extended upon their expiration, we could experience a material labor disruption or significantly increased labor costs, which could prevent us from meeting customer demand or reduce our sales and profitability.If our long-lived assets become impaired, we may be required to record noncash impairment charges that could have a material impact on our results of operations.We review the carrying value of long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. Should the markets for our products deteriorate further or should we decide to invest capital differently than as expected, or should other cash flow assumptions change, it is possible that we will be required to record noncash impairment charges in the future with respect to the investments we have completed and expect to complete, which could have a material impact on our results of operations.The terms of our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes restrict, and covenants contained in agreements governing indebtedness in the future may restrict, our ability to operate our business and to pursue our business strategies.Our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes contain, and any future indebtedness of ours may contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose customary operating and financial restrictions on us. Our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries, among other things, to:•Incur additional debt;•Declare or pay dividends, redeem stock, or make other distributions to stockholders;•Make investments;•Create liens or use assets as security in other transactions;•Merge or consolidate, or sell, transfer, lease or dispose of substantially all of our assets;•Enter into transactions with affiliates;•Sell or transfer certain assets; and•Make prepayments on our senior notes and subordinated indebtedness.In addition, our revolving credit facility provides that if an event of default occurs or excess availability under our revolving credit facility drops below a threshold amount equal to the greater of 12.5% of the aggregate commitments under our revolving credit facility or $31.25 million (and until such time as excess availability for two consecutive fiscal months exceeds that threshold amount and no event of default has occurred and is continuing), we will be required to maintain a monthly minimum fixed coverage charge ratio of 1.0:1.0, determined on a trailing twelve-month basis.Our failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness.We may be unable to attract and retain key management and other key employees.Our key managers are important to our success and may be difficult to replace because they have an average of 30 years of experience in forest products manufacturing and building materials distribution. While our senior management team 14Table of Contents has considerable experience, certain members of our management team are nearing or have reached normal retirement age. The failure to successfully implement succession plans could result in inadequate depth of institutional knowledge or inadequate skill sets, which could adversely affect our business.As a result of the sale of our Paper and Packaging & Newsprint assets, we now rely on Boise Inc. for many of our administrative services.In conjunction with the sale of our Paper and Packaging & Newsprint assets in 2008, we entered into an Outsourcing Services Agreement, under which Boise Inc. provides a number of corporate staff services to us at cost. These services include information technology, accounting, and human resource transactional services. Most of the Boise Inc. staff that provides these services are providing the same services they provided when they were our employees. Nevertheless, we cannot be assured that these employees will remain with Boise Inc. or that there will not be a disruption in the continuity or level of service provided. If Boise Inc. is unwilling or unable to provide services at the same quality levels as those services have been provided in the past, our business and compliance activities and results of operations could be substantially and negatively affected.Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell your shares at or above the price you paid for them. The market price for our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, including:•Our operating and financial performance and prospects; •Our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; •The public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements, and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC); •Changes in, or failure to meet, earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common stock or the stock of other companies in our industry; •The failure of research analysts to cover our common stock; •General economic, industry, and market conditions; •Strategic actions by us, our customers, or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; •New laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; •Changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations, or principles; •Material litigation or government investigations; •Changes in general conditions in the U.S. and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism, or responses to such events; •Changes in key personnel; •Sales of common stock by us, our principal stockholder, or members of our management team; •Termination of lock-up agreements with our management team and principal stockholder; •The granting or exercise of employee stock options; •Volume of trading in our common stock; and •The impact of the facts described elsewhere in "Item 1A. Risk Factors" of this Form 10-K.In addition, in recent years, the stock market has regularly experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. 15Table of Contents Hence, the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with us, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our share price. The requirements of being a public company will increase certain of our costs and require significant management focus. As a public company, our legal, accounting, and other expenses associated with compliance-related and other activities will increase. For example, we have created new board committees and appointed six independent directors to comply with the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). Costs to obtain director and officer liability insurance will contribute to our increased costs. As a result of the associated liability, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. Advocacy efforts by stockholders and third parties may also prompt even more changes in governance and reporting requirements, which could further increase our compliance costs. We are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements since we are a "controlled company" within the meaning of the NYSE rules, and as a result, you will not have the protections afforded by these corporate governance requirements. Boise Cascade Holdings, L.L.C. (BC Holdings) holds a majority of our common stock. Madison Dearborn Partners, L.L.C. (Madison Dearborn), through one of its investment funds, is BC Holdings' principal equityholder. We are considered a "controlled company" for the purposes of the NYSE listing requirements. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by a group is a "controlled company" and may elect not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that our board of directors, our Compensation Committee, and our Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee meet the standard of independence established by those corporate governance requirements. The NYSE independence standards are intended to ensure that directors who meet the independence standard are free of any conflicting interest that could influence their actions as directors. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE's corporate governance requirements. Our majority stockholder has the ability to control significant corporate activities, and our majority stockholder's interests may not coincide with yours. BC Holdings beneficially owns approximately 68.7% of our common stock. As a result of its ownership, BC Holdings (and Madison Dearborn as its indirect controlling equityholder), so long as it holds a majority of our outstanding shares, will have the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of stockholders and, through our board of directors, the ability to control decision making with respect to our business direction and policies. Matters over which Madison Dearborn, directly or indirectly, exercises control include:•Election of directors; •Mergers and other business combination transactions, including proposed transactions that would result in our stockholders receiving a premium price for their shares; •Other acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets; •Incurrence of indebtedness and the issuance of equity securities; •Repurchase of stock and payment of dividends; and •The issuance of shares to management under our newly adopted management incentive plan (2013 Incentive Plan), as described in "Item 11. Executive Compensation" in this Form 10-K. Even if BC Holdings' ownership of our shares falls below a majority, it may continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. In addition, BC Holdings has a contractual right to designate a number of directors proportionate to its stock ownership. Conflicts of interest may arise because some of our directors are principals of our largest stockholder. Messrs. Mencoff, Norton, and Souleles, who are officers or employees of Madison Dearborn, serve on our board of directors. Madison Dearborn is the ultimate principal equityholder of BC Holdings, our majority stockholder. Madison 16Table of Contents Dearborn and entities controlled by it may hold equity interests in entities that directly or indirectly compete with us, and companies in which it currently invests may begin competing with us. As a result of these relationships, when conflicts between the interests of Madison Dearborn, on the one hand, and of other stockholders, on the other hand, arise, these directors may not be disinterested. Although our directors and officers have a duty of loyalty to us under Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation, transactions that we enter into in which a director or officer has a conflict of interest are generally permissible so long as (1) the material facts relating to the director's or officer's relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our board of directors and a majority of our disinterested directors approves the transaction, (2) the material facts relating to the director's or officer's relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our stockholders and a majority of our disinterested stockholders approve the transaction, or (3) the transaction is otherwise fair to us. Our certificate of incorporation also provides that any principal, officer, member, manager, and/or employee of Madison Dearborn or any entity that controls is controlled by or under common control with Madison Dearborn (other than Forest Products Holdings, L.L.C. (FPH), an entity controlled by an investment fund managed by Madison Dearborn, BC Holdings, us, or any company that is controlled by us) or any investment funds managed by Madison Dearborn will not be required to offer any transaction opportunity of which they become aware to us and could take any such opportunity for themselves or offer it to other companies in which they have an investment, unless such opportunity is offered to them solely in their capacities as our directors. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Instead, we intend to retain future earnings to fund our growth. In addition, our existing indebtedness restricts, and we anticipate our future indebtedness may restrict, our ability to pay dividends. Therefore, you may not receive a return on your investment in our common stock by receiving a payment of dividends.Boise Cascade Company does not conduct any substantive operations and, as a result, its ability to pay dividends will be dependent upon the financial results and cash flows of its operating subsidiaries and the distribution or other payment of cash to it in the form of dividends or otherwise. The direct and indirect subsidiaries of Boise Cascade Company are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to make any funds available to Boise Cascade Company.Future sales of our common stock, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, may depress our stock price. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional shares. As of March 1, 2013, there were 43,229,412 shares of our common stock outstanding. Of these, 13,529,412 shares are freely tradable (except for shares, if any, held by our affiliates), and approximately 29,700,000 shares may be sold upon expiration of lock-up agreements on August 4, 2013 (subject to volume limitations). All of our common stock, other than the 13,529,412 shares sold in our initial public offering, is owned by BC Holdings. Sales by BC Holdings of a substantial number of shares could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. BC Holdings has the right to require us to register the shares of our common stock held by it pursuant to the terms of a registration rights agreement entered into in connection with our initial public offering. An aggregate of 3,100,000 shares of our common stock are reserved for future issuance under the 2013 Incentive Plan. When issued, the shares will be able to be freely sold in the public market, subject to the lock-up agreements referred to above (subject in some cases to volume limitations). If a large number of these shares are sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock. Our future operating results may fluctuate significantly, and our current operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. Fluctuations in our quarterly financial results could affect our stock price in the future. Our revenues and operating results have historically varied from period to period, and we expect that they will continue to do so as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future financial results fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively affected. Any volatility in our quarterly financial results may make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or pursue acquisitions that involve issuances of our stock. Our operating results for prior periods many not be effective predictors of future performance. Factors associated with our industry, the operation of our business, and the markets for our products may cause our quarterly financial results to fluctuate, including:17Table of Contents • The commodity nature of our products and their price movements, which are driven largely by capacity utilization rates and industry cycles that affect supply and demand; • General economic conditions, including but not limited to housing starts, repair-and-remodel activity and light commercial construction, inventory levels of new and existing homes for sale, foreclosure rates, interest rates, unemployment rates, relative currency values, and mortgage availability and pricing, as well as other consumer financing mechanisms, that ultimately affect demand for our products; •The highly competitive nature of our industry; •Availability and affordability of raw materials, including wood fiber, glues and resins, and energy; •The impact of actuarial assumptions and regulatory activity on pension costs and pension funding requirements; • Actions of suppliers, customers, and competitors, including merger and acquisition activities, plant closures, and financial failures; •The financial condition and creditworthiness of our customers; •Concentration of our sales among a relatively small group or customers; • Our substantial indebtedness, including the possibility that we may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings may not be available in amounts sufficient to fulfill our debt obligations and fund other liquidity needs; •Cost of compliance with government regulations, in particular environmental regulations; •Labor disruptions, shortages of skilled and technical labor, or increased labor costs; •Impairment of our long-lived assets; •Attraction and retention of key management and other key employees; •Our reliance on Boise Inc. for many of our administrative services; •Major equipment failure; and •Severe weather phenomena such as drought, hurricanes, tornadoes, and fire. Any one of the factors above or the cumulative effect of some of the factors referred to above may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly financial and other operating results, including fluctuations in our key metrics. The variability and unpredictability could result in our failing to meet our internal operating plan or the expectations of securities analysts or investors for any period. If we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our shares could fall substantially and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. Certain provisions of our organizational documents and other contractual provisions may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors and may discourage hostile takeover attempts that some of our stockholders may consider to be beneficial. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of us and our stockholders. The provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include, among other things, the following:•A classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms; • The ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without stockholder approval; 18Table of Contents • Stockholder action can only be taken at a special or regular meeting and not by written consent following the time that Madison Dearborn Capital Partners IV, L.P., one of Madison Dearborn's investment funds (MDCP IV), and its affiliates cease to beneficially own a majority of our common stock; • Advance notice procedures for nominating candidates to our board of directors or presenting matters at stockholder meetings; • Removal of directors only for cause following the time that MDCP IV and its affiliates cease to beneficially own a majority of our common stock; •Allowing only our board of directors to fill vacancies on our board of directors; and • Following the time that MDCP IV and its affiliates cease to beneficially own a majority of our common stock, supermajority voting requirements to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation. In addition, we have entered into a Director Nomination Agreement with BC Holdings that provides BC Holdings the right to designate nominees for election to our board of directors for so long as BC Holdings beneficially owns 10% or more of the total number of shares of our common stock then outstanding. The Director Nomination Agreement also provides that MDCP IV may cause BC Holdings to assign such right to MDCP IV or to an MDCP IV affiliate so long as MDCP IV and its affiliates are the beneficial owners of 50% or more of BC Holdings' voting equity interests. We have elected in our certificate of incorporation not to be subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (DGCL), an anti-takeover law. In general, Section 203 prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination, such as a merger, with a person or group owning 15% or more of the corporation's voting stock for a period of three years following the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless (with certain exceptions) the business combination or the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, we are not subject to any anti-takeover effects of Section 203. However, our certificate of incorporation contains provisions that have the same effect as Section 203, except that they provide that Madison Dearborn, its affiliates (including any investment funds managed by Madison Dearborn), and any person that becomes an interested stockholder as a result of a transfer of 5% or more of our voting stock by the forgoing persons to such person are excluded from the "interested stockholder" definition in our certificate of incorporation and are therefore not subject to the restrictions set forth therein that have the same effect as Section 203. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable the board of directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of the stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management.Any issuance of preferred stock could make it difficult for another company to acquire us or could otherwise adversely affect holders of our common stock, which could depress the price of our common stock. Our board of directors has the authority to issue preferred stock and to determine the preferences, limitations, and relative rights of shares of preferred stock and to fix the number of shares constituting any series and the designation of such series, without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Our preferred stock could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend, and other rights superior to the rights of our common stock. The potential issuance of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control of us, discouraging bids for our common stock at a premium over the market price, and adversely affect the market price and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. Failure to establish and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. We are not currently required to comply with the rules of the SEC implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and therefore are not required to make a formal assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for that purpose. We are required to comply with the SEC's rules implementing Section 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-19Table of Contents Oxley Act, which will require management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of controls over financial reporting. Though we will be required to disclose changes made in our internal controls and procedures on a quarterly basis, we will not be required to make our first annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until our fiscal year 2013 Form 10-K. To comply with the requirements of being a public company, we may need to undertake various actions, such as implementing new internal controls and procedures and hiring accounting or internal audit staff. Testing and maintaining internal control could divert our management's attention from other matters that are important to the operation of our business. Our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting until our fiscal year 2014 Form 10-K. At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse, in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed, or operating. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as required by Section 404, or we are required to restate our financial statements, we may fail to meet our public reporting obligations and investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Our business and stock price may suffer as a result of our lack of recent public company operating experience. In addition, if securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. Prior to our initial public offering, we were a privately held company. Our lack of recent public company operating experience may make it difficult to forecast and evaluate our future prospects. If we are unable to execute our business strategy, either as a result of our inability to effectively manage our business in a public company environment or for any other reason, our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations may be harmed. In addition, as a new public company, we do not currently have and may never obtain research coverage by securities and industry analysts. If no securities or industry analysts commence coverage of our company, the trading price for our stock would be negatively impacted. If we obtain securities or industry analyst coverage and if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSWe have no unresolved comments from the Commission staff.