ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Statements in this Annual Report under the captions "BUSINESS" and “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS", as well as oral statements that may be made by us or by our officers, directors or employees acting on our behalf, that are not historical fact constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to be materially different from the historical results or from any results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth below. We do not intend to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events. OUR EXTREMELY LIMITED HISTORY MAKES AN EVALUATION OF US AND OUR FUTURE EXTREMELY DIFFICULT, AND PROFITS ARE NOT ASSURED. To date, we have established a very limited track record of selling United States properties internationally. In view of our extremely limited operating history, you may have difficulty in evaluating us and our business and prospects. You must consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in their early stage of development. We cannot provide any assurance that we will profitable in any given period or at all. You must consider our business, financial history and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we face as an early stage company with a limited operating history. In particular, our management may have less experience in implementing our business plan and strategy compared to our competitors, including our strategy to establish our operations and build our brand name. In addition, we may face challenges in planning and forecasting accurately as a result of our limited historical data and inexperience in implementing and evaluating our business strategies. Our inability to successfully address these risks, difficulties and challenges as a result of our inexperience and limited operating history may have a negative impact on our ability to implement our strategic initiatives, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. WE HAVE CERTAIN CAPITAL NEEDS, AND THE PROCUREMENT OF FINANCING TO MEET THESE NEEDS IS UNCERTAIN. We currently have not generated much revenue. Moreover, the Company’s cash position as of December 31, 2011 is $45,120. The Company has outstanding payables and other current liabilities of $26,015 as of December 31, 2011. The future of the Company is dependent upon the Company’s ability to consummate sales of properties, the development of new business opportunities and our ability to raise new capital. We have reduced our monthly expenses by shrinking our work force, ending our payment for office rent and eliminating duplicative expenses. We plan to finance our operations for the next 12 months through cash flow from property sales, possible private placements of debt and equity, possible bank borrowings and possible joint venture arrangements. If our revenues do not materialize for whatever reason, we may have limited ability to expend the capital necessary to undertake or complete consignment or acquisition programs, and may be forced to cease operations. OUR OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS WILL ALLOCATE THEIR TIME TO OTHER BUSINESSES, THEREBY CAUSING CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN THEIR DETERMINATION AS TO HOW MUCH TIME TO DEVOTE TO OUR AFFAIRS, WHICH COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR ABILITY TO GROW OUR BUSINESS. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. This could have a negative effect on our ability to grow our business. We do not currently have any full-time employees. Our executive officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours to our affairs, although we expect Steven Gidumal to devote substantial time to our business during the process of conducting due diligence and marketing properties for developments for which we have signed option or consignment agreements. If our executive officers' or directors’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to grow our business. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ARRANGE FINANCING FOR OUR OVERSEAS BUYERS. We market our homes located in California to buyers who expect the Company to assist them in securing a mortgage for their purchase. These buyers typically put between 30% and 48% of the purchase price down in cash, a high percentage relative to current and historical averages in the U.S., which we believe makes these buyers attractive to mortgage lenders. However, we do not yet have a program in place with a lending partner that assures a steady supply of mortgage capital for these buyers. Therefore, these buyers may meet with delays in securing mortgages as information requirements vary from lender to lender, which may result in an increase in costs and fees to both the buyer and the Company, and which may also ultimately result in a loss of sales for the Company. The Company is seeking to enter into additional selling agreements and consignment arrangements for residential properties that will have lower sales prices than those it has previously sold to minimize the need for prospective international purchasers to obtain financing. The Company has identified certain properties that fit its criteria, but has not entered into any definitive agreements. There can be no assurances that the Company will enter into any such agreements. WE DEPEND ON CERTAIN KEY PERSONNEL. We substantially depend upon the efforts and skills of Steven Gidumal, the sole director and the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the Company. The loss of Mr. Gidumal's services, or his inability to devote sufficient attention to our operations, could materially and adversely affect our operations. We currently do not maintain key man life insurance on Mr. Gidumal. 8 Table of Contents OUR CURRENT MANAGEMENT RESOURCES MAY NOT BE SUFFICIENT FOR THE FUTURE, AND WE HAVE NO ASSURANCE THAT WE CAN ATTRACT ADDITIONAL QUALIFIED PERSONNEL. There can be no assurance that the current level of management is sufficient to perform all responsibilities necessary or beneficial for management to perform. Our success in attracting additional qualified personnel will depend on many factors, including our ability to provide them with competitive compensation arrangements, equity participation and other benefits. There is no assurance that (if we need to) we will be successful in attracting highly qualified individuals in key management positions. LIMITATIONS ON CLAIMS AGAINST OUR OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS, AND OUR OBLIGATION TO INDEMNIFY THEM, COULD PREVENT OUR RECOVERY FOR LOSSES CAUSED BY THEM. The corporation law of Delaware allows a Delaware corporation to limit the liability of its directors to the corporation and its stockholders to a certain extent, and our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation has eliminated our directors' liability to the maximum extent permitted by the corporation law of Delaware. Moreover, our Bylaws provide that we must indemnify each director, officer, agent and/or employee to the maximum extent provided for by the corporation law of Delaware. Further, we may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any such persons whether or not we have the power to indemnify such person against the liability insured against. Consequently, because of the actions or omissions of officers, directors, agents and employees, we could incur substantial losses and be prevented from recovering such losses from such persons. Further, the Commission maintains that indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities Act is against the public policy expressed in the Securities Act, and is therefore unenforceable. MANAGEMENT OWNS A LARGE PERCENTAGE OF OUR OUTSTANDING STOCK, AND CUMULATIVE VOTING IS NOT AVAILABLE TO STOCKHOLDERS. Our current Chairman of the Board and sole director, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, Steven Gidumal currently owns approximately 30.6% of our outstanding common stock (considered on an undiluted basis). Although Section 214 of the Delaware General Corporation Law allows for cumulative voting if a corporation’s certificate of incorporation specifically provides for it, the Company’s Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation has no provision for cumulative voting. Mr. Gidumal's large percentage ownership of our outstanding common stock may help enable him to maintain his position as such and thus control of our business and affairs. REAL ESTATE PRICES CAN BE VOLATILE, WHICH MAY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO ATTRACT BUYERS AT THE PRICES WE NEED TO MAKE A PROFIT. Our revenues, profitability and future growth and the carrying value of our properties will depend substantially on the prices we realize for the sale of our consigned and owned units. Our realized prices will also affect the amount of cash flow available for subsequent acquisitions and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. Residential homes are currently in surplus supply and their prices are subject to fluctuation in response to changes in supply and demand. THE SUCCESS OF OUR BUSINESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO SELECT RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES THAT ULTIMATELY PROVE SUCCESSFUL ECONOMICALLY. The economic success of any project will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to discern and estimate the quantity of residential properties or projects we can sell at a price sufficient to make a profit after corporate overhead and, if such residential properties are purchased, any financing carrying costs. All of these factors affect whether or not a project will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. Our assessments and estimations of these factors (which are inherently inexact and uncertain) may prove inaccurate. Although we have criterion for selecting the residential properties and projects that we will decide to pursue, we might stray from it. Accordingly, we will have significant flexibility in selecting such properties or projects. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify economically successful residential projects or that we will be able to pursue these projects successfully even if identified. Our failure to select economically successful residential projects will materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We will be constantly challenged to add new projects through further consignments or further acquisitions of new properties. There can be no assurance that our acquisition efforts will be successful in adding new profitable projects. If we fail to identify additional properties or projects to sell, our future revenues, profitability and cash flows will be adversely impacted. CURRENTLY, WE DO NOT HAVE ANY EXCLUSIVE CONSIGNMENT AGREEMENTS, AND ARE FOCUSING OUR PROPERTY CONSIGNMENT EFFORTS IN ONLY TWO GEOGRAPHICAL AREAS. THIS CURRENT LACK OF GREATER DIVERSIFICATION ENTAILS RISK. The Company currently does not have any exclusive consignment agreements, although a developer in Northern California with whom the Company previously had an exclusive consignment agreement is continuing to allow the Company to offer for sale certain remaining properties in its housing developments to the Company’s international clients. All of our sales have been in the State of California, although we continue to explore properties in Florida. At the present, our success depends entirely upon our ability to locate and secure properties on a profitable basis in California and Florida. There can be no assurance that we will be able to do this, and that we will not encounter one or more problems arising from the particular legal, economic, environmental and market conditions of these two states. Our current lack of diversification may make our results of operations more volatile than they would be if we were seeking to sell residential properties in more than these two states. 9 Table of Contents OUR INABILITY TO PROCURE ADEQUATE INSURANCE COVERAGE FOR CERTAIN OCCURANCES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Presently, as we close on projects under contract, we intend to broaden our insurance coverage. However, we may choose not to obtain insurance for some risks if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, some risks may either not be fully insurable or not insurable at all. Even if we broaden our insurance coverage, our insurance would probably not cover all potential claims or may not adequately indemnify us for all liability to which we will be exposed. Any liability or legal defense expenses not covered by insurance or exceeding our insurance coverage could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, we do not currently carry business interruption insurance. WE RELY ON A NUMBER OF THIRD PARTIES, AND SUCH RELIANCE EXPOSES US TO A NUMBER OF RISKS. Our operations depend on a number of third parties. We have limited control over these third parties. We rely on Premier Capital, an international seller of real estate properties that was founded in 1988 and expanded into China in 1997. We rely upon Premier Capital’s ability to bring potential buyers to presentations of the Company’s real estate in the five leading cities of China and to follow up on all leads with prospective Chinese buyers. Premier Capital terminated the exclusive marketing agreement with the Company in April 2011, although it has stated that it will continue to work with the Company to sell the Company’s current inventory as well as future projects. See “ITEM 1. BUSINESS – OVERVIEW-- The Company’s Business – Strategic Partner and Marketing Agreement”. We also rely upon the services of US-based and international banks to provide mortgage financing to our international buyers. In addition, we rely upon our acquisition team to identify promising consignment, auction and acquisition properties suitable for our international clientele. Overall, our inability to maintain satisfactory relationships with the requisite third parties on acceptable commercial terms, or the failure of such third parties to maintain the quality of services they provide at a satisfactory standard, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. WE ARE SUBJECT TO COMPLEX LAWS AND REGULATIONS, INCLUDING ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS, WHICH CAN ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COST, MANNER OR FEASIBILITY OF DOING BUSINESS. Acquiring, completing, renovating and selling residential properties are subject to extensive laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with environmental and other governmental regulations. Under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for personal injuries, property damage, remediation and clean-up costs and other environmental damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, these laws and regulations could change in ways that substantially increase our costs. Accordingly, any of these liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. CHANGES IN FOREGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES AND INTEREST RATES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. As a company that focuses on marketing real estate located in the United States to foreign buyers, we are exposed to certain market risks, specifically with regard to foreign currency exchange risks (and initially in particular the dollar/yuan exchange rate) and interest rates. To date, the changes in the price of the yuan have gone in the favor of the Company, making US homes less expensive to Chinese buyers, and while we monitor these exposures, we currently have no plan to manage these risks through hedging or other derivatives transactions. As a result, unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates could affect the affordability of our properties to prospective foreign buyers, which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. OUR COMPETITORS MAY HAVE GREATER RESOURCES, WHICH COULD ENABLE THEM TO PAY A HIGHER PRICE FOR PROPERTIES AND TO BETTER WITHSTAND PERIODS OF LOW MARKET PRICES FOR RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES. The residential real estate industry is intensely competitive, and we compete with other companies that have substantially larger financial resources, operations, staffs and facilities. Many of these companies not only develop, purchase and sell residential properties but also carry on construction operations and market properties on a regional or national basis. Such companies may be able to pay more for residential properties or develop, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, such companies may have a greater ability to continue acquisition activities during periods of low home market prices. Our ability to enter into consignment transactions to market additional properties and to sell them profitability in the future will be dependent upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. OUR AUTHORIZED PREFERRED STOCK EXPOSES HOLDERS OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO CERTAIN RISKS. Our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share. The authorized but unissued preferred stock constitutes what is commonly referred to as "blank check" preferred stock. This type of preferred stock may be issued by the Board of Directors from time to time on any number of occasions, without stockholder approval, as one or more separate series of shares comprised of any number of the authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock, designated by resolution of the Board of Directors stating the name and number of shares of each series and setting forth separately for such series the relative rights, privileges and preferences thereof, including, if any, the: (i) rate of dividends payable thereon; (ii) price, terms and conditions of redemption; (iii) voluntary and involuntary liquidation preferences; (iv) provisions of a sinking fund for redemption or repurchase; (v) terms of conversion to common stock, including conversion price, and (vi) voting rights. Such preferred stock may provide our Board of Directors the ability to hinder or discourage any attempt to gain control of us by a merger, tender offer at a control premium price, proxy contest or otherwise. Consequently, the preferred stock could entrench our management. Currently, no shares of preferred stock had been issued, nor is there any intention to issue preferred shares at this time. 10 Table of Contents OUR COMMON STOCK HAS EXPERIENCED ONLY LIMITED TRADING AND MAY FLUCTUATE SIGNIFICANTLY. Our Common Stock is quoted and traded in limited quantities on the OTC Electronic Bulletin Board in the United States under the symbol "GNGT.PK". The quotation of our common stock on a securities market or exchange does not assure that a meaningful, consistent and liquid trading market will ever exist. Our stock is a penny stock and there are significant risks. Until shares of our common stock become more broadly held and orderly markets develop and even thereafter, the prices of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. Stockholders should be aware that, according to the SEC Release No. 34-29093, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. These patterns include: · Control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; · Manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; · “Boiler room” practices involving high pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; · Excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker-dealers; and · The wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the inevitable collapse of those prices with consequent investor losses. Furthermore, the “penny stock” designation may adversely affect the development of any public market for the Company’s shares of common stock or, if such a market develops, its continuation. Broker-dealers are required to personally determine whether an investment in “penny stock” is suitable for customers. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 