Risk Factors Risks Related To Our Industry The cyclical nature of the demand for LPG product transportation may lead to significant changes in our chartering and vessel utilization, which may adversely affect our revenues, profitability and financial position The international LPG carrier market is cyclical with attendant volatility in profitability, charter rates and vessel values. Recent fluctuations attest to the volatility in the gas carrier market. Because many factors influencing the supply of, and demand for, vessel capacity are unpredictable, the timing, direction and degree of changes in the international gas carrier market are also not predictable. The degree of charter rate volatility among different types of gas carriers has varied widely. To the extent we have vessels in the spot market, we are exposed to changes in spot rates for gas carriers and such changes can affect our earnings and the value of our gas carriers at any given time and are also exposes to fluctuations in bunker (fuel) costs for which we are responsible in respect of vessels on spot charters. As our period charters expire that they may not be extended or renewed on favorable terms when compared to the terms of the expiring charters. In addition, when LPG vessel prices are considered to be low, companies not usually involved in shipping may make speculative vessel orders, thereby increasing the LPG shipping supply, satisfying demand sooner and potentially suppressing charter rates. Any of the foregoing factors could have an adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and financial position. Charter rates for handy size LPG carriers reached high levels during 2005 but reduced overall during the course of 2006, but increased again during latter part of 2006 and that increase has 4 Table of Contents continued into the early months of 2007. Future demand for LPG carriers and charter rates will depend on continued economic growth in the world economy and demand for LPG product transportation that exceeds the capacity of the growing worldwide LPG carrier fleet’s ability to match it. We believe that the future demand for LPG carriers and the charter rate levels for LPG carriers will depend upon continued economic growth in the world’s economy, particularly in the economies of China, India and Southeast Asia, and upon seasonal and regional changes in demand and changes to the capacity of the world fleet. The capacity of the world fleet seems likely to increase and that economic growth may not continue. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a material adverse effect on world economic growth and thus on our business and results of operations. The factors affecting the supply and demand for LPG carriers are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. The factors that influence demand for our vessels include: • supply and demand for LPG products; • global and regional economic conditions; • the distance LPG products are to be moved by sea; • availability of alternative transportation means; and • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. The factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: • the number of new building deliveries; • the scrapping rate of older vessels; • LPG carrier prices; • changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful lives of vessels; and • the number of vessels that are out of service. Any material increase in the supply of LPG carrier capacity without a corresponding growth in LPG carrier demand could have a material adverse effect on the employment of our LPG fleet and on prevailing charter rates and could accordingly adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Various economic factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects Some LPG products we carry are used in cyclical businesses such as the manufacturing of plastics and in the chemical industry and, accordingly, a slackening of demand in those industries could adversely affect the LPG carrier industry. Moreover, an adverse change in economic conditions affecting China, Japan, India or Southeast Asia could have a negative effect on the demand for LPG products, thereby adversely affecting our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. In particular, in recent years China and India have been among the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product. Such growth may not be sustained and these countries’ economies may experience a slowdown or recession in the future. Moreover, any slowdown in the economies of the United States or the European Union may adversely affect economic growth in Asia. Our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, could likely be materially and adversely affected by an economic downturn in any of these countries or regions. 5 Table of Contents If the demand for LPG products and LPG shipping does not continue to grow, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected Our growth depends on continued growth in world and regional demand for LPG products and LPG shipping, all of which could be adversely affected by a number of factors, such as: • increases in the cost of petroleum and LNG from which LPG is derived; • increases in the production and demand for industrial and residential area petroleum gas in areas linked by pipelines to consuming areas, or the conversion of existing non-petroleum gas pipelines to petroleum gas pipelines in those markets; • decreases in the consumption of LPG or LNG due to increases in its price relative to other energy sources or other factors making consumption of LPG or LNG less attractive; • availability of new, alternative energy sources; • a reduction in global or general industrial activity specifically in the plastics and chemical industry; and • adverse global or regional economic or political conditions, particularly in LPG consuming regions, which could reduce energy consumption. Reduced demand for LPG products and LPG shipping would have a material adverse effect on our future growth and would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could affect our operating results and the amount of available cash with which we can pay dividends We operate our vessels in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter hire rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results, which could affect the amount of dividends that we pay to our stockholders from quarter-to-quarter. The LPG carrier market is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of propane and butane for heating during the winter months. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns in these months tend to disrupt vessel scheduling and supplies of certain commodities. As a result, our revenues may be stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31, and conversely, our revenues may be weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30. This seasonality could materially affect our operating results and cash available for distribution to our stockholders as dividen ds in the future. Our revenues, operations and future growth could be adversely affected by a decrease in supply of liquefied natural gas, or LNG As of the current period, there has been a strong supply for and an increase in the construction of plants and projects involving LNG, of which LPG is a byproduct. However it should be noted that several of these projects have experienced delays for various reasons in their completion and thus the expected increase in the supply of LPG from these projects maybe delayed by up to two years on average in our estimation. If the supply of LNG decreases, we may see a concurrent reduction in the production of LPG and resulting lesser demand and lower charter rates for our vessels. A significant reduction in the supply of LPG would ultimately have a material adverse impact on our revenues, operations and future growth. Because the market value of our vessels are currently at high levels and may fluctuate significantly, we may incur losses when we sell our vessels, which may adversely affect our earnings and possibly lead to defaults under our loan agreements The market value of our vessels, which are currently at high levels, may fluctuate depending on a number of factors including: • general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; • age, sophistication and condition of our vessels; 6 Table of Contents • types and sizes of vessels; • availability of other modes of transportation; • cost and delivery of schedules for new buildings; • governmental and other regulations; • supply and demand for LPG products; • prevailing level of LPG charter rates; and • technological advances. If we sell vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our financial statements, the sale may be less than the vessel’s carrying value on our financial statements, resulting in a loss and reduction in earnings. Furthermore, if vessel values fall significantly we may have to record an impairment adjustment in our financial statements which could adversely affect our financial results. If the market value of our fleet declines, we may not be in compliance with certain provisions of our existing loan agreements and we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing. If we are unable to pledge additional collateral, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our fleet. The loss of our vessels would mean we could not run our business. We are subject to regulation and liability under environmental laws that could require significant expenditures and affect our financial conditions and results of operations Our business and the operation of our vessels are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which the vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. Because those laws and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with them or the impact they may have on the resale prices or useful lives of our vessels. Additional rules and regulations may be adopted which could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and which could materially adversely affect our operations. We are also required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our operations. These permits, licenses and certificates may be issued or renewed with terms that could materially and adversely affect our op erations. The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, established an extensive regulatory and liability regime for the protection and cleanup of the environment from oil spills. OPA 90 applies to any discharges of oil from a vessel, including discharges of fuel and lubricants from an LPG carrier. OPA affects all owners and operators whose vessels trade in the United States, its territories and possessions or whose vessels operate in United States waters, which includes the United States’ territorial sea and its 200 nautical mile exclusive economic zone. Although our gas carriers will not be carrying oil in bulk as cargo, we may still be subject to oil spill liability under the provisions of OPA 90 (for discharges of fuel oil or bunkers). Under OPA, vessel owners, operators and bareboat charterers are ‘‘responsible parties’’ and are jointly, severally and strictly liable (unless the discharge of pollutants results solely from the act or omission of a third party, an act of God or an act of war) for all containment and clean-up costs and other damages arising from discharges or threatened discharges of oil from their vessels. In addition, gas carriers are considered ‘‘tank vessels’’ for purposes of OPA financial responsibility requirements. See ‘‘