ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In considering our future performance and any forward-looking statements made in this report, the material risks described below should be considered carefully. These factors should be considered in conjunction with the other information included elsewhere in this report. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Current economic conditions have increased the risk of defaults on our loans. Defaults on our real estate loans have reduced our revenues and may continue to do so in the future. We are in the business of investing in real estate loans and, as such, we are subject to risk of defaults by borrowers. Our performance has been and will continue to be directly impacted by any defaults on the loans in our portfolio. As a commercial real estate lender willing to invest in loans to borrowers who may not meet the credit standards of other financial institutional lenders, the rate of default on our loans could be higher than those generally experienced in the real estate lending industry. The sustained period of increased defaults has adversely affected our business, financial condition, liquidity and the results of our operations and may continue to do so in the future. As of December 31, 2010, our non-performing assets were approximately $12.0 million, representing approximately 56% of our stockholders’ equity. Non-performing assets included approximately $3.7 million in non-performing loans, net of allowance for non-performing loan losses of approximately $4.5 million, approximately $2.9 million of real estate held for sale, and an investment in an equity method investee held for sale of approximately $5.4 million. We believe that the level of non-performing assets is largely attributable to difficulties in the real estate and credit markets. Our exposure to the negative developments in the credit markets and general economy has likely been increased by our business strategy, which entails more lenient underwriting standards and expedited loan approval procedures. At this time, we are not able to predict how long such difficult economic conditions will continue. As of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, we had approximately $5.8 million and $12.6 million in allowances for loan losses, respectively, resulting in net weighted average loan-to-value ratios of 90.37% and 72.35%, respectively. Not including allowance for loan losses, our weighted average loan-to-value ratio, as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, was 123.67%, and 124.63%, respectively, primarily as a result of declining real estate values that have eroded the market value of our collateral. As a result, we may not be able to recover the full amount of our loans if the borrower defaults. Moreover, any failure of a borrower to pay interest on loans will reduce our revenues, the dividends we pay to stockholders and, most likely, the value of our stock. Similarly, any failure of a borrower to repay loans when due may reduce the capital we have available to make new loans, thereby adversely affecting our operating results. The recent recession and constraints in the credit markets adversely affected our operating results and financial condition. As a commercial real estate lender willing to invest in riskier loans, rates of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on our loans could be higher than those generally experienced in the commercial mortgage lending industry during periods of economic slowdown or recession. The recent recession adversely affected the general economy and the availability of funds for commercial real estate developers. We believe this lack of available funds led to an increase in defaults on our loans. Furthermore, problems experienced in the U.S. credit markets from the summer of 2007 through 2009 have reduced the availability of credit for many prospective borrowers. These problems persist in the markets we are serving, making it more difficult for our borrowers to obtain the anticipated re-financing necessary in many cases to pay back our loans. Thus, an extended period of illiquidity in the credit markets has resulted in a material increase in the number of our loans that are not paid back on time. A continuation of increased delinquencies, defaults or foreclosures will have an adverse affect upon our ability to originate, purchase and securitize loans, which could significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Although there may be some signs of the general economy improving, our business has not encountered the same improvement. In addition, the recession slowed economic activity, resulting in a decline in new lending. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we funded two loans in an aggregate amount of approximately $1.3 million as compared to five loans aggregating $4.7 million in 2009. Continuation of depressed conditions in the principal markets we serve may result in our continuing to fund fewer loans, thereby reducing our opportunities to generate interest income. We have suspended payment of dividends and we cannot predict if and when dividends will be reinstated. We have not paid any dividends since June 2008 and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Dividends were suspended as a result of our operating losses. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, our net losses were approximately $3.5 million and $12.5 million, respectively. We expect that the current economic conditions will make it difficult for us to attain profitability in the near to mid-term. We are obligated to distribute not less than 90% or our REIT taxable income. However, at this time, we cannot predict when or if we will generate taxable income and dividends will be reinstated. Our underwriting standards and procedures are more lenient than many institutional lenders, which has resulted and may continue to result in a higher level of non-performing assets and less amounts available for distribution. Our underwriting standards and procedures are more lenient than many institutional lenders in that we will invest in loans to borrowers who may not be required to meet the credit standards of other financial institutional real estate lenders. As a result, we have experienced and may continue to experience a higher rate of defaults by our borrowers and an increase in non-performing assets in our loan portfolio. We approve real estate loans more quickly than other lenders. We rely heavily on third-party reports and information such as appraisals and environmental reports. Because of our accelerated due diligence process, we may accept documentation that was not specifically prepared for us or commissioned by us. This creates a greater risk of the information contained therein being out of date or incorrect. Generally, we will not spend more than 20 days assessing the character and credit history of our borrowers. Due to the nature of loan approvals, there is a risk that the credit inquiry we perform will not reveal all material facts pertaining to the borrower and the security. We depend upon our real estate security to secure our real estate loans, and we may suffer a loss if the value of the underlying property declines. We are currently experiencing a trend of declining real estate values, which has reduced the value of our collateral and resulted in losses on defaulted loans. We depend upon our real estate security to protect us on the loans that we make. We depend upon the skill of independent appraisers to value the security underlying our loans. However, notwithstanding the experience of the appraisers, they may make mistakes, or the value of the real estate may decrease due to subsequent events. Our appraisals are generally dated within 12 months of the date of loan origination and may have been commissioned by the borrower. Therefore, the appraisals may not reflect a decrease in the value of the real estate due to events subsequent to the date of the appraisals. Since the summer of 2007, there has been a significant decline in real estate values in many of the markets where we operate, resulting in a decline in the estimated value of the real estate securing our loans. Such decline appears to be continuing in several of the principal markets in which we operate. -7- In addition, most of the construction and acquisition and development loan appraisals are prepared on an as-if developed basis, which approximates the post-construction value of the collateralized property assuming such property is developed. As-if developed values on raw land loans or acquisition and development loans often dramatically exceed the immediate sales value. Realization of the as-if-developed values may depend upon anticipated zoning changes, successful development by the borrower and the availability of additional financing. As most of the appraisals will be prepared on an as-if developed basis, if the loan goes into default prior to completion of the project, the market value of the property may be substantially less than the appraised value. As a result, there may be less security than anticipated at the time the loan was originally made. If there is less security and a default occurs, we may not recover the full amount of our loan, thus reducing the amount of funds available to distribute. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in real estate markets that have not recovered from the recent recession. Lack of geographical diversification increases our vulnerability to market downturns in the Western states. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 56% of our loans were in Nevada, Arizona and California. Commercial real estate markets in each of these states suffered significantly during the recent recession, with declining real estate values and high rates of default on real estate loans. Commercial real estate markets in Nevada, Arizona and many parts of California have not recovered from the recession. We also have loans in Oregon and Texas. Our loan concentration in these Western states has increased our vulnerability to the troubled real estate markets in such states. Real estate markets vary greatly from location to location and our manager has limited experience outside of the Western and Southwestern United States. Any effort to expand into new geographical regions could be complicated by our manager’s lack of experience in such regions. We typically make “balloon payment” loans, which are riskier than loans with payments of principal over an extended period of time. The loans we invest in or purchase generally require the borrower to make a “balloon payment” on the principal amount upon maturity of the loan. A balloon payment is a large principal balance that is payable after a period of time during which the borrower has repaid none or only a small portion of the principal balance. As of December 31, 2010, most of our loans provided for payments of interest only with a “balloon” payment of principal payable in full at the end of the term. Loans with balloon payments are riskier than loans with payments of principal over an extended time period such as 15 or 30 years because the borrower’s repayment depends on its ability to sell the property, obtain suitable refinancing or otherwise raise a substantial amount of cash when the loan comes due. The borrower’s ability to achieve a successful sale or refinancing of the property may be adversely impacted by deteriorating economic conditions or illiquidity in the credit markets. There are no specific criteria used in evaluating the credit quality of borrowers for loans requiring balloon payments. Furthermore, a substantial period of time may elapse between the review of the financial statements of the borrower and the date when the balloon payment is due. As a result, there is no assurance that a borrower will have sufficient resources to make a balloon payment when due. An increased percentage of our loan portfolio consists of second deeds of trust which generally entail a higher degree of risk than first deeds of trust. We invest in second deeds of trust and, in rare instances, wraparound, or all-inclusive, real estate loans. Our board is required to approve our investing more than 10% of our assets in second deeds of trust. During September 2008, the board authorized us to allow loans secured by second deeds of trust to constitute up to 15% of our loans, due to loan restructuring and business opportunities. In a second deed of trust, our rights as a lender, including our rights to receive payment on foreclosure, will be subject to the rights of the first deed of trust. In a wraparound real estate loan, our rights will be similarly subject to the rights of a first deed of trust, but the aggregate indebtedness evidenced by our loan documentation will be the first deed of trust plus the new funds we invest. We would receive all payments from the borrower and forward to the senior lender its portion of the payments we receive. Because both of these types of loans are subject to the first deed of trust’s right to payment on foreclosure, we incur a greater risk when we invest in each of these types of loans that we will not be able to collect the full amount of our loan and may provide an allowance for the full amount of the loan. If we are unable to collect the amounts secured by second deeds of trust, our operating results will suffer and we will have less funds available to distribute to shareholders. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 53% of our loans were secured by a second deed of trust. When funded, such loans constituted less than 15% of our loans. The percentage of our loans in second deeds of trust has increased primarily due to a decline in loans secured by first deeds of trust through sales, foreclosures and modifications. As of December 31, 2010, three of our seven loans secured by second deeds of trust were considered non-performing. These non-performing loans totaled approximately $22.0 million, of which our portion is approximately $3.7 million. In addition, five of the seven second position loans had an allowance for loan loss of approximately $26.2 million, of which our portion is approximately $4.6 million. Our loans are not guaranteed by any governmental agency. Our loans are not insured or guaranteed by a federally owned or guaranteed mortgage agency. Consequently, our recourse, if there is a default, may be to foreclose upon the real property securing a loan and/or pursuing the borrower’s guarantee of the principal. The value of the foreclosed property may have decreased and may not be equal to the amount outstanding under the corresponding loan, resulting in a decrease of the amount available to distribute. Our real estate loans may not be marketable, and we expect no secondary market to develop. We do not expect our real estate loans to be marketable, and we do not expect a secondary market to develop for them. As a result, we will generally bear all the risk of our investment until the loans mature. This will limit our ability to hedge our risk in changing real estate markets and may result in reduced returns to our investors. Any borrowing by us will increase risk and may reduce the amount we have available to distribute to stockholders. We may borrow funds to expand our capacity to invest in real estate loans. We may borrow up to 70% of the fair market value of our outstanding real estate loans at any time. Any such borrowings will require us to carefully manage our cost of funds. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in this effort. Should we be unable to repay the indebtedness and make the interest payments on the loans, the lender will likely declare us in default and require that we repay all amounts owing under the loan facility. Even if we are repaying the indebtedness in a timely manner, interest payments owing on the borrowed funds may reduce our income and the dividends. We may borrow funds from several sources, and the terms of any indebtedness we incur may vary. However, some lenders may require as a condition of making a loan to us that the lender will receive a priority on loan repayments received by us. As a result, if we do not collect 100% on our investments, the first dollars may go to our lenders and we may incur a loss that will result in a decrease of the amount available for distribution. In addition, we may enter into securitization arrangements in order to raise additional funds. Such arrangements could increase our leverage and adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to declare dividends. There is a substantial risk that we would be unable to raise additional funding if needed to meet our obligations or expand our loan portfolio. We may need cash to meet our minimum REIT distribution requirements to limit U.S. federal income taxation. Because we are required to distribute annually to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding net capital gains) to qualify as a REIT and because we intend to distribute substantially all of our REIT taxable income and net capital gain, our ability to expand our loan portfolio will depend in large part on external sources of capital. In addition, if our minimum distribution requirements to maintain our REIT status and minimize U.S. federal income taxation become large relative to our cash flow as a result of our taxable income exceeding our cash flow from operations, then we may be required to borrow funds or raise capital by selling assets to meet those distribution requirements. -8- Our ability to borrow funds for this purpose, or to expand our loan portfolio, is doubtful in light of current market conditions. In addition, our ability to raise funds through an equity financing would be hindered by the current price of our stock. If we raise capital through an equity offering, this may result in substantial dilution to our current stockholders. Any debt financing may be expensive and might include restrictive covenants that would constrain our ability to declare dividends to our shareholders. We may not be able to raise capital on reasonable terms, if at all, in the current market environment. We have and may continue to have difficulty protecting our rights as a secured lender. We believe that our loan documents will enable us to enforce our commercial arrangements with borrowers. However, the rights of borrowers and other secured lenders may limit our practical realization of those benefits. For example: · Judicial foreclosure is subject to the delays of protracted litigation. Although we expect non-judicial foreclosure to be quicker, our collateral may deteriorate and decrease in value during any delay in foreclosing on it; · The borrower’s right of redemption during foreclosure proceedings can deter the sale of our collateral and can for practical purposes require us to manage the property; · Unforeseen environmental hazards may subject us to unexpected liability and procedural delays in exercising our rights; · The rights of senior or junior secured parties in the same property can create procedural hurdles for us when we foreclose on collateral; · Required licensing and regulatory approvals may complicate our ability to foreclose or to sell a foreclosed property where our collateral includes an operating business. See Note N – Legal Matters Involving The Company in the notes to the consolidated financial statement under Part II, Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. · We may not be able to pursue deficiency judgments after we foreclose on collateral; and · State and federal bankruptcy laws can prevent us from pursuing any actions, regardless of the progress in any of these suits or proceedings. By becoming the owner of property, we have and may continue to incur additional obligations, which may reduce the amount of funds available for distribution. We intend to own real property only if we foreclose on a defaulted loan and purchase the property at the foreclosure sale. Acquiring a property at a foreclosure sale may involve significant costs. If we foreclose on the security property, we expect to obtain the services of a real estate broker and pay the broker’s commission in connection with the sale of the property. We may incur substantial legal fees and court costs in acquiring a property through contested foreclosure and/or bankruptcy proceedings. In addition, significant expenditures, including property taxes, maintenance costs, mortgage payments, insurance costs and related charges, must be made on any property we own regardless of whether the property is producing any income. See Note F – Real Estate Held for Sale in the notes to the consolidated financial statement under Part II, Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Under applicable environmental laws, any owner of real property may be fully liable for the costs involved in cleaning up any contamination by materials hazardous to the environment. Even though we might be entitled to indemnification from the person that caused the contamination, there is no assurance that the responsible person would be able to indemnify us to the full extent of our liability. Furthermore, we would still have court and administrative expenses for which we may not be entitled to indemnification. Our results are subject to fluctuations in interest rates and other economic conditions. Our results of operations will vary with changes in interest rates and with the performance of the relevant real estate markets. If the economy is healthy, we expect that more people will be borrowing money to acquire, develop or renovate real property. However, if the economy grows too fast, interest rates may increase too much and the cost of borrowing may become too expensive. Alternatively, if the economy enters a recession as we currently have experienced, real estate development may continue to slow. The slowdown in real estate lending may mean we will have fewer loans to acquire, thus reducing our revenues and dividends to stockholders. As a result of the current economic recession, our revenues and dividends have been reduced. Interest rate fluctuations may affect our operating results as follows: · If interest rates rise, borrowers under loans with monthly or quarterly principal payments may be compelled to extend their loans to decrease the principal paid with each payment because the interest component has increased. If this happens, we are likely to be at a greater risk of the borrower defaulting on the extended loan, and the increase in the interest rate on our loan may not be adequate compensation for the increased risk. Additionally, any fees paid to extend the loan are paid to our manager or affiliated mortgage brokers, not to us. Our revenues and dividends will decline if we are unable to reinvest at higher rates or if an increasing number of borrowers default on their loans; and · If interest rates decline, the amount we can charge as interest on our loans will also likely decline. Moreover, if a borrower should prepay obligations that have a higher interest rate from an earlier period, we will likely not be able to reinvest the funds in real estate loans earning that higher rate of interest. In the absence of a prepayment fee, we will receive neither the anticipated revenue stream at the higher rate nor any compensation for its loss. As of December 31, 2010, none of our loans had a prepayment penalty, although 8 of our loans, totaling approximately $10.1 million, had an exit fee. Out of the 8 loans with an exit fee, four loans, totaling approximately $8.2 million, were considered non-performing as of December 31, 2010. However, depending upon the amount by which interest rates decline, the amount of the exit fees is generally not significant in relation to the potential savings borrowers may realize as a result of prepaying their loans. We may have a lack of control over participations. We will consider investing in or purchasing loans jointly with other lenders and purchasers, some of whom might be affiliates of Vestin Mortgage. We will initially have, and will maintain a controlling interest as lead lender in participations with non-affiliates. Although it is not our intention to lose control, there is a risk that we will be unable to remain as the lead lender in the loans in which we participate in the future. In the event of participation with a publicly registered affiliate, the investment objectives of the participants shall be substantially identical. There shall be no duplicate fees. The compensation to the sponsors must be substantially identical, and the investment of each participant must be on substantially the same terms and conditions. Each participant shall have a right of first refusal to buy the other's interest if the co-participant decides to sell its interest. We will not participate in joint ventures or partnerships with affiliates that are not publicly registered except as permitted by applicable NASAA Guidelines or otherwise approved by the independent members of our board of directors. If our co-participant affiliate determines to sell its interest in the loan, there is no guarantee that we will have the resources to purchase such interest and we will have no control over a sale to a third party purchaser. -9- MANAGEMENT AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST RISKS Our manager and its affiliates faces conflicts of interest arising from fees received from borrowers. Affiliated mortgage brokers receive substantial fees from borrowers for transactions involving real estate loans. Many of these fees are paid on an up-front basis. In some cases, the affiliated mortgage brokers or our manager may be entitled to additional fees for loan extensions or modifications and loan assumptions, reconveyances and exit fees. These and other fees are described in greater detail in Executive Compensation. The affiliated mortgage brokers’ compensation is based on the volume and size of the real estate loans selected for us, regardless of their performance, which could create an incentive to make or extend riskier loans. Our interests may diverge from those of our manager, the affiliated mortgage brokers and Mr. Shustek to the extent that the affiliated mortgage brokers benefit from up-front fees that are not shared with us. Mortgage brokers will be receiving fees from borrowers that would otherwise increase our returns. When an affiliated mortgage broker receives all of these fees, our interests will diverge from those of our manager and Mr. Shustek when our manager decides whether we should charge the borrower higher interest rates or our manager’ affiliates should receive higher fees from borrowers. We paid our manager a management fee of approximately $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. In addition, Vestin Mortgage and Vestin Originations received a total of approximately $50,000 and $1.8 million, respectively, in fees directly from borrowers for the year ended December 31, 2010. The amounts received from borrowers represent fees earned by Vestin Mortgage and Vestin Originations for loans originated for all funds managed by Vestin Mortgage, including us, VRM II and Fund III. Our assets represented approximately 17% of the assets managed by Vestin Mortgage as of December 31, 2010. We rely on our manager to manage our day-to-day operations and select our loans for investment. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives and to pay dividends to our shareholders depends upon our manager’s and its affiliate’s performance in obtaining, processing, making and brokering loans for us to invest in and determining the financing arrangements for borrowers. Stockholders have no opportunity to evaluate the financial information or creditworthiness of borrowers, the terms of mortgages, the real property that is our collateral or other economic or financial data concerning our loans. We pay our manager an annual management fee of up to 0.25% of our aggregate capital received by us and Fund I from the sale of shares or membership units. This fee is payable regardless of the performance of our loan portfolio. Our manager’s duties to our stockholders are generally governed by the terms of the Management Agreement, rather than by common law principles of fiduciary duty. Moreover, our manager is not required to devote its employees’ full time to our business and may devote time to business interests competitive to our business. Our manager’s lack of experience with certain real estate markets could impact its ability to make prudent investments on our behalf. As of December 31, 2010, our loans were in the following states: Arizona, California, Nevada, Oregon and Texas. Depending on the market and on our company’s performance, we may expand our investments throughout the United States. However, our manager has limited experience outside of the Western and Southwestern United States. Real estate markets vary greatly from location to location and the rights of secured real estate lenders vary considerably from state to state. Our manager’s limited experience in most U.S. real estate markets may impact its ability to make prudent investment decisions on our behalf. Accordingly, where our manager deems it necessary, it plans to utilize independent real estate advisors and local legal counsel located in markets where it lacks experience for consultation prior to making investment decisions. Stockholders will not have an opportunity to evaluate the qualifications of such advisors and no assurance can be given that they will render prudent advice to our manager. Our success depends on certain key personnel, the loss of whom could adversely affect our operating results, and on our manager’s ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our success depends in part upon the continued contributions of Michael V. Shustek (Chief Executive Officer and President). Mr. Shustek has extensive experience in our line of business, extensive market contacts and familiarity with our company. If Mr. Shustek were to cease his employment with our manager, he might be difficult to replace and our operating results could suffer. None of the key personnel of our manager is subject to an employment, non-competition or confidentiality agreement with our manager or us, and we do not maintain “key man” life insurance policies on any of them. Our future success also depends upon our manager’s ability to hire and retain additional highly skilled managerial, operational and marketing personnel. Our manager may require additional operations and marketing people who are experienced in obtaining, processing, making and brokering loans and who also have contacts in the relevant markets. Competition for personnel is intense, and we cannot be assured that we will be successful in attracting and retaining skilled personnel. If our manager were unable to attract and retain key personnel, the ability of our manager to make prudent investment decisions on our behalf may be impaired. Vestin Mortgage serves as our manager pursuant to a long-term Management Agreement that may be difficult to terminate and does not reflect arm’s length negotiations. We have entered into a long-term Management Agreement with Vestin Mortgage to act as our manager. The term of the Management Agreement is for the duration of our existence. The Management Agreement may only be terminated upon the affirmative vote of a majority in interest of stockholders entitled to vote on the matter or by our board of directors for cause upon 90 days’ written notice of termination. Consequently, it may be difficult to terminate our Management Agreement and replace our manager in the event that our performance does not meet expectations or for other reasons unless the conditions for termination of the Management Agreement are satisfied. The Management Agreement was negotiated by related parties and may not reflect terms as favorable as those subject to arm’s length bargaining. Our manager faces conflicts of interest concerning the allocation of its personnel’s time. Our manager is also the manager of VRM II and Fund III. VRM II is a company with investment objectives similar to ours and Fund III is in the process of an orderly liquidation of its assets. Our manager and Mr. Shustek, who indirectly owns a majority of our manager, anticipate that they may also sponsor other real estate programs having investment objectives similar to ours. As a result, our manager and Mr. Shustek may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time and resources between our business and other activities. During times of intense activity in other programs and ventures, our manager and its key people will likely devote less time and resources to our business than they ordinarily would. Our Management Agreement with our manager does not specify a minimum amount of time and attention that our manager and its key people are required to devote to our company. Thus, our manager may not spend sufficient time managing our operations, which could result in our not meeting our investment objectives. Our manager faces conflicts of interest relating to other investments in real estate loans. We expect to invest in real estate loans when one or more other companies managed by our manager are also investing in real estate loans. There is a risk that our manager may select for us a real estate loan investment that provides lower returns than a real estate loan investment purchased by another program or entity managed by our manager. Our manager is also the manager of VRM II and Fund III. VRM II is a company with investment objectives similar to ours and Fund III is in the process of an orderly liquidation of its assets. There are no restrictions or guidelines on how our manager will determine which loans are appropriate for us and which are appropriate for VRM II or another company that our manager manages. Moreover, our manager has no obligation to provide us with any particular opportunities or even a pro rata share of opportunities afforded to other companies it manages. -10- Our manager may face conflicts of interest in considering a possible combination of the Company with VRM II. VRM II is a company which engages in making mortgage loans similar to the loans that we make and is managed by our manager. There may be cost savings and operating synergies that could be achieved by our combination with VRM II. Our management has evaluated issues relevant to a possible combination and at this time, no decision has been made with respect to whether a combination will be pursued, or with respect to the possible form of any such combination. Since our manager owes a duty to the investors in each of these entities, it could face a conflict of interest in considering such a possible combination. Any decision with respect to a proposed combination with VRM II will most likely be subject to the approval of our independent directors and stockholders as well as the approval of VRM II’s Board of Directors and stockholders. UNITED STATES FEDERAL INCOME TAX RISKS RELATING TO OUR REIT QUALIFICATION Our failure to qualify as a REIT would subject us to U.S. federal income tax, which would reduce amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code. Our qualification as a REIT requires us to satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. We intend that our organization and method of operation will enable us to qualify as a REIT, but we may not so qualify or we may not be able to remain so qualified in the future. Future legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT or adversely affect our stockholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at corporate rates, and we would not be allowed to deduct dividends made to our stockholders in computing our taxable income. We may also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we failed to qualify. The additional tax liability would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders. In addition, we would no longer be required to declare dividends to our stockholders. Even if we continue to qualify as a REIT, we will continue to be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. Dividends from a REIT are currently taxed at a higher rate than corporate dividends. Under the Tax Relief and Reconciliation Act of 2003, the maximum U.S. federal income tax rate on both dividends from certain domestic and foreign corporations and net long-term capital gain for individuals was reduced to 15% until 2008. The Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2005, which signed into law on May 17, 2006, extended the 15% long-term net capital gain rate to 2010. On December 17, 2010 the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010 was signed into law; this extended the 15% long-term net capital gain rate to 2012. However, this reduced rate of tax on dividends generally will not apply to our dividends (except those dividends identified by the company as “capital gain dividends” which are taxable as long-term capital gain) and therefore such dividends generally will be taxed as ordinary income. Ordinary income generally is subject to U.S. federal income tax rate at a rate of up to 35% for individuals. The higher tax rate on our dividends may cause the market to devalue our common stock relative to stock of those corporations whose dividends qualify for the lower rate of taxation. Please note that, as a general matter, dividends from a REIT will be taxed at the same rate as stockholders’ share of Vestin Realty Mortgage I’s taxable income attributable to its realized net interest income. A portion of our business is potentially subject to prohibited transactions tax. As a REIT, we are subject to a 100% tax on our net income from “prohibited transactions.” In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property to customers in the ordinary course of business. Sales by us of property in the course of our business will generally constitute prohibited transactions. We intend to avoid the 100% prohibited transactions tax on property foreclosed upon by Fund I prior to the REIT conversion by holding and selling such properties through one or more wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiaries. However, under the Code, no more than 25% of the value of the assets of a REIT may be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries and a taxable REIT subsidiary generally cannot operate a lodging or health care facility. As of December 31, 2010, we held five properties with a total carrying value of approximately $2.9 million recorded as investments in real estate held for sale and no properties in which we or an affiliate provided the financing, recorded as real estate held for sale – seller financed. United States generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) requires us to include real estate held for sale – seller financed until the borrower has met and maintained certain requirements. The real estate held for sale collectively constituted approximately 12% of our assets as of December 31, 2010. Taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to corporate-level tax, which may devalue our common stock relative to other companies. Taxable REIT subsidiaries are corporations subject to corporate-level tax. Our use of taxable REIT subsidiaries may cause the market to value its common stock lower than the stock of other publicly traded REITs which may not use taxable REIT subsidiaries and lower than the equity of mortgage pools taxable as non-publicly traded partnerships such as Fund I’s intended qualification prior to the REIT conversion, which generally are not subject to any U.S. federal income taxation on their income and gain. Our use of taxable REIT subsidiaries may have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. We must comply with various tests to continue to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and our income from and investments in taxable REIT subsidiaries generally do not constitute permissible income and investments for purposes of the REIT qualification tests. While we will attempt to ensure that our dealings with our taxable REIT subsidiaries will not adversely affect our REIT qualification, we cannot be assured that we will successfully achieve that result. Furthermore, we may be subject to a 100% penalty tax, or our taxable REIT subsidiaries may be denied deductions, to the extent our dealings with our taxable REIT subsidiaries are not deemed to be arm’s length in nature. We may endanger our REIT status if the dividends we receive from our taxable REIT subsidiaries exceed applicable REIT gross income tests. The annual gross income tests that must be satisfied to ensure REIT qualification may limit the amount of dividends that we can receive from our taxable REIT subsidiaries and still maintain our REIT status. Generally, not more than 25% of our gross income can be derived from non-real estate related sources, such as dividends from a taxable REIT subsidiary. If, for any taxable year, the dividends we receive from our taxable REIT subsidiaries, when added to our other items of non-real estate related income, represent more than 25% of our total gross income for the year, we could be denied REIT status, unless we were able to demonstrate, among other things, that our failure of the gross income test was due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect. -11- We may lose our REIT status if we issue shares under our stockholders’ rights plan. Under Section 562(c) of the Code, a REIT generally cannot make a distribution unless the distribution is pro rata, with no preference to any share of stock as compared to other shares of the same class of stock. A REIT that is not in compliance with this requirement may lose its REIT status. Under our stockholders’ rights plan, upon certain events, some holders of our common stock and not others will have the right to acquire shares of Series A preferred stock. When effective, this right could be treated as a deemed distribution to those holders of our common stock entitled to the right with no distribution to other such holders. Thus, this right, when effective, could be treated as a distribution that is not consistent with the requirements of Section 562(c) of the Code, which could result in the loss of our REIT qualification. RISK OF OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock since trading commenced on June 1, 2006 to December 31, 2010, has ranged from $0.25 to $7.48. We own a significant level of non-performing assets and our sector of the market has suffered from the problems encountered by other lenders. Our stock price may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Our Company will be dissolved on December 31, 2019 unless the holders of a majority of our common stock determine otherwise. As we move closer to the dissolution date, we expect to stop making new loans and our stock price could approach our book value per share. However, no assurance can be given that the stock price will approach book value and then prevailing market conditions may affect the price of our stock even as we near 2019. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors, many of which are beyond our control, that could negatively affect our stock price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: · Increases in loans defaulting or becoming non-performing or being written off; · Actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or dividends; · Publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry; · Changes in market valuations of similar companies; · Changes in tax laws affecting REITs; · Litigation; · Adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future; and · General market and economic conditions. Market interest rates could have an adverse effect on our stock price. One of the factors that will influence the price of our common stock will be the dividend yield on our common stock (as a percentage of the price of our common stock) relative to market interest rates. Thus, an increase in market interest rates may lead prospective purchasers of our common stock to expect a higher dividend yield, a lack of which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are required to restate our financials for the periods ending September 30, 2010 and we have determined that such restatement is the result of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require additional restatements, or our filings may not be timely and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in each Annual Report on Form 10-K. On March 18, 2011, our Audit Committee determined, upon advice of management, that the financial statements included in the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2010 (the “Previously Issued Financial Statements”) should be restated because they contained an error addressed in Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement of Financial Accounting Standards Codification Topic 250, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections. Accordingly, we concluded that the Previously Issued Financial Statements should not be relied upon. We intend to correct the error by including restated financial statements in an amendment to its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010. Real estate held for sale (“REO”) includes real estate acquired through foreclosure of a loan. Pursuant to Accounting Standards Codification 310-10-40-3, REO is carried at the lower of the recorded amount, inclusive of any senior indebtedness, or the property's estimated fair value, less estimated costs to sell, with fair value based on appraisals and knowledge of local market conditions. It is not our intent to invest in or to own real estate as a long-term investment; consequently, we generally seek to sell properties acquired through foreclosure as quickly as circumstances permit, taking into account current economic conditions. The error in the Previously Issued Financial Statements related to the classification of our resulting investment in the existing business and related real estate following the foreclosure of the Rightstar International loan (the “Foreclosure”) in July 2010. Traditionally, the Company funds loans for the purchase of property to be developed, and the collateral on the loan is that property. As such, the Company initially recorded the Foreclosure as REO. However, upon completion of the Foreclosure, the Company acquired both the foreclosed property and a noncontrolling membership interest in Hawaii Funeral Services, LLC, which operates the existing mortuary and cemetery business of Rightstar. Because the existing business generates revenue, our acquisition of a membership interest in Hawaii Funeral Services, LLC should have been recorded as an investment in an Equity Method Investee – Held for Sale, and this noncontrolling interest should have been recorded in the financial statements as an asset of the Company, separately from REO. Management is currently determining the impact of this error on the Previously Issued Financial Statements. Our evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures in association with our assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over the Previous Financial Statements determined that we did not maintain effective controls because we did not design and implement adequate controls related to the accounting of foreclosure transactions, specifically, in this instance, applying consolidation guidance to determine whether and how to consolidate another entity as it relates to investments held by us and VRM II. We have adopted various remedial measures to improve our disclosure controls and procedures. A more detailed description of these material weaknesses and the remedial measures adopted is set forth in Part II Item 9A “Controls and Procedures” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. -12- Any failure to maintain or implement improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our periodic reports, including the financial statements included in such reports. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations regarding disclosure controls and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and adversely impact our stock price. In addition, we might be exposed to legal claims by investors or enforcement proceedings by the SEC as a result of our issuing any financial statements which subsequently have to be restated. The defense of any such proceedings could result in diversion of cash resources and management time from more productive uses, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. Our charter documents and Maryland law contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a change of control transaction. Our charter and bylaws and Maryland corporate law contain a number of provisions (as further described in exhibit 3.2 Bylaws of the Registrant under the Exhibit Index included in Part IV, Item 15 – Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules of this Annual Report on Form 10-K) that could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control of us that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or otherwise be in their best interests, including: · Ownership Limit. Our Board of Directors had agreed to allow Michael Shustek, our Chief Executive Officer and President, to purchase shares of our common stock that would exceed the then-applicable ownership limit of 9.8%. To accommodate additional purchases by Mr. Shustek, and in accordance with our articles of incorporation, our Board of Directors had increased the ownership limit applicable to Mr. Shustek to 15% and concurrently decreased the ownership limit applicable to all of our other stockholders to 8.749%. Based on our records and our review of SEC filings, other than Mr. Shustek, we do not believe that any stockholder has beneficially owned or currently owned more than 8.479% of our common stock. Our Board of Directors expect these changes to the ownership limit to remain effective for the foreseeable future · Staggered Board. Our board of directors is divided into three classes, with each class serving staggered three-year terms. This classification of our board of directors may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in our control or management. · Removal of Directors. Directors may be removed only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of stockholders holding at least a majority of the shares then outstanding and entitled to be cast for the election of directors. · Stockholders’ Rights Plan. We have a stockholders’ rights plan that enables our board of directors to deter coercive or unfair takeover tactics and to prevent a person or a group from gaining control of us without offering a fair price to all stockholders. Unless our board of directors approves the person’s or group’s purchase, after that person gains control of us, all other stockholders will have the right to purchase securities from us at a price that is less than their then fair market value. Purchases by other stockholders would substantially reduce the value and influence of the shares of our common stock owned by the acquiring person or group. Our board of directors, however, can prevent the stockholders’ rights plan from operating in this manner. This gives our board of directors’ significant discretion to approve or disapprove a person’s or group’s efforts to acquire a large interest in us. · Duties of Directors with Respect to Unsolicited Takeovers. Under Maryland law, a director is required to perform his or her duties (a) in good faith, (b) in a manner he or she believes to be in the best interests of the corporation and (c) with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. Maryland law provides protection for Maryland corporations against unsolicited takeovers by, among other things, retaining the same standard of care in the performance of the duties of directors in unsolicited takeover situations. The duties of directors of Maryland corporations do not require them to (a) accept, recommend or respond to any proposal by a person seeking to acquire control of the corporation, (b) authorize the corporation to redeem any rights under, or modify or render inapplicable, any stockholders rights plan, (c) make a determination under Maryland Business Combination Act or Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act or (d) act or fail to act solely because of the effect of the act or failure to act may have on an acquisition or potential acquisition of control of the corporation or the amount or type of consideration that may be offered or paid to the stockholders in an acquisition. Moreover, under Maryland law the act of the directors of a Maryland corporation relating to or affecting an acquisition or potential acquisition of control is not subject to any higher duty or greater scrutiny than is applied to any other act of a director. Maryland law also contains a statutory presumption that an act of a director of a Maryland corporation satisfies the applicable standards of conduct for directors under Maryland law. · Maryland General Corporation Law. Certain provisions of the MGCL may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of such shares, including: · “Business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of our then outstanding voting shares) or an affiliate thereof for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter imposes special appraisal rights and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and · “Control share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of our company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. · We have opted out of the control share provisions of the MGCL pursuant to a provision in our bylaws. However, our board of directors may by amendment to our bylaws opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future. · Advance Notice of Director Nominations and Stockholder Proposals. Our bylaws impose certain advance notice requirements that must be met for nominations of persons for election to the board of directors and the proposal of business to be considered by stockholders. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited. Maryland law provides that a director has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. Our charter limits the liability of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from: · Actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or -13- · A final judgment based upon a finding of active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was material to the cause of action adjudicated. In addition, our articles of incorporation authorize us to obligate our company, and our bylaws require us, to indemnify our directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist under common law. Accordingly, in the event that actions taken in good faith by any of our directors or officers impede the performance of our company, stockholders’ ability to recover damages from such director or officer will be limited. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not required. 