Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may adversely impact our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any or all of these risks. 19 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Business The telecommunications industry is generally characterized by rapid development, introduction of new technologies, substantial regulatory changes and intense competition, any of which could cause us to suffer price reductions, customer losses, reduced operating margins and/or loss of market share. The telecommunications industry has been, and we believe will continue to be, characterized by several trends, including the following: • rapid development and introduction of new technologies and services, such as VoIP, location based services such as GPS mapping technology and high speed data services, including streaming video, mobile gaming and other applications that use EV-DO, Wi-Max, LTE, Femtocells or other technologies; • substantial regulatory change due to the continuing efforts of the FCC to reform intercarrier compensation, to modify USF availability, and to limit availability of UNEs used by CLECs under the Telecommunications Act of 1996; • increased competition within established markets from current and new market entrants that may provide competing or alternative services; • an increase in mergers and strategic alliances that allow one telecommunications provider to offer increased services or access to wider geographic markets; and • the blurring of traditional dividing lines between, and the bundling of, different services, such as local telephone, long distance, wireless, video, data and internet services. We expect competition to intensify as a result of new competitors and the development of new technologies, products and services. Some or all of these trends may cause us to have to spend significantly more in capital expenditures than we currently anticipate in order to keep existing, and attract new, customers. Many of our voice and data competitors, such as cable providers, wireless service providers, internet access providers and long distance carriers have brand recognition and financial, personnel, marketing and other resources that are significantly greater than ours. In addition, due to consolidation and strategic alliances within the telecommunications industry, we cannot predict the number of competitors that will emerge, especially as a result of existing or new federal and state regulatory or legislative actions. Such increased competition from existing and new entities could lead to price reductions, loss of customers, reduced operating margins and/or loss of market share. As competition develops and technology evolves, federal and state regulation of the telecommunications industry continues to change rapidly. We anticipate that this state of regulatory flux will persist in the future, as the FCC and state regulators respond to competitive, technological, and legislative developments by modifying their existing regulations or adopting new ones. Taken together or individually, new or changed regulatory requirements affecting any or all of the wireless, local, and long distance industries may harm our business and restrict the manner in which we operate our business. The enactment of adverse regulation or regulatory requirements may slow our growth and have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that changes in current or future regulations adopted by the FCC or state regulators, or other legislative, administrative or judicial initiatives relating to the communications industry, would not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, pending congressional legislative efforts to reform the Communications Act may cause major industry and regulatory changes that are difficult to predict. Adverse economic conditions may harm our business. Economic conditions have been deteriorating and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Unfavorable economic conditions, including the recession and recent disruptions to the credit and financial markets, could cause customers to slow spending. If demand for our services decreases, our revenues would be adversely affected and churn may increase. In addition, during challenging economic times our customers may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which may impair the ability of our customers to pay for services they have purchased. Any of the above could have a material effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 20 Table of Contents We are also susceptible to risks associated with the potential financial instability of the vendors and third parties on which we rely to provide services or to which we outsource certain functions. The same economic conditions that may affect our customers could also adversely affect vendors and third parties and lead to significant increases in prices, reduction in quality or the bankruptcy of our vendors or third parties upon which we rely. Any interruption in the services provided by our vendors or by third parties could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operating and cash flows. Our leverage could adversely affect our financial health. As of December 31, 2008, our total outstanding debt on a consolidated basis, including capital lease obligations, was approximately $607.9 million. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and business and future operations by, among other things: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions by making it more difficult for us to react quickly to changing conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain any additional financing we may need to operate, develop and expand our business; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flows from operations to service our debt, which reduces the funds available for operations and future business opportunities; • potentially making us more highly leveraged than our competitors, which could potentially decrease our ability to compete in our industry; • exposing us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because some of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, and the industry in which we operate. The ability to make payments on our debt will depend upon our subsidiaries’ future operating performance, which is subject to general economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which we cannot control. If the cash flows from our subsidiaries’ operating activities are insufficient to service our debt obligations, we may take actions, such as delaying or reducing capital expenditures, reducing or eliminating our quarterly cash dividend, attempting to restructure or refinance our debt, selling assets or operations or seeking additional equity capital. Any or all of these actions may not be sufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations. Further, we may be unable to take any of these actions on satisfactory terms, in a timely manner or at all. The NTELOS Inc. senior secured credit facility limits our subsidiaries’ ability to take several of these actions. Our failure to generate sufficient funds to pay our debts or to successfully undertake any of these actions could, among other things, materially adversely affect our ability to repay our obligations under our indebtedness. The NTELOS Inc. senior secured credit facility imposes operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some corporate actions. The NTELOS Inc. senior secured credit facility imposes operating and financial restrictions on our subsidiaries. These restrictions generally: • restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional indebtedness; • restrict our subsidiaries from entering into transactions with affiliates; • restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of their assets; • impose financial covenants relating to the business of our subsidiaries, including leverage and interest coverage ratios; • require our subsidiaries to use specified amounts of “excess cash flow” (as defined in the agreement) to repay indebtedness if our leverage ratio reaches specified levels; and • restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make advances to us to grant dividends. 21 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that those covenants will not adversely affect our ability to pay dividends or repurchase stock, finance our future operations or capital needs or pursue available business opportunities. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the NTELOS Inc. senior secured credit facility. If a default occurs, our indebtedness under the NTELOS Inc. senior secured credit facility could be declared immediately due and payable. As a result of general economic conditions, conditions in the lending markets, the results of our business or for any other reason, we may elect or be required to amend or refinance our indebtedness, at or prior to maturity, or enter into additional agreements for senior indebtedness. We will require a significant amount of cash, which may not be available to us, to service our debt and fund our other liquidity needs. Based on our total debt outstanding as of December 31, 2008 of $607.9 million, which includes capital lease obligations, we expect payments on our outstanding indebtedness to be approximately $6.7 million in 2009. The aggregate maturities of our long-term debt based on the contractual terms of the instruments are $6.7 million in 2009, $154.0 million in 2010, $446.9 million in 2011, $0.2 million in 2012 and less than $0.1 million thereafter. Our ability to make payments on, or to refinance or repay, our debt, fund planned capital expenditures, pay quarterly cash dividends and expand our business will depend largely upon our future operating performance. Our future operating performance is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate enough cash flow, or future borrowings may not be available to us under the NTELOS Inc. senior secured credit facility or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or fund our other liquidity needs. Additionally, if we were to borrow under our revolving credit facility to obtain additional capital, we would be required to repay such borrowings by the February 24, 2010 expiration date of this facility. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to service our debt requirements, we will be required to refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt under such circumstances, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. This risk would be exacerbated if capital market conditions do not improve over current conditions. If we are unable to refinance our debt or obtain new financing under these circumstances, we would have to consider other options, including, sales of certain assets to meet our debt service requirements, sales of equity and negotiations with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt. NTELOS Inc.’s senior secured credit facility could restrict our ability to do some of these things. If we are forced to pursue any of the above options under distressed conditions, our business could be adversely affected. Wireless Telecommunications We face substantial competition in the wireless telecommunications industry generally from competitors with substantially greater resources than we have that may be able to offer new technologies, services covering a broader geographical area and lower prices, which could decrease our profitability and cause prices for our services to continue to decline in the future. We operate in a very competitive environment. Our wireless business faces intense competition from other wireless providers, including Verizon Wireless, Alltel, T-Mobile, AT&T Wireless, U.S. Cellular and Sprint Nextel (including its network managers (formerly referred to as its affiliates) and resellers, such as Virgin Mobile USA). Competition for customers is based principally upon services and features offered, system coverage, technical quality of the wireless system, price, customer service and network capacity. Our ability to compete will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the telecommunications industry. Some of the carriers with which we compete provide wireless services using cellular frequencies in the 800 MHz band and in the future will use 700 MHz frequencies that were recently auctioned by the FCC. These frequencies enjoy propagation advantages over the PCS and AWS spectrum we currently hold, which may cause us to have to spend more capital than our competitors to achieve the same coverage. Consolidation continues in the wireless industry with the combinations of Verizon and Alltel, Sprint and Nextel, AT&T’s acquisition of 100% ownership of AT&T Wireless as well as its acquisition of Dobson, the acquisitions by Verizon Wireless of Rural Cellular and by T-Mobile of Suncom. These and other of our competitors are, or are affiliated with, major communications companies that have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. These competitors may have greater name recognition and more established relationships with a larger base of current and potential customers and, accordingly, we may not be able to compete successfully. Two of our national wireless competitors acquired a significant portion of the 700 MHz spectrum recently auctioned by the FCC. The national wireless carriers in many instances on average have more spectrum in each of our licensed areas than we do. We may not be able to obtain additional spectrum and thus may be unable to offer future developed services which utilize PCS spectrum or offer services developed for other specific spectrum as a result of not having as much spectrum, or as much spectrum in specific bands, as our competitors do. 22 Table of Contents In addition, each of the four largest wireless carriers offers handsets for which that carrier has the exclusive right to provide customers. Recent estimates are that over 50 handset models are under exclusive arrangements with these carriers. We do not have exclusivity for any handset that we provide to our customers and are unable to provide the handsets that are available exclusively from other carriers. We may be unable to attract some new customers, and we may lose existing customers, because of our inability to offer these handsets. Over the last three years, the per-minute rate for wireless services has declined. Competition and market saturation may cause the prices for wireless products and services to continue to decline in the future. As per-minute rates continue to decline, our revenues and cash flows may be adversely impacted. The effect of aggregate penetration of wireless services in all markets, including our markets, has made it increasingly difficult to attract new customers and retain existing ones. While recent consolidation in the wireless industry may reduce the number of carriers in our markets, the carriers resulting from such consolidation will be larger and potentially more effective in their ability to compete with NTELOS. As a result of increased competition, we anticipate that the price per minute for wireless voice services will continue to decline while costs to acquire customers, including, without limitation, handset subsidies and advertising and promotion costs, may increase. Our ability to continue to compete effectively will depend upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changes in technology, customer preferences, new service offerings, demographic trends, economic conditions and competitors’ pricing strategies. Failure to successfully market our products and services or to adequately and timely respond to competitive factors could reduce our market share or adversely affect our revenue or net income. In the current wireless market, our ability to compete also depends on our ability to offer regional and national calling plans to our customers. NTELOS relies on roaming agreements with other wireless carriers to provide service in areas not covered by our network. These agreements are subject to renewal and termination if certain events occur, including, without limitation, if network standards are not maintained. If NTELOS is unable to maintain or renew these agreements, our ability to continue to provide competitive regional and nationwide wireless service to our customers could be impaired, which, in turn, would have an adverse impact on our wireless operations. We expect competition to intensify as a result of the rapid development of new technologies, including improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology, such as the move to EV-DO and Wi-Max wireless technologies. Several wireless carriers, including Verizon Wireless and Sprint Nextel, have upgraded or announced plans to upgrade all or parts of their 3G networks to include EV-DO, which provides broadband wireless services at rates faster than the 3G one times radio transmission, or 1xRTT, technology. We have upgraded our network to EV-DO, with over 70% of the cell sites EV-DO capable as of December 31, 2008, and we anticipate that approximately 85% of the cell sites will be upgraded to EV-DO by mid-year 2009. We will continue to the utilize 1xRTT technology in areas where the demand for high speed data service is less. Competitors continue to explore further technological advances such as Wi-Max and LTE which could cause the technology used on our network to become dated. We may not be able to respond to future changes and implement new technology on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. To the extent that we do not keep pace with technological advances, fail to offer technologies comparable to those of our competitors or fail to respond timely to changes in competitive factors in our industry, we could lose existing customers and experience a decline in revenues and net income. Each of these factors and sources of competition discussed above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we experience a high rate of wireless customer turnover or seek to prevent significant customer turnover, our revenues could decline and our costs could increase. Many wireless providers in the U.S. have experienced and have sought to prevent a high rate of customer turnover. The rate of customer turnover may be the result of several factors, including limited network coverage, reliability issues such as blocked or dropped calls, handset problems, inability to roam onto third-party networks at competitive rates, or at all, price competition and affordability, customer care concerns, wireless number portability requirements that allow customers to keep their wireless phone number when switching between service providers and other competitive factors. In addition, customers could elect to switch to another carrier that has service offerings dependent on newer network technology. We cannot assure you that our strategies to address customer turnover will be successful. If we experience a high rate of wireless customer turnover or seek to prevent significant customer turnover or fail to replace lost customers, our revenues could decline and our costs could increase which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 23 Table of Contents The loss of our largest customer, Sprint Nextel, or a decrease in its usage may result in lower revenues or higher expenses. Sprint Nextel accounted for approximately 22.0% of our operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. If we were to lose Sprint Nextel as a customer or if Sprint Nextel became financially unable to pay our charges, our revenues would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Additionally, if Sprint Nextel’s current financial condition should worsen in a material manner, our business would suffer material adverse consequences which could include termination or revision of our Strategic Network Alliance. Also, Sprint Nextel acquired controlling ownership interest in Nextel Partners Inc., a wireless affiliate of Sprint Nextel, in 2006. Unlike Sprint Nextel, Nextel Partners owns a wireless network in all of the territory covered by our Strategic Network Alliance. Any future migration by Sprint Nextel of customers to non-CDMA technology could result in a decline in the usage of our network by Sprint Nextel and could cause an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. Continued decline in Sprint Nextel’s subscriber base could have an adverse effect on its long-term growth, financial condition and strategic direction, which could, in turn, have an adverse effect on our wireless wholesale revenues under the Strategic Network Alliance. The pricing arrangement under our Strategic Network Alliance with Sprint Nextel may fluctuate which could result in lower revenues or a decline in the historical growth of our wholesale wireless revenues. Under the Strategic Network Alliance, our wholesale revenues effective July 1, 2007, will be the greater of $8.0 million per month ($9.0 million per month in the calendar month after 98% of our cell sites are upgraded to EV-DO in this wholesale area) or the revenues derived based on voice and data usage by Sprint Nextel of our network priced at the applicable rates and terms for each of the services categories. We attained the 98% threshold during the fourth quarter of 2008 and our actual revenue based on voice and data usage exceeded the $9.0 million per month minimum during the fourth quarter 2008 and is expected to continue to exceed this level throughout the first half of 2009. However, travel data rates will be reset effective July 1, 2009 and quarterly thereafter. We anticipate that this reset will result in a significant rate reduction for this element and that the total revenues after this reset will be at the $9.0 million minimum for at least the remainder of 2009. All of the rate elements generally fluctuate for the periods specified for each service under the agreement under a formula tied to a national wireless retail customer revenue yield and a national retail data revenue yield. Sprint Nextel prices its national calling plans based on its business objectives and it could set price levels or change other characteristics of its plans in a way that may not be economically advantageous for our business or may result in reduction of usage from Sprint Nextel customers. Accordingly, we could remain at the $9.0 million minimum longer for a period longer than we anticipate which could impact our longer term profitability. If the roaming rates we pay for our customers’ usage of third-party networks increase, our operating results may decline. Many of our competitors have national networks which enable them to more economically offer roaming and long-distance telephone services to their subscribers. We do not have a national network, and we must pay other carriers a per-minute charge for carrying roaming and long-distance calls made by our subscribers. To remain competitive, we absorb a substantial portion of the roaming and long-distance charges without increasing the prices we charge to our subscribers. We have entered into roaming agreements with other communications providers that govern the roaming rates that we are required to pay. As the wireless industry consolidates, our ability to replicate our roaming service offerings at rates which will make us, or allow us to be, competitive is uncertain at this time and may become more difficult. The roaming agreements do not cover all geographic areas where our customers may seek service when they travel and a number of the roaming agreements may be terminated on relatively short notice and may not be renewed in the future. In addition, we believe the rates we are charged by certain carriers in some instances are higher than the rates they charge to other roaming partners. We may also be unable to continue to receive roaming services in areas in which we hold licenses or lease spectrum after the expiration or termination of our existing roaming agreements. Any future renewal also may not include roaming for data services. In addition, under the terms of our Strategic Network Alliance, we have favorable roaming rates with Sprint Nextel. If these roaming agreements are terminated, the roaming rates that we are charged may increase and, accordingly, our cash flow and operating results may decline. 24 Table of Contents We may incur significantly higher wireless handset subsidy costs than we anticipate to upgrade existing subscribers. As our subscriber base grows, and technological innovations occur, more existing subscribers are upgrading to new wireless handsets, especially handsets that offer more applications including data-centric and smart phones. We subsidize a portion of the price of wireless handsets and incur sales commissions on the sale or upgrade of handsets. The cost of handsets increase with an increase in features, functionality, and the number of applications they support. This results in our incurring higher handset subsidies. Furthermore, we generally pay more to purchase handsets than many of our national competitors who buy from manufacturers in large volumes. If more subscribers purchase or upgrade to new wireless handsets than we project, our operating results would be adversely affected during the period of the sale or upgrade. Our largest competitors and Sprint Nextel may build networks in our markets or use alternative suppliers, which may result in decreased revenues and severe price-based competition. Our current roaming partners, larger wireless providers and Sprint Nextel ultimately may build their own digital wireless networks in our service areas or obtain roaming services from alternative sources. In addition to controlling the iDEN network as a result of the acquisition of Nextel Partners, Sprint Nextel controls 10 MHz of spectrum within our service territory in the 1900 MHz PCS band. While the terms of our agreement generally prohibit Sprint Spectrum L.P. from directly or indirectly commencing construction of, contracting for or launching its own CDMA network in the Strategic Network Alliance service area until 18 months prior to termination of the agreement, the initial term of which ends on July 31, 2015, it would adversely affect our revenues and operating results if Sprint Nextel or another wireless provider were to do so. Should this occur, use of our networks would decrease and our roaming and/or wholesale revenues would be adversely affected. Once a digital wireless system is built, there are only marginal costs to carrying an additional call, so a larger number of facility-based competitors in our service areas could stimulate significant price competition, as has occurred in many areas in the U.S., with a resulting reduction in our revenues and operating results. The loss of our licenses could adversely affect our ability to provide wireless services. Our wireless licenses are generally valid for ten years from the effective date of the license. Licensees may renew their licenses for additional ten-year periods by filing renewal applications with the FCC. Our wireless licenses expire in various years. The renewal applications are subject to FCC review and potentially public comment to ensure that the licensees meet their licensing requirements and comply with other applicable FCC mandates. We applied for and were granted renewal of nineteen of our licenses between 2005 and 2007. We have six remaining licenses due to expire in June 2009 for which we will need to apply for renewal. If we fail to file for renewal of our other licenses at the appropriate time or fail to meet any regulatory requirements for renewal, we could be denied a license renewal and, accordingly, our ability to provide or continue to provide service in that license area would be adversely affected. Many of our licenses are subject to interim or final construction requirements. While the licensees have generally met “safe harbor” standards for ensuring such benchmarks are met, we have relied on, and will in the future rely on, “substantial service” thresholds for meeting build-out requirements. In such cases, there is no guarantee that the FCC will find our construction sufficient to meet the applicable construction requirement, in which case the FCC could terminate our license and our ability to continue to provide service in that license area would be adversely affected. We have executed a long term lease agreement and a license purchase agreement for the provision of assistance in meeting build-out requirements in two non-operational markets. These agreements will require us to transfer 15 MHz of C block spectrum in Wheeling, WV and 20 MHz of C block spectrum in Cumberland, MD. Accordingly, we have recorded an asset impairment charge of $1.4 million (included in depreciation and amortization on the Consolidated Statement of Operations) to reduce the carrying value of spectrum to the net fair value of the spectrum to be retained. If we are unable have these licenses perfected through the terms of these agreements or through other means of perfection, we would be at risk of losing these licenses and, accordingly, we would incur an additional asset impairment charge of $1.4 million, representing the remaining carrying value of these licenses. Our failure to comply with regulatory mandates could adversely affect our ability to provide wireless services. The FCC regulates the licensing, operation, acquisition and sale of the licensed spectrum that is essential to our business. We must comply with regulatory requirements, such as Enhanced 911, or E911, and CALEA and the customer privacy mandates of the Customer Proprietary Network Information (“CPNI”) rules. Failure to comply with these and other regulatory requirements may have an adverse effect on our licenses or operations and could result in sanctions, fines or other penalties. 25 Table of Contents On September 11, 2007, the FCC adopted an order mandating that wireless E911 location accuracy be measured on the public safety answering point (PSAP) level, but deferred effectiveness of the mandate for five years while requiring interim milestones. The FCC has since withdrawn that order and, on September 22, 2008, the FCC sought comments on a new proposal for E911 accuracy requirements for both handset-based and network-based technologies to achieve E911 accuracy compliance at the county-level. That proposal was filed by the Association of Public-Safety Communications Officials and the National Emergency Number Association, Verizon Wireless, Sprint Nextel Corporation, and AT&T. The FCC, together with the FAA, also regulates tower marking and lighting. In addition, tower construction is affected by federal, state and local statutes addressing zoning, environmental protection and historic preservation. The FCC adopted significant changes to its rules governing historic preservation review of projects, which makes it more difficult and expensive to deploy antenna facilities. The FCC is also considering changes to its rules regarding environmental protection as related to tower construction, which, if adopted, could make it more difficult to deploy facilities. Our decision not to participate at this time in the FCC’s new point-to-multipoint emergency alert capabilities program may result in increased churn or slower growth. In 2006, Congress passed the Warning, Alert, and Response Network Act which required the FCC to adopt technical standards and procedures to enable alerting capability for CMRS providers that voluntarily elect to transmit emergency alerts. The FCC adopted such a program in April of 2008. Under the Warning, Alert, and Response Network Act, a CMRS carrier can elect not to participate in providing such alerting capability and we have made such an election not to participate at this time. As a result of our election not to participate, we may experience slower growth and higher churn if subscribers do not purchase our service or terminate service because we have elected not to provide this capability. The licensing of additional spectrum by the FCC may adversely affect our ability to compete in providing wireless services. The FCC, from time to time, auctions additional radio spectrum that may be suitable for services that compete, directly or indirectly, with our wireless offerings. For example, in August and September of 2006, the FCC auctioned an additional 90 MHz of radio spectrum for “Advanced Wireless Services” that can be used for services like our wireless offerings. In early 2008, the FCC conducted an auction of additional wireless service spectrum in the 700 MHz range. We participated in the 2006 auction but decided not to participate in the 2008 auction. We may participate in other future auctions in order to obtain spectrum necessary to increase the capacity of our systems or to allow us to offer new services. The auction of new spectrum may adversely impact our business by creating new competitors, enhancing the ability of our existing competitors to offer services we cannot offer, requiring us to expend additional funds to acquire spectrum necessary for continued growth, or restricting our growth because we cannot acquire additional necessary spectrum. If we lose the right to install our equipment on wireless cell sites or are unable to renew expiring leases for wireless cell sites on favorable terms or at all, our business and operating results could be adversely impacted. As of December 31, 2008, 91% of our base stations were installed on leased cell site facilities, with 45% installed on facilities owned by American Tower and Crown Communications. A large portion of these cell sites are leased from a small number of large cell site companies, including American Tower and Crown Communications, pursuant to master agreements that govern the general terms of our use of that company’s cell sites. If a master agreement with one of these cell site companies were to terminate, or if one of these cell site companies were unable to support our use of its cell sites, we would have to find new sites or rebuild the affected portion of our network. In addition, the concentration of our cell site leases with a limited number of cell site companies could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition if we are unable to renew our expiring leases with these cell site companies either on terms comparable to those we have today or at all. If any of the cell site leasing companies with which we do business were to experience severe financial difficulties, or file for bankruptcy protection, our ability to use cell sites leased from that company could be adversely affected. If a material number of cell sites were no longer available for our use, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. The wireless telecommunications industry is experiencing significant technological change. We believe our continued success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate or adapt to technological changes and to offer, on a timely basis, services that meet customer demands. We cannot assure you that we will obtain access to new technology on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. For us to keep pace with these technological changes and remain competitive, we must continue to make significant capital expenditures to our integrated communications system. Customer acceptance of the services that we offer will continually be affected by technology-based differences in our product and service offerings. Some competitors, most notably Sprint Nextel, offer “push-to-talk.” We do not offer our customers a “push-to-talk” service. Competitors are also introducing LTE, a form of wireless broadband with significantly higher speeds than EV-DO. This technology will likely be introduced in 2010 in major metropolitan areas and may be introduced in our markets as well. Additionally, femtocells will likely be introduced in the near future. Femtocells are mini-cell sites that are portable and can be located in a home or office, thus improving wireless in-building coverage. They backhaul traffic over the users’ landline connection. In addition, some competitors have announced plans to develop a Wi-Fi or Wi-Max enabled handset. Such a handset would permit subscribers to communicate using voice and data services with their handset using VoIP technology in any area equipped with a wireless internet connection, or hot spot, potentially bypassing our network. The number of hot spots in the U.S. is growing rapidly, with some major cities and urban areas being covered entirely. The availability of VoIP or another alternative technology to our subscribers could greatly reduce the usage of our network, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. To accommodate next generation advanced wireless products such as “push-to-talk,” or data and streaming video at speeds significantly above that of EV-DO, we could be required to make significant technological changes to our network. We also may be required to purchase additional spectrum. We cannot assure you that we could make these technological changes or gain access to this spectrum at a reasonable cost or at all. Failure to provide these services could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete with wireless carriers offering these new technologies. We and our suppliers may be subject to claims of infringement regarding telecommunications technologies that are protected by patents and other intellectual property rights. In general, we do not manufacture any of the equipment or software used in our telecommunications businesses and we do not own any patents. Instead, we purchase the infrastructure equipment, handsets and software used in our business from third parties and we obtain licenses to use the associated intellectual property. Telecommunications technologies are protected by a wide variety of patents and other intellectual property rights. We and some of our suppliers and service providers may receive assertions and claims from third parties that the products or software utilized by us or our suppliers and service providers infringe on the patents or other intellectual property rights of these third parties. These claims could require us or an infringing supplier or service provider to cease certain activities or to cease selling the relevant products and services. The manufacturers and suppliers that provide us with the equipment and technology we use in our business may agree to indemnify us against possible infringement claims. However, we do not always have such indemnification protections in place and, even if we have such agreements in place, we may not be fully protected against all losses associated with infringement claims. In addition, the manufacturers and suppliers also may require us to indemnify them against infringement claims asserted against them with respect to equipment they sell to us. Whether or not infringement claims are valid or successful, such claims could also adversely affect our business by diverting management attention, involving us in costly and time-consuming litigation, requiring us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements (which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all), or requiring us to cease certain activities or to cease selling certain products and services to avoid claims of infringement. All suppliers of our CDMA handsets license intellectual property from Qualcomm Incorporated (“Qualcomm”). Some of this Qualcomm intellectual property has been found to infringe on certain patents owned by Broadcom Corporation (“Broadcom”). The International Trade Commission (“ITC”) has found that Qualcomm infringes certain of Broadcom’s intellectual property, and a United States district court recently enjoined Qualcomm from further infringement of other patents and from certain other activities. Although that injunction was effective immediately, the ruling contained a sunset provision for certain Qualcomm products, which was due to expire on January 31, 2009, that provided time for Qualcomm to modify its infringing products to avoid infringement. 27 Table of Contents On October 14, 2008, the U.S Court of Appeals vacated and remanded the ITC’s order that barred importation of devices that include the Qualcomm chips. Wireline Telecommunications Our rural local telephone company subsidiaries face substantial competition from competitors that are less heavily regulated than we are, which could increase our expenses or force us to lower prices, causing our revenues and operating results to decline. As the rural local telephone companies for the western Virginia communities of Waynesboro, Clifton Forge, Covington and portions of Botetourt and Augusta Counties, Virginia, we currently compete with a number of different providers, many of which are unregulated or less heavily regulated than we are. Our rural telephone company subsidiaries qualify as rural local telephone companies under the Telecommunications Act and are, therefore, exempt from many of the most burdensome obligations to facilitate the development of competition, such as the obligation to sell unbundled elements of our network to our competitors at “forward-looking” prices that the Telecommunications Act places on larger carriers. Nevertheless, our rural telephone company subsidiaries face significant competition, particularly from competitors that do not need to rely on access to our network to reach their customers. For example, wireless providers continue to increase their market share and pose a significant competitive risk to our business. A significant competitive development in 2006 was the acquisition by Comcast of the cable television markets in our service area previously served by Adelphia Communications Corporation. Comcast has introduced wireline digital voice services to its cable customers in Charlottesville and other Virginia markets, including in Waynesboro and Augusta County in May 2008, and it may offer these services in our Botetourt County service area in the future. Shenandoah Telecommunications Company purchased the cable property overlapping our RLEC territory in Clifton Forge and Covington, Virginia. We believe it is likely that Shenandoah will began providing digital voice and data services to its customers in these markets in the future. Cable providers have had significant success in other markets offering wireline voice services and, accordingly, this development could significantly harm our business. Cable companies and other VoIP providers are able to compete with our rural telephone company subsidiaries even though the “rural exemption” under the Telecommunications Act is in place. If our rural exemption were removed, CLECs could more easily enter our rural telephone company subsidiaries’ markets. Moreover, the regulatory environment governing wireline local operations has been, and we believe will likely continue to be, very liberal in its approach to promoting competition and network access. Consistent with the experience of other rural telephone companies, our rural telephone company subsidiaries have experienced a reduction in access lines caused by, among other things, customer migration to broadband internet service from dial-up internet service (resulting in a disconnection of “second lines”), wireless competition and business customer migration from Centrex services to IP-based and other PBX services using fewer lines. As penetration rates of these technologies increase in our markets, our revenues could decline. Our rural telephone company subsidiaries experienced a net loss of 2,403 access lines in the year ended December 31, 2008, or 5.5% of our access lines served at the end of 2007. A continued net loss of access lines would impact our revenues and operating results. Our rural telephone company subsidiaries are subject to several regulatory regimes and consequently face substantial regulatory burdens and uncertainties. Many of our competitors are unregulated or less heavily regulated than we are. For example, VoIP technology is used to carry voice communications services over a broadband internet connection. The FCC has ruled that VoIP services are jurisdictionally interstate and that some VoIP arrangements (those not using the Public Switched Telephone Network) are not subject to regulation as telephone services. In 2006, the FCC expanded the base of USF contributions by extending universal service contribution obligations to providers of interconnected VoIP service. The United States Supreme Court upheld the FCC’s ruling that cable broadband internet services are not subject to common carrier telecommunications regulation. In addition, the Virginia State Corporation Commission, or SCC, imposes service quality obligations on our rural telephone company subsidiaries and requires us to adhere to prescribed service quality standards, but many of our competitors are not subject to these standards. These standards measure the performance of various aspects of our business. If we fail to meet these standards, the SCC may impose fines or penalties or take other actions that may impact our revenues or increase our costs. 28 Table of Contents Regulatory developments at the FCC and the Virginia SCC could reduce revenues that our rural telephone company and CLEC subsidiaries receive from network access charges. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately $36.2 million of our rural telephone company subsidiaries’ revenues came from network access charges, which are paid to us by long distance carriers for originating and terminating calls in the areas we serve. These revenues are highly profitable for us. The amount of access charge revenues that we receive is based on rates set by the FCC for interstate long distance calls and the SCC for intrastate long distance calls. Such access rates are subject to change. Our federal access charges are periodically reset by the FCC and on July 1, 2009, will be subject to a biennial reset (reduction). The SCC could conduct an access reform proceeding or rate cases and earnings reviews, all of which could result in rate changes. The FCC has reformed and continues to reform the structure of the federal access charge system. The FCC has an active proceeding addressing access and other intercarrier payments, which reduce the revenues we receive from other carriers. On November 5, 2008, the Federal Communications Commission adopted a Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“November 5th Further Notice”) requesting comment on three alternative proposals for reform of the Universal Service Fund (“USF”) and the intercarrier compensation rules, including both federal and state access charges. It is uncertain whether the FCC will ultimately adopt any of the three proposed plans and what matters will be addressed in any plan that is ultimately adopted. Intercarrier compensation reform could result in significant decreases in the access charge revenues received by our rural telephone companies. While we expect that the FCC would allow these changes to occur over some transition period and would permit our rural telephone companies to offset the impact of reduced revenues with increased subscriber line charges and USF payments, it is unknown whether all or only a portion of the access revenues would be so recovered. On September 28, 2007, the Virginia SCC issued a final order in a rulemaking docket that capped CLECs’ intrastate switched access charges, including the access charges of our CLECs, at the higher of the CLEC’s interstate switched access charge or the intrastate switched access charge of the ILEC (or the average of all ILECs) providing service in the territory served by the CLEC. The cap took effect at the end of a transition period that began on December 1, 2007 and ended on March 31, 2008. As part of that transition, we reduced our CLEC access rates effective on January 1, 2008 and then again March 31, 2008. These lower rates reduced our CLEC access revenues by a total of $1.2 million in 2008. On April 25, 2008, Verizon filed a petition with the West Virginia Public Service Commission asking that a similar cap on intrastate CLEC access charges be adopted in West Virginia. On October 1, 2008, the Staff of the West Virginia Commission filed in support of Verizon’s request and the Administrative Law Judge’s decision is due by March 4, 2009. It is likely that the West Virginia Commission will adopt the staff’s recommendation. While this could have a significant impact to our long-term revenue growth potential in WV, it is not expected to have a material impact to our existing revenue stream. If, in a future proceeding, the SCC were to reduce the level of switched access charges that could be billed by our RLECs, such a reduction could have a significant adverse financial effect on our RLECs depending on the amount of the reduction. The SCC is currently considering a January 2009 recommendation by an SCC Hearing Examiner that Embarq be required to lower its intrastate access rates. An SCC order to reduce these rates would not impact the rates charged by our RLECs. Currently, VoIP providers generally do not pay us access charges for calls that originate or terminate on our network. Therefore, expanded use of VoIP technology could reduce the access or intercarrier revenues received by rural telephone companies like ours. The FCC is currently considering the extent to which VoIP providers should be obligated to pay, or entitled to receive, access charges, but we cannot predict the timing or ultimate result of this proceeding. If VoIP providers continue not to pay access charges to us, our revenues and operating results could be adversely affected to the extent that users substitute VoIP calls for traditional wireline communications. Regulatory developments at the FCC could reduce revenues that our rural telephone company subsidiaries and our wireless subsidiaries receive from the Federal Universal Service Fund. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we received approximately $4.4 million in payments from the federal Universal Service Fund in connection with our rural telephone company subsidiaries’ operations. The FCC is examining its Universal Service Fund rules and may change the amount of Universal Service Fund support available to carriers. The FCC may change its rules and reduce the amount of funding ultimately available to our rural telephone company subsidiaries as noted above. There can be no assurance that we will continue to receive the current level of Universal Service Fund revenues in the future. Loss of Universal Service Fund revenues could adversely affect our operating results. 29 Table of Contents The FCC is currently considering a recommendation from the Federal-State Joint Board on Universal Service, an advisory panel composed of FCC commissioners and state telecommunications regulators, that the fund be divided into three distinct funds each with a separate distribution mechanism and funding allocation. The three funds would be a Broadband Fund, a Mobility Fund, and a Provider of Last Resort Fund. Under the current rules, our competitors can obtain the same per-line level of federal Universal Service Fund subsidies as we do, without regard for whether their costs of providing service are similar to ours, if either the FCC or the SCC determines that granting these subsidies to competitors would be in the public interest and the competitors offer and advertise certain telephone services as required by the Telecommunications Act. The joint board’s recommendation would eliminate this “identical support” rule. The joint board has also recommended that the FCC adopt an interim, emergency cap on high-cost universal service support for competitive ETCs, such as our wireless affiliates. In addition to considering the joint board recommendations, the FCC has asked for comments on a proposal to use “reverse auctions” as a means to distribute certain Universal Service funding. It is not known how these changes, if adopted, may affect us. The FCC is also currently examining the way in which it collects carrier contributions to the federal Universal Service Fund. Today, as a telecommunications carrier, we contribute a percentage of our interstate revenues to the Universal Service Fund, which supports the delivery of services to high-cost areas and low-income consumers, as well as to schools, libraries and rural health care providers. In 2006, the FCC expanded the base of USF contributions by extending universal service contribution obligations to providers of interconnected VoIP service. In December 2004, Congress suspended the application of a law called the Antideficiency Act to the Universal Service Fund until December 31, 2005 and has repeatedly extended this exemption. The most recent exemption expired on December 31, 2008 and Congress is currently considering legislation to permanently exempt the Universal Service Fund from the Antideficiency Act. The Antideficiency Act prohibits government agencies from making financial commitments in excess of their funds on hand. Currently, the Universal Service Fund administrator makes commitments to fund recipients in advance of collecting the contributions from carriers that will pay for these commitments. The FCC has not determined whether the Antideficiency Act would apply to payments to our rural telephone company subsidiaries. If Congress does not continue to extend the exemption, the Universal Service Fund support may be delayed or reduced in the future, or contributors to the fund, including us, could see their contribution obligations rise significantly. Our CLEC operations face substantial competition and uncertainty relating to their interconnection agreements with the ILEC networks covering the CLEC markets we serve. Our CLEC operations compete primarily with ILECs, including Verizon (including Verizon Business) and Embarq, and, to a lesser extent, other CLECs, including Level 3, Fibernet, PAETEC and Cox. We will continue to face competition from other current and future market entrants. We have interconnection agreements with the ILEC networks covering each market in which our CLEC serves. From time to time, we are required to negotiate amendments to, extensions of, or replacements for these agreements. Additionally, we may be required to negotiate new interconnection agreements in order to enter new markets in the future. We may not be able to successfully negotiate amendments to existing agreements, negotiate new interconnection agreements, renew our existing interconnection agreements, opt in to new agreements or successfully arbitrate replacement agreements for interconnection on terms and conditions acceptable to us. Our inability to do so would adversely affect our existing operations and opportunities to expand our CLEC business in existing and new markets. As the FCC modifies, changes and implements rules related to unbundling of ILEC network elements and collocation of competitive facilities at ILEC central offices, we generally have to renegotiate our interconnection agreements to implement those new or modified rules. Our competitors have substantial business advantages over our CLEC operations, and we may not be able to compete successfully. The regional Bell operating companies and other large ILECs such as Embarq dominate the current market for business and consumer telecommunications services and have a virtual monopoly on telephone lines. These companies represent the dominant competition in much of our target service areas, and we expect this competition to intensify. The large ILECs have established brand names and reputations for high quality service in their service areas, possess sufficient capital to upgrade existing and deploy new equipment, own their telephone lines and can bundle digital data services with their existing analog voice services and other services, such as long-distance, wireless and video services, to achieve economies of scale in serving customers. Moreover, the large ILECs are aggressively implementing “win-back” programs to regain access line customers lost to competitors and use bundled services to assist in those programs. We pose a competitive risk to the large ILECs that serve our CLEC markets and, as both our competitors and our suppliers, they have no motivation to respond in a timely manner to our requests or to assist in the enhancement of the services we provide to our CLEC customers. 30 Table of Contents We face substantial competition in our internet and data services business and face regulatory uncertainty, each of which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We currently offer our internet and data services in rural markets and face competition from other internet and data service providers, including cable companies. The internet industry is characterized by the absence of significant barriers to entry and rapid growth in internet usage among customers. As a result, we expect that our competition will increase from market entrants offering high-speed data services, including DSL, cable and wireless access. Our competition includes: • cable modem services offered by cable providers; • ILECs, such as Verizon and Embarq in our CLEC territories; and • local, regional and national ISPs, both wireline and wireless. Many of our competitors have financial resources, corporate backing, customer bases, marketing programs and brand names that are greater than ours. Additionally, competitors may charge less than we do for internet services, causing us to reduce, or preventing us from raising, our fees. A significant portion of our dial-up internet customer base has transitioned to broadband services. We expect this trend to continue. Where we offer incumbent local exchange service or, to some extent, CLEC services, we have been able to maintain service to some of these customers through DSL services or service bundles. In those areas of our internet coverage area where we provide neither incumbent local exchange service nor CLEC service, we have been unable to retain dial-up internet customers who migrate to broadband services. In 2008 we experienced a 27.3% loss in the number of dial-up internet customers from 2007. Our dial-up internet service revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 decreased to approximately $3.0 million from approximately $3.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. In connection with our internet access offerings, we could become subject to laws and regulations as they are adopted or applied to the internet. To date, the FCC has treated ISPs as enhanced or information service providers, rather than common carriers, although it has subjected ISPs, such as providers of broadband, to many obligations formerly placed on common carriers, such as the requirements of the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act. As internet services expand, federal, state and local governments may adopt rules and regulations, or apply existing laws and regulations to the internet. The FCC recently issued a decision that harmonizes the regulatory frameworks that apply to broadband access to the internet through telephone and cable providers’ communications networks. General Matters We may require additional capital to respond to customer demand and to competition, and if we fail to raise the capital or fail to have continued access to the capital required to build out and operate our planned networks, we may experience a material adverse effect on our business. We require additional capital to build out and operate our wireless and wireline networks and for general working capital needs. Our aggregate capital expenditures for 2008 were $132.5 million, of which approximately $37 million represented incremental capital expenditures related to our network upgrade to EV-DO. We expect our aggregate capital expenditures for 2009 to be in the range of $111 million to $119 million, including incremental capital expenditures for an upgrade to our wireless network relating to EV-DO. We expect our aggregate incremental capital expenditures for 2007 through 2009 for the upgrade to EV-DO in all of our markets to be approximately $65 million, of which $62 million was spent in 2007 and 2008 and the remainder of approximately $3 million is expected to be spent in 2009. Furthermore, because of our intensely competitive market, we may be required, including under the terms of the Strategic Network Alliance, to expand the technical requirements of our wireless or wireline network or to build out additional areas within our territories that could result in increased capital expenditures. Any such unplanned capital expenditures may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 31 Table of Contents We are subject to numerous surcharges and fees from federal, state and local governments, and the applicability and amount of these fees is subject to great uncertainty. Telecommunications providers pay a variety of surcharges and fees on their gross revenues from interstate and intrastate services. Interstate fees include federal Universal Service Fund fees and common carrier regulatory fees. In addition, state regulators and local governments impose surcharges, taxes and fees on our services and the applicability of these surcharges and fees to our services is uncertain in many cases and jurisdictions may argue as to whether we have correctly assessed and remitted those monies. The division of our services between interstate services and intrastate services is a matter of interpretation and may in the future be contested by the FCC or state authorities. In addition, periodic revisions by state and federal regulators may increase the surcharges and fees we currently pay. In 2004, the Virginia General Assembly passed legislation that required us to pay state sales taxes on purchases that were previously exempt from those taxes. As a result, we have added a surcharge to our customer bills to recover this increase in our taxes. It also is unknown if our tax burden will be similar to competitors using different technologies to provide similar services. Virginia legislation that significantly revised the taxation of communications services in Virginia took effect on January 1, 2007. The new law applied a uniform, statewide, sales and use tax to retail communications and video services on a competitively neutral basis. The communications sales and use tax rate is 5%. The sales and use tax is remitted by communications providers to the Virginia Department of Taxation, which administers the distribution of the Communications Sales and Use Tax Trust Fund. The redistribution of taxes and fees from the trust fund to the localities is intended to be revenue neutral and replaces franchise fees and utility taxes set by localities. The Federal government and many states apply transaction-based taxes to sales of our products and services and to our purchases of telecommunications services from various carriers. It is possible that our transaction-based tax liabilities could change in the future. We may or may not be able to recover some or all of those taxes from our customers. We rely on a limited number of key suppliers and vendors for timely supply of equipment and services relating to our network infrastructure. If these suppliers or vendors experience problems or favor our competitors, we could fail to obtain sufficient quantities of the products and services we require to operate our businesses successfully. We depend on a limited number of suppliers and vendors for equipment and services relating to our network infrastructure. If these suppliers experience interruptions or other problems delivering these network components on a timely basis, our subscriber growth and operating results could suffer significantly. Our initial choice of a network infrastructure supplier can, where proprietary technology of the supplier is an integral component of the network, cause us effectively to be locked into one or a few suppliers for key network components. As a result, we have become reliant upon a limited number of network equipment manufacturers, including Alcatel-Lucent, who is the exclusive provider of the equipment for our EV-DO upgrade, Cisco Systems, Inc. and others. If alternative suppliers and vendors become necessary, we may not be able to obtain satisfactory and timely replacement supplies on economically attractive terms, or at all. A system failure could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could cause us to lose customers. To be successful, we must provide our customers reliable network service. Some of the risks to our network and infrastructure include: • physical damage to outside plant facilities; • power surges or outages; • software defects; • human error; • disruptions beyond our control, including disruptions caused by terrorist activities or severe weather; and • failures in operational support systems. Network disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and incur expenses. 32 Table of Contents We are dependent on third-party vendors for our information and billing systems. Any significant disruption in our relationship with these vendors could increase our cost and affect our operating efficiencies. Sophisticated information and billing systems are vital to our ability to monitor and control costs, bill customers, process customer orders, provide customer service and achieve operating efficiencies. We currently rely on internal systems and third-party vendors to provide all of our information and processing systems. Some of our billing, customer service and management information systems have been developed by third parties and may not perform as anticipated or the third parties may experience interruptions or other problems delivering these systems. In addition, our plans for developing and implementing our information and billing systems rely to some extent on the delivery of products and services by third-party vendors. Our right to use these systems is dependent upon license agreements with third-party vendors. Some of these agreements are cancelable by the vendor, and the cancellation or nonrenewable nature of these agreements could impair our ability to process customer information and/or bill our customers. Since we rely on third-party vendors to provide some of these services, any switch in vendors could be costly and affect operating efficiencies. Our current pre-pay billing vendor, Verisign, plans to exit the billing services business. We have a contract with Verisign through the end of the year 2009 that will allow us to transition our billing services to a third party. We have contracted with Convergys Information Management Group Inc for pre-pay billing services and are in the process of transitioning to Convergys. If we are unable to transition our billing services to Convergys before the end of the transition period with Verisign, we may not be able to bill our pre-pay customers and we may experience increased churn among our pre-pay customers. If or when we lose a member or members of our senior management, our business may be adversely affected. The success of our business is largely dependent on our executive officers, as well as on our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified technical and management personnel. Carl A. Rosberg announced his retirement effective in early 2009 and resigned as President-Wireless as of December 31, 2008 and Francis C. Guido, Executive Vice President, assumed the duties of President of Wireless Operations on January 1, 2009. Additionally, James A. Hyde will join the Company as President and Chief Operating Officer in March 2009. We intend for Mr. Hyde to succeed James S. Quarforth as Chief Executive Officer upon Mr. Quarforth’s eventual retirement. We believe that there is, and will continue to be, intense competition for qualified personnel in the telecommunications industry, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business. The unexpected loss of key personnel or the failure to attract additional personnel as required could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Unauthorized use of, or interference with, our network could disrupt service and increase our costs. We may incur costs associated with the unauthorized use of our network including administrative and capital costs associated with detecting, monitoring and reducing the incidence of fraud. Fraudulent use of our network may impact interconnection costs, capacity costs, administrative costs, fraud prevention costs and payments to other carriers for fraudulent roaming. Security breaches related to our physical facilities, computer networks, and informational databases may cause harm to our business and reputation and result in a loss of customers. Our physical facilities and information systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, theft, attacks by hackers, or similar disruptive problems. If hackers gain improper access to our databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify confidential personal information concerning our subscribers. In addition, misuse of our customer information could result in more substantial harms perpetrated by third parties. This could damage our business and reputation, and result in a loss of customers. We may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock in the future. We intend to continue to pay regular quarterly dividends on our common stock. Any decision to declare future dividends will be made at the discretion of the board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements, investment opportunities, financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. We are a holding company that does not operate any business of our own. As a result, we are dependent on cash dividends and distributions and other transfers from our subsidiaries to make dividend payments or to make other distributions to our stockholders, including by means of a stock repurchase. Amounts that can be made available to us to pay cash dividends or repurchase stock are restricted by the NTELOS Inc. Amended Credit Agreement. 33 Table of Contents Our stock price has historically been volatile and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to fluctuations. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors. Events and factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly and annual operating results; • changes in financial estimates by us or changes in financial estimates or recommendations by any securities analysts who might cover our stock; • conditions or trends in our industry or regulatory changes; • conditions, trends or changes in the securities marketplace, including trading volumes; • adverse changes in economic conditions; • changes in the market valuations of other companies operating in our industry; • technological innovations by us or our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, significant contracts or divestitures; • announcements of investigations, regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; • changes in general conditions in the United States and global economy, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events; • loss of one or more significant customers, including Sprint Nextel; • sales of large blocks of our common stock; • changes in accounting principles; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • sales of our common stock, including sales of our common stock by our directors, executive officers or affiliates. Quadrangle Capital Partners LLP and certain of its affiliates, collectively “Quadrangle”, continue to have significant influence over our business and could delay, deter or prevent a change of control, change in management or business combination that may not be beneficial to our stockholders and as a result, may depress the market price of our stock. As of December 31, 2008, Quadrangle beneficially owned 11,306,102 shares of our common stock, or 26.8% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, three of the eight directors that serve on our board of directors are representatives or designees of Quadrangle. By virtue of such stock ownership and representation on the board of directors, Quadrangle continues to have a significant influence over day-to-day corporate and management policies and all matters submitted to our stockholders, including the election of the directors, and to exercise significant control over our business, policies and affairs. Such concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control, change in management or business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders and as a result, may depress the market price of our stock. Our stock price may decline due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the possibility of such sales, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. These sales may also make it more difficult for us to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities at a time and at a price we deem appropriate. We have granted certain of our stockholders, including the Quadrangle Entities, the right to require us to register their shares of our common stock, representing approximately 12.1 million shares of our common stock. Accordingly, the number of shares subject to registration rights is substantial and the sale of these shares may have a negative impact on the market price for our common stock. 34 Table of Contents Provisions in our charter documents and the General Corporation Law of Delaware could discourage potential acquisition proposals, could delay, deter or prevent a change in control and could limit the price certain investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Certain provisions of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, the state in which we are organized, and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may inhibit a change of control not approved by our board of directors or changes in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in the entrenchment of current management. These provisions include: • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend, alter or repeal our by-laws; • limitations on the removal of directors; • the inability of the stockholders to act by written consent; and • the authority of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine and additional shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 