ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSRisks Relating to Our Business Many of the products we manufacture or purchase and resell are commodities whose price is determined by the market's supply and demand for such products, and the markets in which we operate are cyclical and competitive. The depressed state of the housing, construction, and home improvement markets could continue to adversely affect demand and pricing for our products.Many of the building products we produce or distribute, including OSB, plywood, lumber, and particleboard, are commodities that are widely available from other manufacturers or distributors with prices and volumes determined frequently in an auction market based on participants' perceptions of short-term supply and demand factors. At times, the price for any one or more of the products we produce or distribute may fall below our cash production or purchase costs, requiring us to either incur short-term losses on product sales or cease production at one or more of our manufacturing facilities. Therefore, our profitability with respect to these commodity products depends, in significant part, on managing our cost structure, particularly raw materials and labor, which represent the largest components of our operating costs. Commodity wood product prices could be volatile in response to operating rates and inventory levels in various distribution channels. Commodity price volatility affects our distribution business, with falling price environments generally causing reduced revenues and margins, resulting in substantial declines in profitability and possible net losses.Historically, demand for the products we manufacture, as well as the products we purchase and distribute, has been closely correlated with new residential construction in the United States and, to a lesser extent, light commercial construction and residential repair-and-remodeling activity. New residential construction activity remained substantially below average historical levels during 2013 and so did demand for many of the products we manufacture and distribute. There is significant uncertainty regarding the timing and extent of a recovery to average historical levels in such construction activity and resulting product demand levels. Demand for new residential construction is influenced by seasonal weather factors, mortgage availability and rates, unemployment levels, household formation rates, domestic population growth, immigration rates, 12Table of Contents residential vacancy and foreclosure rates, demand for second homes, existing home prices, consumer confidence, and other general economic factors.Wood products industry supply is influenced primarily by price-induced changes in the operating rates of existing facilities but is also influenced over time by the introduction of new product technologies, capacity additions and closures, restart of idled capacity, and log availability. The balance of wood products supply and demand in the United States is also heavily influenced by imported products, principally from Canada.We have very limited control of the foregoing, and as a result, our profitability and cash flow may fluctuate materially in response to changes in the supply and demand balance for our primary products.Our industry is highly competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively, our sales, operating results, and growth strategies could be negatively affected.The markets for the products we manufacture in our Wood Products segment are highly competitive. Our competitors range from very large, fully integrated forest and building products firms to smaller firms that may manufacture only one or a few types of products. We also compete less directly with firms that manufacture substitutes for wood building products. Certain mills operated by our competitors may be lower-cost manufacturers than the mills operated by us.The building products distribution industry that our Building Materials Distribution segment competes in is highly fragmented and competitive, and the barriers to entry for local competitors are relatively low. Competitive factors in our industry include pricing and availability of product, service and delivery capabilities, ability to assist customers with problem solving, extension of credit terms, customer relationships, geographic coverage, and breadth of product offerings. Also, financial stability is important to suppliers and customers in choosing distributors and allows for more favorable terms on which to obtain products from suppliers and sell products to customers. If our financial condition deteriorates in the future, our support from suppliers may be negatively affected.Some of the businesses with which we compete are part of larger companies and therefore have access to greater financial and other resources than we do. These resources may afford those competitors greater purchasing power, increased financial flexibility, and more capital resources for expansion and improvement, which may enable those competitors to compete more effectively than we can. In addition, certain suppliers to our distribution business also sell and distribute their products directly to customers. Additional manufacturers of products distributed by us may elect to sell and distribute directly to end users in the future or enter into exclusive supply arrangements with other distributors. Finally, we may not be able to maintain our costs at a level sufficiently low for us to compete effectively. If we are unable to compete effectively, our net sales and net income will be reduced.Our manufacturing operations may have difficulty obtaining wood fiber at favorable prices or at all.Wood fiber is our principal raw material, which accounted for approximately 44% of the aggregate amount of materials, labor, and other operating expenses (excluding depreciation) for our Wood Products segment in 2013. Wood fiber is a commodity, and prices have been historically cyclical in response to changes in domestic and foreign demand and supply. In the future, we expect the level of foreign demand for timber exports from the western U.S. to fluctuate based on the economic activity in China and other Pacific Rim countries, currency exchange rates, and the availability of timber supplies from other countries such as Canada, Russia, and New Zealand. Sustained periods of high timber costs may impair the cost competitiveness of our manufacturing facilities.In 2005, following the sale of our timberlands, supply agreements (or successor arrangements) were put in place under which we purchase timber at market-based prices. For 2013, approximately 28% of our timber was supplied pursuant to agreements assumed by (or replacement master supply agreements with) Hancock, Molpus, and Rayonier. The supply agreements with these parties terminate on December 31, 2014, subject to additional one-year extensions unless notice is provided to the other party at least six months prior to expiration of the applicable agreement. If a counterparty to these agreements elects not to continue these agreements or we are unable to renegotiate future purchases on terms that are acceptable to us, we would need to locate a replacement supplier for our timber requirements, which could include private purchases with other suppliers, open-market purchases, and purchases from governmental sources. If we are unable to locate a replacement supplier in a particular region to satisfy our timber needs at satisfactory prices, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.In 2013, we purchased approximately 21% of our timber from federal, state, and local governments. In certain regions in which we operate, a substantial portion of our timber is purchased from governmental authorities. As a result, existing and 13Table of Contents future governmental regulation can affect our access to, and the cost of, such timber. Future domestic or foreign legislation and litigation concerning the use of timberlands, timber harvest methodologies, forest road construction and maintenance, the protection of endangered species, forest-based carbon sequestration, the promotion of forest health, and the response to and prevention of catastrophic wildfires can affect timber and fiber supply from both government and private lands. Availability of harvested timber and fiber may be further limited by fire, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, windstorms, hurricanes, flooding, and other natural and man-made causes, thereby reducing supply and increasing prices.Historically, availability of residual wood fiber for our particleboard operation has been negatively affected by significant mill closures and curtailments that have occurred among solid-wood product manufacturers, and future periods of low demand for solid-wood products could negatively affect availability. In addition, future development of wood cellulose biofuel or other new sources of wood fiber demand could interfere with our ability to source wood fiber or lead to significantly higher costs.Significant changes in discount rates, actual investment return on pension assets, and other factors could affect our earnings, equity, and pension contributions in future periods.Our earnings may be negatively affected by the amount of income or expense we record for our pension plans. Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions relating to financial market and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators can change the assumptions. The most significant year-end assumptions used to estimate pension expense are the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. In addition, we are required to make an annual measurement of plan assets and liabilities, which may result in a significant change to equity through a reduction or increase to "Accumulated other comprehensive loss." A decline in the market value of the pension assets will increase our funding requirements. Our pension plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. As interest rates decrease, the present value of our liabilities increase, potentially increasing pension expense and funding requirements. Changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension plans. At December 31, 2013, the net underfunded status of our defined benefit pension plans was $86.0 million. If the status of our defined benefit plans continues to be underfunded, we anticipate significant future funding obligations, reducing the cash available for our business. For more discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension plan estimates, see "Pensions" included in "Critical Accounting Estimates" in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of this Form 10-K.Our operations require substantial capital, and recent significant capital investments have increased fixed costs, which could negatively affect our profitability.In the past three years, we have completed a number of capital investments, including significantly increasing our outdoor storage acreage and leasing additional warehouse space. In the future, we expect to make further capital investments, primarily related to internal veneer production. These significant capital investments have resulted in increased fixed costs, which could negatively affect our profitability if the housing market does not continue to recover and revenues do not improve to offset our incremental fixed costs. Capital expenditures for expansion or replacement of existing facilities or equipment or to comply with future changes in environmental laws and regulations may be substantial. Although we maintain our production equipment with regular periodic and scheduled maintenance, we cannot assure you that key pieces of equipment in our various manufacturing facilities will not need to be repaired or replaced or that we will not incur significant additional costs associated with environmental compliance. The costs of repairing or replacing such equipment and the associated downtime of the affected production line could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. If for any reason we are unable to provide for our operating needs, capital expenditures, and other cash requirements on economic terms, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.A material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, including the demand from our Building Materials Distribution business, reduce our sales, and/or negatively affect our financial results.Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including but not limited to:• equipment failure, particularly a press at one of our major EWP production facilities;• fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, or other catastrophes;• unscheduled maintenance outages;14Table of Contents • utility and transportation infrastructure disruptions;• labor difficulties;• other operational problems; or• ecoterrorism or threats of ecoterrorism.Any downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and/or require us to make unplanned capital expenditures. If our machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to satisfy customer requirements would be impaired, resulting in lower sales and net income.Because approximately 41% of our Wood Products sales in 2013, including approximately 75% of our EWP sales, were to our Building Materials Distribution business, a material disruption at our Wood Products facilities would also negatively affect our Building Materials Distribution business. We are therefore exposed to a larger extent to the risk of disruption to our Wood Products manufacturing facilities due to our vertical integration and the resulting impact on our Building Materials Distribution business.In addition, a number of our suppliers are subject to the manufacturing facility disruption risks noted above. Our suppliers' inability to produce the necessary raw materials for our manufacturing processes or supply the finished goods that we distribute through our Building Materials Distribution segment may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial position.Adverse housing market conditions may increase the credit risk from our customers.Our Building Materials Distribution and Wood Products segments extend credit to numerous customers who are generally susceptible to the same economic business risks as we are. Unfavorable housing market conditions could result in financial failures of one or more of our significant customers. Furthermore, we may not necessarily be aware of any deterioration in our customers' financial position. If our customers' financial position becomes impaired, it could impair our ability to fully collect receivables from such customers and negatively affect our operating results, cash flow, and liquidity.A significant portion of our sales are concentrated with a relatively small number of customers.For the year ended December 31, 2013, our top ten customers represented approximately 30% of our sales, with one customer accounting for approximately 11% of sales. At December 31, 2013, receivables from such customer accounted for approximately 13% of total receivables. Although we believe that our relationships with our customers are strong, the loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, cash flow, and liquidity.Our ability to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs is subject to various risks.Our ability to make scheduled payments on our indebtedness and fund other liquidity needs depends on and is subject to our financial and operating performance, which in turn is affected by general and regional economic, financial, competitive, business, and other factors, including the availability of financing in the banking and capital markets as well as the other risks described herein. In particular, demand for our products correlates to a significant degree to the level of residential construction activity in North America, which historically has been characterized by significant cyclicality. Over the last several years, housing starts remained below historical levels. There can be no assurance as to when or if the housing market will rebound to historical levels. We have experienced significant losses from operations and used significant cash for operating activities in recent periods.We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to service our debt obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs, we could be forced to curtail our operations, reorganize our capital structure, or liquidate some or all of our assets.We are subject to environmental regulation and environmental compliance expenditures, as well as other potential environmental liabilities.Our businesses are subject to a wide range of general and industry-specific environmental laws and regulations, particularly with respect to air emissions, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous waste management, and site remediation. 15Table of Contents Enactment of new environmental laws or regulations, including those aimed at addressing greenhouse gas emissions, or changes in existing laws or regulations might require us to make significant expenditures or restrict operations.From time to time, legislative bodies and environmental regulatory agencies may promulgate new regulatory programs imposing significant incremental operating costs or capital costs on us. In December 2012, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) finalized a revised series of four regulations commonly referred to collectively as Boiler MACT, which are intended to regulate the emission of hazardous air pollutants from industrial boilers. Facilities in our Wood Products segment will be subject to one or more of these regulations and must be in compliance with the applicable rules by early 2016. We are currently undertaking a complete review of the revised rules to assess how they will affect our operations. Even with the revised rules finalized, considerable uncertainty still exists, as there will likely be legal challenges to the final rules from industry and/or environmental organizations. Notwithstanding that uncertainty, we are proceeding with efforts to analyze the applicability and requirements of the regulations, including the capital and operating costs required to comply. Based upon our current understanding of the regulations, we expect to spend approximately $5 million to $10 million in capital over the next two years to comply with the applicable rules.As an owner and operator of real estate, we may be liable under environmental laws for the cleanup of past and present spills and releases of hazardous or toxic substances on or from our properties and operations. We could be found liable under these laws whether or not we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such substances. In some cases, this liability may exceed the value of the property itself.We may be unable to generate funds or other sources of liquidity and capital to fund unforeseen environmental liabilities or expenditures to the extent we are not indemnified by third parties. For example, in connection with the completion of our acquisition of the forest products assets of OfficeMax in 2004 (the Forest Products Acquisition), OfficeMax, which became a wholly owned subsidiary of Office Depot on November 5, 2013, is generally obligated to indemnify us for hazardous substance releases and other environmental violations that occurred prior to the Forest Products Acquisition. However, OfficeMax may not have sufficient funds to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations when required, and in some cases, we may not be contractually entitled to indemnification by OfficeMax. In addition, in connection with the sale of our Paper and Packaging & Newsprint assets in 2008, Boise Inc., which became a wholly owned subsidiary of Packaging Corporation of America (PCA) on October 25, 2013, and its affiliates assumed any and all environmental liabilities arising from our ownership or operation of the assets and businesses sold to them, and we believe we are entitled to indemnification by them from third-party claims in the event they fail to fully discharge any such liabilities on the basis of common law rules of indemnification. However, Boise Inc. may not have sufficient funds to discharge its obligations when required or to indemnify us from third-party claims arising out of any such failure. For additional information on how environmental regulation and compliance affects our business, see "Environmental" in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of this Form 10-K.Labor disruptions or increased labor costs could adversely affect our business.We could experience a material labor disruption, strike, or significantly increased labor costs at one or more of our facilities, either in the course of negotiations of a labor agreement or otherwise. Either of these situations could prevent us from meeting customer demands or result in increased costs, thereby reducing our sales and profitability. As of February 16, 2014, we had approximately 5,290 employees. Approximately 27% of these employees work pursuant to collective bargaining agreements. As of February 16, 2014, we had nine collective bargaining agreements. Fewer than 1% of our total employees are working pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement that will expire within the next 12 months. If our long-lived assets, goodwill, and/or intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record noncash impairment charges that could have a material impact on our results of operations.We review the carrying value of long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. We also test goodwill in each of our reporting units and intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually in the fourth quarter or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may exceed fair value. Should the markets for our products deteriorate or should we decide to invest capital differently than as expected, or should other cash flow assumptions change, it is possible that we will be required to record noncash impairment charges in the future with respect to the investments we have completed and expect to complete, which could have a material impact on our results of operations.16Table of Contents The terms of our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes restrict, and covenants contained in agreements governing indebtedness in the future may restrict, our ability to operate our business and to pursue our business strategies.Our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes contain, and any future indebtedness of ours may contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose customary operating and financial restrictions on us. Our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries, among other things, to:•incur additional debt;•declare or pay dividends, redeem stock, or make other distributions to stockholders;•make investments;•create liens or use assets as security in other transactions;•merge or consolidate, or sell, transfer, lease, or dispose of substantially all of our assets;•enter into transactions with affiliates;•sell or transfer certain assets; and•make prepayments on our senior notes and subordinated indebtedness.In addition, our revolving credit facility provides that if an event of default occurs or excess availability under our revolving credit facility drops below a threshold amount equal to the greater of 10% of the aggregate commitments under our revolving credit facility or $35 million (and until such time as excess availability for two consecutive fiscal months exceeds that threshold amount and no event of default has occurred and is continuing), we will be required to maintain a monthly minimum fixed coverage charge ratio of 1.0:1.0, determined on a trailing twelve-month basis.Our failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness.We may be unable to attract and retain key management and other key employees.Our key managers are important to our success and may be difficult to replace because they have a significant amount of experience in forest products manufacturing and building materials distribution. While our senior management team has considerable experience, certain members of our management team are nearing or have reached normal retirement age. The failure to successfully implement succession plans could result in inadequate depth of institutional knowledge or inadequate skill sets, which could adversely affect our business.Our growth strategy includes pursuing strategic acquisitions. We may be unable to efficiently integrate acquired operations or successfully complete potential acquisitions.We may not be able to integrate the operations of acquired businesses in an efficient and cost-effective manner or without significant disruption to our existing operations or realize expected synergies. Acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including uncertainties as to the future financial performance of the acquired business, difficulties integrating acquired personnel into our business, the potential loss of key employees, customers, or suppliers, difficulties in integrating different computer and accounting systems, exposure to unknown or unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, and the diversion of management attention and resources from existing operations. In the future, we may be unable to successfully complete potential acquisitions due to multiple factors, such as issues related to regulatory review of the proposed transactions. We may also be required to incur additional debt in order to consummate acquisitions, which debt may be substantial and may limit our flexibility in using our cash flow from operations. Our failure to integrate future acquired businesses effectively or to manage other consequences of our acquisitions could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows.We rely on Boise Inc. for many of our administrative services.In conjunction with the sale of our Paper and Packaging & Newsprint assets in 2008, we entered into an Outsourcing Services Agreement, under which Boise Inc. provides a number of corporate staff services to us. These services include information technology, accounting, and human resource transactional services. Most of the Boise Inc. staff that provides these services are providing the same services they provided when they were our employees. On October 25, 2013, PCA acquired all 17Table of Contents of the outstanding common shares of Boise Inc. The Outsourcing Services Agreement remains in place after PCA's acquisition of Boise Inc. and is currently set to expire on February 22, 2016. The agreement automatically renews for successive one-year terms unless either party provides notice of termination to the other party at least 12 months in advance of the expiration date. We cannot be assured that the staff providing such services will remain with PCA after the acquisition or that there will not be a disruption in the continuity or level of service provided. If PCA is unwilling or unable to provide services at the same quality levels as those services have been provided in the past or we are unable to develop and implement effective alternatives, if necessary, our business and compliance activities and results of operations could be substantially and negatively affected.Cyber security risks related to security breaches of company, customer, employee, and vendor information, as well as the technology that manages our operations and other business processes, could adversely affect our business. We rely on various information technology systems to capture, process, store, and report data and interact with customers, vendors, and employees. Despite careful security and controls design, implementation, updating, and internal and independent third-party assessments, our information technology systems, and those of our third party providers, could become subject to cyber attacks. Network, system, and data breaches could result in misappropriation of sensitive data or operational disruptions, including interruption to systems availability and denial of access to and misuse of applications required by our customers to conduct business with us. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we procure from third parties (including Boise Inc.) may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the systems. Misuse of internal applications; theft of intellectual property, trade secrets, or other corporate assets; and inappropriate disclosure of confidential information could stem from such incidents. Delayed sales, slowed production, or other repercussions resulting from these disruptions could result in lost sales, business delays, and negative publicity and could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, or cash flows.Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell your shares at or above the price you paid for them. The market price for our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, including:•our operating and financial performance and prospects; •our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; •the public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements, and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC); •changes in, or failure to meet, earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common stock or the stock of other companies in our industry; •the failure of research analysts to cover our common stock; •general economic, industry, and market conditions; •strategic actions by us, our customers, or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; •new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; •changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations, or principles; •material litigation or government investigations; •changes in general conditions in the U.S. and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism, or responses to such events; •changes in key personnel; •sales of common stock by us, our principal stockholder, or members of our management team; •the granting or exercise of employee stock options; 18Table of Contents •volume of trading in our common stock (which may be impacted by future sales of our common stock); and •the impact of the facts described elsewhere in "Item 1A. Risk Factors" of this Form 10-K.In addition, in recent years, the stock market has regularly experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with us, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our share price. The requirements of being a public company have increased certain of our costs and require significant management focus. We completed our initial public offering in February 2013, and Boise Cascade common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). As a public company, our legal, accounting, and other expenses associated with compliance-related and other activities have increased. For example, we created new board committees and appointed an additional independent director to comply with the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. Costs to obtain director and officer liability insurance contribute to our increased costs. As a result of the associated liability, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. Advocacy efforts by stockholders and third parties may also prompt even more changes in governance and reporting requirements, which could further increase our compliance costs.Until certain applicable phase-in periods expire, we are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements since we were a "controlled company" within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, you will not have the protections afforded by these corporate governance requirements.Until July 30, 2013, when BC Holdings ceased to hold a majority of our common stock, we were considered a "controlled company" for the purposes of the NYSE listing requirements. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by a group is a "controlled company" and may elect not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that our board of directors, our Compensation Committee, and our Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee meet the standard of independence established by those corporate governance requirements. We have one year from the date we ceased to be a controlled company to fully comply with all of the NYSE's corporate governance requirements. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE's corporate governance requirements until the applicable phase-in periods expire.Our significant stockholder, BC Holdings, has the ability to influence corporate activities, and its interests may not coincide with yours.BC Holdings beneficially owns approximately 19.8% of our outstanding common stock. As a result of its ownership, BC Holdings (and Madison Dearborn as its indirect controlling equityholder) has the ability to influence the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of stockholders and, through our board of directors, the ability to influence decision making with respect to our business direction and policies.Matters over which BC Holdings, directly or indirectly, has the ability to influence decision making include:•election of directors; •mergers and other business combination transactions, including proposed transactions that would result in our stockholders receiving a premium price for their shares; •other acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets; •incurrence of indebtedness and the issuance of equity securities; •repurchase of stock and payment of dividends; and •the issuance of shares to management under the Boise Cascade Company 2013 Incentive Plan (the 2013 Incentive Plan).19Table of Contents In addition, BC Holdings has a contractual right to designate a number of directors proportionate to its stock ownership. Conflicts of interest may arise because some of our directors are principals of BC Holdings. Messrs. Mencoff, Norton, and Souleles, who are officers or employees of Madison Dearborn, serve on our board of directors. Madison Dearborn is the ultimate principal equityholder of BC Holdings, a significant stockholder of Boise Cascade Company. Madison Dearborn and entities controlled by it may hold equity interests in entities that directly or indirectly compete with us, and companies in which it currently invests may begin competing with us. As a result of these relationships, when conflicts between the interests of Madison Dearborn, on the one hand, and of other stockholders, on the other hand, arise, these directors may not be disinterested. Although our directors and officers have a duty of loyalty to us under Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation, transactions that we enter into in which a director or officer has a conflict of interest are generally permissible so long as (1) the material facts relating to the director's or officer's relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our board of directors and a majority of our disinterested directors approves the transaction, (2) the material facts relating to the director's or officer's relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our stockholders and a majority of our disinterested stockholders approve the transaction, or (3) the transaction is otherwise fair to us. Our certificate of incorporation also provides that any principal, officer, member, manager, and/or employee of Madison Dearborn or any entity that controls, is controlled by, or under common control with Madison Dearborn (other than Forest Products Holdings, L.L.C. (FPH), an entity controlled by an investment fund managed by Madison Dearborn, BC Holdings, us, or any company that is controlled by us), or any investment funds managed by Madison Dearborn will not be required to offer any transaction opportunity of which they become aware to us and could take any such opportunity for themselves or offer it to other companies in which they have an investment, unless such opportunity is offered to them solely in their capacities as our directors. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We historically have not paid dividends on our common stock. In the future, the declaration and payment of dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our financial condition, earnings, contractual obligations, applicable laws, and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. In addition, our existing indebtedness restricts, and we anticipate our future indebtedness may restrict, our ability to pay dividends. Therefore, you may not receive a return on your investment in our common stock by receiving a payment of dividends.Certain provisions of our organizational documents and other contractual provisions may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors and may discourage hostile takeover attempts that some of our stockholders may consider to be beneficial. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of us and our stockholders. The provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include, among other things, the following:•a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms; • the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without stockholder approval; • stockholder action can only be taken at a special or regular meeting and not by written consent; • advance notice procedures for nominating candidates to our board of directors or presenting matters at stockholder meetings; • removal of directors only for cause; •allowing only our board of directors to fill vacancies on our board of directors; and • super-majority voting requirements to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation. In addition, we are a party to a Director Nomination Agreement with BC Holdings that provides BC Holdings the right to designate nominees for election to our board of directors for so long as BC Holdings beneficially owns 10% or more of the 20Table of Contents total number of shares of our common stock then outstanding. The Director Nomination Agreement also provides that Madison Dearborn Capital Partners IV, L.P., one of Madison Dearborn's investment funds (MDCP IV), may cause BC Holdings to assign such right to MDCP IV or to an MDCP IV affiliate so long as MDCP IV and its affiliates are the beneficial owners of 50% or more of BC Holdings' voting equity interests. We have elected in our certificate of incorporation not to be subject to Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (DGCL), an antitakeover law. In general, Section 203 prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination, such as a merger, with a person or group owning 15% or more of the corporation's voting stock for a period of three years following the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless (with certain exceptions) the business combination or the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, we are not subject to any antitakeover effects of Section 203. However, our certificate of incorporation contains provisions that have the same effect as Section 203, except that they provide that Madison Dearborn, its affiliates (including any investment funds managed by Madison Dearborn), and any person that becomes an interested stockholder as a result of a transfer of 5% or more of our voting stock by the forgoing persons to such person are excluded from the "interested stockholder" definition in our certificate of incorporation and are therefore not subject to the restrictions set forth therein that have the same effect as Section 203. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable the board of directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of the stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management.Failure to establish and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Upon becoming a public company, we became subject to the SEC's rules implementing Section 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which require management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of controls over financial reporting. However, even though we have been required to disclose changes made in our internal controls and procedures on a quarterly basis, this year (fiscal year 2013 Form 10-K) is our first annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. To comply with the requirements of being a public company, we have undertaken various actions, such as implementing new internal controls and procedures and hiring accounting or internal audit staff. Testing and maintaining internal control could divert our management's attention from other matters that are important to the operation of our business. Our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting until our fiscal year 2014 Form 10-K. At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse, in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed, or operating. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or we are required to restate our financial statements, we may fail to meet our public reporting obligations and investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSWe have no unresolved comments from the Commission staff.