Risk Factors Risks Related To Our Industry The cyclical nature of the demand for LPG product transportation may lead to significant changes in our chartering and vessel utilization, which may adversely affect our revenues, profitability and financial position The international LPG carrier market is cyclical with attendant volatility in profitability, charter rates and vessel values. Recent fluctuations attest to the volatility in the gas carrier market. Because many factors influencing the supply of, and demand for, vessel capacity are unpredictable, the timing, direction and degree of changes in the international gas carrier market are also not predictable. The degree of charter rate volatility among different types of gas carriers has varied widely. To the extent we have vessels in the spot market, we are exposed to changes in spot rates for gas carriers and such changes can affect our earnings and the value of our gas carriers at any given time. There is no assurance that as our period charters expire that they will be extended or renewed on favorable terms. In addition, when LPG vessel prices are considered to be low, companies not usually involved in shipping may make speculative vessel orders, thereby increasing the LPG shipping supply, satisfying demand sooner and potentially suppressing charter rates. Any of the foregoing factors could have an adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and financial position. 4 Table of Contents Charter rates for LPG carriers have recently reached high levels and future demand for LPG carriers and charter rates will depend on continued economic growth in the world economy and demand for LPG product transportation that exceeds the capacity of the growing worldwide LPG carrier fleet's ability to match it We believe that the future demand for LPG carriers and the charter rate levels for LPG carriers will depend upon continued economic growth in the world's economy, particularly in the economies of China, India and Southeast Asia, and upon seasonal and regional changes in demand and changes to the capacity of the world fleet. The capacity of the world fleet seems likely to increase and there can be no assurance that economic growth will continue. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a material adverse effect on world economic growth and thus on our business and results of operations. The factors affecting the supply and demand for LPG carriers are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. The factors that influence demand for our vessels include: • supply and demand for LPG products; • global and regional economic conditions; • the distance LPG products are to be moved by sea; • availability of alternative transportation means; and • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. The factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: • the number of newbuilding deliveries; • the scrapping rate of older vessels; • LPG carrier prices; • changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful lives of vessels; and • the number of vessels that are out of service. Any material increase in the supply of LPG carrier capacity without a corresponding growth in LPG carrier demand could have a material adverse effect on the employment of our LPG fleet and on prevailing charter rates and could accordingly adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Various economic factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects Some LPG products we carry are used in cyclical businesses such as the manufacturing of plastics and in the chemical industry and, accordingly, a slackening of demand in those industries could adversely affect the LPG carrier industry. Moreover, an adverse change in economic conditions affecting China, Japan, India or Southeast Asia could have a negative effect on the demand for LPG products, thereby adversely affecting our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. In particular, in recent years China and India have been among the world's fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product. We cannot assure you that such growth will be sustained or that these countries' economies will not experience a slowdown or recession in the future. Moreover, any slowdown in the economies of the United States or the European Union may adversely affect economic growth in Asia. Our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, could likely be materially and adversely affected by an economic downturn in any of these countries or regions. 5 Table of Contents If the demand for LPG products and LPG shipping does not continue to grow, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected Our growth depends on continued growth in world and regional demand for LPG products and LPG shipping, all of which could be adversely affected by a number of factors, such as: • increases in the cost of petroleum and LNG from which LPG is derived; • increases in the production and demand for industrial and residential area petroleum gas in areas linked by pipelines to consuming areas, or the conversion of existing non-petroleum gas pipelines to petroleum gas pipelines in those markets; • decreases in the consumption of LPG or LNG due to increases in its price relative to other energy sources or other factors making consumption of LPG or LNG less attractive; • availability of new, alternative energy sources; • a reduction in global or general industrial activity specifically in the plastics and chemical industry; and • adverse global or regional economic or political conditions, particularly in LPG consuming regions, which could reduce energy consumption. Reduced demand for LPG products and LPG shipping would have a material adverse effect on our future growth and would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could affect our operating results and the amount of available cash with which we can pay dividends We operate our vessels in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter hire rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results, which could affect the amount of dividends that we pay to our stockholders from quarter-to-quarter. The LPG carrier market is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of propane and butane for heating during the winter months. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns in these months tend to disrupt vessel scheduling and supplies of certain commodities. As a result, our revenues may be stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31, and conversely, our revenues may be weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30. This seasonality could materially affect our operating results and cash available for distribution to our stockholders as dividends in the future. Our revenues, operations and future growth could be adversely affected by a decrease in supply of liquefied natural gas, or LNG As of the current period, there has been a strong supply for and an increase in the construction of plants and projects involving LNG, of which LPG is a byproduct. If the supply of LNG decreases, we may see a concurrent reduction in the production of LPG and resulting lesser demand and lower charter rates for our vessels. A significant reduction in the supply of LPG would ultimately have a material adverse impact on our revenues, operations and future growth. Because the market value of our vessels are currently at high levels and may fluctuate significantly, we may incur losses when we sell our vessels, which may adversely affect our earnings and possibly lead to defaults under our loan agreements The market value of our vessels, which are currently at high levels, may fluctuate depending on a number of factors including: • general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; • age, sophistication and condition of our vessels; • types and sizes of vessels; 6 Table of Contents • availability of other modes of transportation; • cost and delivery of schedules for newbuildings; • governmental and other regulations; • supply and demand for LPG products; • prevailing level of LPG charter rates; and • technological advances. If we sell vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our financial statements, the sale may be less than the vessel's carrying value on our financial statements, resulting in a loss and reduction in earnings. If the market value of our fleet declines, we may not be in compliance with certain provisions of our existing loan agreements and we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing. If we are unable to pledge additional collateral, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our fleet. The loss of our vessels would mean we could not run our business. We are subject to regulation and liability under environmental laws that could require significant expenditures and affect our financial conditions and results of operations Our business and the operation of our vessels are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which the vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. Because those laws and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with them or the impact they may have on the resale prices or useful lives of our vessels. Additional rules and regulations may be adopted which could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and which could materially adversely affect our operations. We are also required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our operations. These permits, licenses and certificates may be issued or renewed with terms that could materially and adversely affect our operations. The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, established an extensive regulatory and liability regime for the protection and cleanup of the environment from oil spills. OPA 90 applies to discharges of any oil from a vessel, including discharges of fuel and lubricants from an LPG carrier. OPA affects all owners and operators whose vessels trade in the United States, its territories and possessions or whose vessels operate in United States waters, which includes the United States' territorial sea and its 200 nautical mile exclusive economic zone. Our gas carriers will not be carrying oil in bulk as cargo, and will therefore not be subject to oil spill liability under the provisions of OPA 90 (except in the case of a discharge of fuel oil or bunkers). Gas carriers, however, are considered ‘‘vessels’’ for purposes of OPA financial responsibility requirements. Under OPA, vessel owners, operators and bareboat charterers are ‘‘responsible parties’’ and are jointly, severally and strictly liable (unless the discharge of pollutants results solely from the act or omission of a third party, an act of God or an act of war) for all containment and clean-up costs and other damages arising from discharges or threatened discharges of pollutants from their vessels. See ‘‘Environmental and Other Regulation.’’ The International Maritime Organization (the ‘‘IMO’’), which is an agency of the United Nations, has adopted final regulations that are designed to reduce pollution in international waters, both from accidents and from routine operations. These regulations address oil discharges, ballasting and unloading operations, sewage, garbage, and air emissions. In complying with OPA 90 and the IMO regulations and other regulations that may be adopted, including regulations governing the safety, construction, equipment, operation and liability of gas carriers, shipowners and operators may be required to incur additional costs in meeting new maintenance and inspection requirements, in developing contingency plans for potential spills, and in obtaining insurance coverage. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention (‘‘ISM Code’’). The ISM 7 Table of Contents Code requires shipowners and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive ‘‘Safety Management System’’ that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject the owner or charterer to increased liability, may decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels, and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. Currently, each of the vessels in our fleet is ISM Code-certified. Because these certifications are critical to our business, we place a high priority on maintaining them. For this reason, we believe it is highly unlikely that such certifications could be discontinued. However, there can be no assurance that such certifications will be maintained indefinitely. We currently maintain, for each of our vessels, pollution liability coverage insurance in the amount of $1.0 billion per incident. In addition, we carry hull and machinery and protection and indemnity insurance to cover the risks of fire and explosion. Given the relatively small amount of bunkers our vessels carry, we believe that a spill of oil from the vessels should not be catastrophic. However, under certain circumstances, fire and explosion could result in a catastrophic loss. While we believe that our present insurance coverage is adequate, not all risks can be insured, and there can be no guarantee that any specific claim will be paid, or that we will always be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates. If the damages from a catastrophic spill exceeded our insurance coverage, it would have a severe effect on us and could possibly result in our insolvency. We believe that regulation of the shipping industry will continue to become more stringent and more expensive for us and our competitors. Substantial violations of applicable requirements or a catastrophic release from one of our vessels could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our vessels are subject to periodic inspections by a classification society The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention. Our fleet is currently classed with Bureau Veritas, Nippon Kaiji Kyokai, or NKK, the American Bureau of Shipping, Det Norske Veritas and RINA SpA. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel's machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Our vessels are on special survey cycles for hull inspection and continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection. Every vessel is also required to be drydocked every two to three years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. If a vessel does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey or special survey, the vessel will be unable to trade between ports and will be unemployable and we could be in violation of covenants in our loan agreements and insurance contracts or other financing arrangements. This would adversely impact our operations and revenues. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and others may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of funds to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the ‘‘sister ship’’ theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any ‘‘associated’’ vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert ‘‘sister ship’’ liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our ships or, possibly, another vessel managed by the Vafias Group. 8 Table of Contents Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of revenues A government could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner. Also, a government could requisition our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels would adversely impact our operations and revenues, thereby resulting in loss of revenues. Risks involved with operating ocean-going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which would adversely affect our revenues and stock price The operation of an ocean-going vessel carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: • marine accident or disaster; • piracy and terrorism; • explosions; • environmental accidents; • pollution; • loss of life; • cargo and property losses or damage; and • business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues. The involvement of our vessels in a serious accident could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel operator and lead to a loss of business. Our vessels may suffer damage and we may face unexpected drydocking and repair costs, which could affect our cash flow and financial condition If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a shipyard facility. The costs of drydocking and repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to pay drydocking and repair costs that our insurance does not cover. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would have an adverse effect on our cash flow and financial condition. We do not intend to carry business interruption insurance. Our operations outside the United States expose us to global risks, such as terrorism, that may interfere with the operation of our vessels We are an international company and primarily conduct our operations outside the United States. Changing economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we are engaged in business or where our vessels are registered affect us. In the past, political conflicts, particularly in the Arabian Gulf, resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt shipping in the area. For example, in October 2002, the vessel Limburg was attacked by terrorists in Yemen. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Following the terrorist attack in New York City on September 11, 2001, and the military response of the United States, including the recent conflict in Iraq, the likelihood of future acts of terrorism may increase, and our vessels may face higher risks of being attacked. In addition, future hostilities or other political instability in regions where our vessels trade could affect our trade patterns and adversely affect our operations and performance. Furthermore, future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility of the financial markets in the United States and globally and could result in an 9 Table of Contents economic recession in the United States or the world. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenue and costs. Terrorist attacks, or the perception that LPG or LNG facilities and LPG or LNG carriers are potential terrorist targets, could materially and adversely affect the continued supply of LPG and LNG to the United States and to other countries. Concern that LPG and LNG facilities may be targeted for attack by terrorists has contributed to a significant community and environmental resistance to the construction of a number of LNG facilities, primarily in North America. If a terrorist incident involving a gas facility or gas carrier did occur, the incident may adversely affect necessary LPG facilities or LNG facilities currently in operation. Risks Related To Our Business Because we have a limited operating history, our limited historical financial and operating data may not be a reliable indicator of our prospects and future performance and may not be sufficient to evaluate our business plan We have a limited operating history. The consolidated financial statements included in this report on Form 20-F reflect the historical business activities of our vessel-owning companies both before and after their acquisition by us. Our consolidated financial statements have been presented as if the vessel-owning companies were our consolidated subsidiaries as of the dates indicated in our consolidated financial statements and using the combined historical carrying costs of the assets and the liabilities of such vessel-owning companies. Our consolidated financial statements cover only the period from October 12, 2004 to December 31, 2004 and the year ended December 31, 2005. Accordingly, we have only a limited operating history upon which you can evaluate our prospects and future performance. These periods covered by our consolidated financial statements may be too short to determine whether our business will succeed. Our prospects may be adversely affected by the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered in the operation of a new business in an evolving and competitive industry. Dependence on our relationship with the Vafias Group and Stealth Maritime We currently do not have any salaried employees, although we intend to continue to reimburse our fleet manager, Stealth Maritime, for the salaries of our CEO and CFO. As of March 31, 2006, Stealth Maritime has served as the technical manager for one of the vessels in our fleet while subcontracting the technical management of the remaining vessels in our fleet to third party managers. We are accordingly dependent upon our fleet manager, Stealth Maritime, for the administration, chartering and operations supervision of our fleet. Stealth Maritime is a privately-owned company controlled by the Vafias Group and about which there is little public information. We depend on our relationship with the Vafias Group for: • our recognition and acceptance in the LPG carrier sector, including our ability to attract charterers; • relations with charterers and charter brokers; • operational expertise; and • management experience. The loss of Stealth Maritime's services or its failure to perform its obligations to us properly for financial or other reasons could materially and adversely affect our business and the results of our operations. Although we may have rights against Stealth Maritime if it defaults on its obligations to us, you will have no recourse against Stealth Maritime. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to find a replacement manager on terms as favorable as those currently in place with Stealth Maritime. Further, we expect that we will need to seek approval from our lenders to change our manager. We depend on third party managers to manage our fleet Stealth Maritime subcontracts the technical management of our fleet, including crewing, operation, maintenance and repair, to third party managers. The loss of their services or their failure 10 Table of Contents to perform their obligations could materially and adversely affect the results of our operations. Although we may have rights against these managers if they default on their obligations, you will have no recourse against these parties. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to find replacement technical managers on terms as favorable as those currently in place. Further, we expect that we will need to seek approval from our lenders to change these third party managers. We may enter into certain significant transactions with companies affiliated with the Vafias Group which may result in conflicts of interests In addition to our management contract with Stealth Maritime, a company controlled by the Vafias Group and the Vafias family, of which our CEO is a member, we may enter into other transactions with companies affiliated with the Vafias Group. Such transactions could create conflicts of interest that could adversely affect our business or your interests as stockholders of our common stock, as well as our financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. Our directors and officers may in the future hold direct or indirect interests in companies that compete with us Our directors and officers each have a history of involvement in the shipping industry and may in the future, directly or indirectly, hold investments in companies that compete with us. In that case, they may face conflicts between their own interests and their obligations to us. Stealth Maritime and companies affiliated with Stealth Maritime may acquire vessels that compete with our fleet It is possible that Stealth Maritime or companies affiliated with Stealth Maritime could, in the future, agree to manage vessels that compete directly with ours. As long as Stealth Maritime is our fleet manager, Stealth Maritime has granted us a right of first refusal to acquire any LPG carrier, which Stealth Maritime, its principals or any of their controlled affiliates may acquire in the future. In addition, Stealth Maritime has agreed that it will not charter-in any LPG carrier without first offering the opportunity to charter-in such vessel to us. Were we, however, to decline any such opportunity offered to us or if we do not have the resources or desire to accept any such opportunity, Stealth Maritime could retain and manage the vessel. Furthermore, this right of first refusal does not prohibit Stealth Maritime from managing vessels owned by unaffiliated third parties in competition with us. In such cases, they could compete with our fleet and may face conflicts between their own interests and their obligations to us. In addition, in the future, we may also consider diversifying into wet, dry or other gas shipping sectors. Any such vessels would be in competition with Stealth Maritime and companies affiliated with Stealth Maritime. Stealth Maritime might be faced with conflicts of interest with respect to their own interests and their obligations to us that could adversely affect our business and your interests as stockholders. As our current charters expire, new charters at attractive rates may not be available which would have an adverse impact on our revenues and financial condition Charter rates for LPG carriers are currently at their highest levels in recent years. In the remainder of 2006 and in 2007, we expect to derive the greater part of our revenues from period charters, including time and bareboat charters. When these current charters expire, it may not be possible to re-charter these vessels at similar rates and as a result, we may have to accept lesser rates or experience off-hire time for our vessels, which may adversely impact our revenues and financial condition. We are dependent on the ability of our charterers to honor their commitments to us for all our revenues We derive all our revenues from the payment of hire by charterers. If our charterers encounter financial difficulties and cannot pay us, or otherwise refuse to pay us, our recourse against them may be limited or may not be able to be undertaken in a timely fashion. Non-payment by charterers would have a material adverse effect on our revenues. 11 Table of Contents As our fleet continues to grow in size, we will need to improve our operations and financial systems, staff and crew; if we cannot improve these systems or recruit suitable employees, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected We have rapidly expanded our fleet in the past twelve months, and our current operating and financial systems may not be adequate as we implement our plan to continue to expand the size of our fleet, and our attempts to improve those systems may be ineffective. In addition, as we expand our fleet, we will have to rely on our technical managers to recruit suitable additional seafarers and shoreside administrative and management personnel. We cannot assure you that Stealth Maritime and those technical managers will be able to continue to hire suitable employees as we expand our fleet. Our LPG carriers require a technically skilled staff with specialized training. If the technical managers' crewing agents are unable to employ such technically skilled staff, they may not be able to adequately staff our vessels. If Stealth Maritime is unable to operate our financial and operations systems effectively or our technical managers are unable to recruit suitable employees as we expand our fleet, our results of operation may be adversely affected. We depend upon a few significant customers for a large part of our revenues. The loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect our financial performance In our limited operating history we have derived a significant part of our revenue from a small number of charterers. For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 69% of our revenue was derived from our five largest charter customers. We anticipate continuing to service these customers as well as additional customers which will represent significant amounts of our revenue after our acquisition of additional vessels which we have yet to identiy. If we encounter any difficulties in our relationships with these charterers, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we fail to manage our planned growth properly, we may not be able to successfully expand our market share The acquisition of additional vessels imposes significant additional responsibilities on our management and staff, and may necessitate that we, and they, increase the number of personnel. We intend to continue to grow our fleet. We may not be able to identify suitable vessels, acquire vessels on advantageous terms or obtain financing for such acquisitions. Our growth will depend on: • locating and acquiring suitable vessels; • identifying and completing acquisitions or joint ventures; • integrating any acquired business successfully with our existing operations; • expanding our customer base; • managing our expansion; and • obtaining required financing. Growing our business by acquisition presents numerous risks such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, difficulty experienced in obtaining additional qualified personnel and managing relationships with customers and our commercial and technical managers and integrating newly acquired vessels into existing infrastructures. We cannot give any assurance that we will be successful in executing our growth plans or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection therewith. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the LPG carrier industry, which may negatively affect the effectiveness of our management and our results of operation Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team, including our CEO, Harry Vafias, and our Chief Financial Officer, Andrew Simmons. In 12 Table of Contents addition, Harry Vafias is a member of the Vafias family, which controls the Vafias Group, which in turn controls Stealth Maritime, our fleet manager. Our success will depend upon our and Stealth Maritime's ability to hire and retain qualified managers to oversee our operations. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. We do not have employment agreements directly with our CEO or Chief Financial Officer, who are technically employees of Stealth Maritime, our fleet manager, although under our management agreement with Stealth Maritime, our relationship with each of our CEO and Chief Financial Officer is governed by terms substantially similar to those typically included in employment agreements. We do not intend to maintain ‘‘key man’’ life insurance on any of our officers. Our CEO has limited experience running a public company While our CEO, Harry Vafias, age 28, has been actively involved in the management and operation of vessels for several years as an employee of the Vafias Group, he has not had prior experience as a CEO of a public company. Mr. Vafias will have to rely on the experience of the Vafias Group for the management of our vessels, as well as the advice and oversight of the Board of Directors, in his role as our CEO. A significant increase in our debt levels may adversely affect us and our cash flows We have recently incurred additional debt to acquire more vessels and the need to service the indebtedness may impact our profitability and cash available for growth of our fleet, working capital and dividends. Additionally, an increase in the present interest rate levels may increase the cost of servicing our indebtedness with similar results. To finance our future fleet expansion program beyond our current fleet, we expect to incur additional secured debt. We will have to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest on our debt. These payments will limit funds otherwise available for working capital, capital expenditures, dividends and other purposes. The need to service our debt may limit our funds available for other purposes, including distributing cash to our stockholders, and our inability to service our debt could lead to acceleration of our debt and foreclosure on our fleet. Moreover, carrying secured indebtedness exposes us to increased risks if the demand for LPG product transportation drops significantly and charter rates and vessel values are adversely affected. Our loan agreements or other financing arrangements contain restrictive covenants that may limit our liquidity and corporate activities Our loan agreements impose, and our future financing arrangements may impose, operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens on our assets; • sell capital stock of our subsidiaries; • make investments; • engage in mergers or acquisitions; • pay dividends; and • make capital expenditures. The Fortis Bank loan agreement requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial covenants. These financial ratios and covenants include requirements that we: • maintain an aggregate minimum cash balance with Fortis Bank of at least $3.0 million; • ensure that our ratio of our total liabilities less total stockholders' equity to total assets does not exceed 0.80 to 1.0 at any time; and 13 Table of Contents • maintain a ratio of the aggregate market value of the vessels securing the loan to the principal amount of the loan of at least 1.25 to 1. As of December 31, 2005, our ratio of the aggregate market value of the vessels securing the loan to the principal amount of the loan was 1.90 to 1. The DnB NOR Bank loan agreement requires us to maintain a ratio of the aggregate market value of the vessels securing the loan to the principal amount of the loan of at least 1.25 to 1. Under the DnB NOR Bank loan agreement, we are also required to ensure that the ratio of our total net debt to the total value of our adjusted assets less cash does not exceed 0.80 to 1.0 at any time and that the ratio of our consolidated EBITDA to our consolidated gross interest expense be at least 2.5. As of December 31, 2005, our ratio of the aggregate market value of the vessels securing the loan to the principal amount of the loan was 1.66 to 1, the ratio of our total net debt to the total value of our adjusted assets less cash was 0.31 to 1.0 and the ratio of our consolidated EBITDA to our consolidated gross interest expense was 7.5. As a result of the restrictions in our loan agreements, or similar restrictions in our future financing arrangements with respect to future vessels which we have yet to identify, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate actions. Our lenders' interests may be different from ours, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain their permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that we believe are in our best interest. A failure by us to meet our payment and other obligations could lead to defaults under our secured loan agreements. Our lenders could then accelerate our indebtedness and foreclose on our fleet. The loss of our vessels would mean we could not run our business. Our ability to obtain additional debt financing may be dependent on the performance of our then existing charters and the creditworthiness of our charterers The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional capital resources that we will require to purchase additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such capital. Our inability to obtain additional financing at all or at a higher than anticipated cost may materially affect our results of operation and our ability to implement our business strategy. Because we generate all of our revenues in United States dollars but incur a significant portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could hurt our results of operations We generate all of our revenues in United States dollars and a portion, depending on the trade routes, of our vessels' expenses in currencies other than United States dollars. This difference could lead to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the United States dollar relative to the other currencies, in particular the Euro. Expenses incurred in foreign currencies against which the United States dollar falls in value can increase, decreasing our net income. We have not hedged these risks. Our operating results could suffer as a result. In the highly competitive international LPG carrier market, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources We deploy our vessels in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of which have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of LPG can be intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its managers to the charterers. Competitors with greater resources could enter and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions that may be able to offer more competitive prices and fleets. We principally operate in one segment of the shipping industry, the seaborne transport of LPG, and our lack of a diversified business could adversely affect us Unlike many other shipping companies, which may carry drybulk, crude oil and oil products, we currently depend primarily on the transport of LPG. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from a 14 Table of Contents single source — the seaborne transport of LPG — and our lack of a diversified business model could adversely affect us if the LPG seaborne transport business fails to perform to our expectations. If we expand into dry, wet or other gas shipping sectors, we may not be able to successfully execute such expansion plans, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition In the future, we may expand into dry, wet or other gas shipping sectors if opportunities arise. We have limited experience in these sectors and an inability to successfully execute such expansion plans could: • be costly; • distract us from our LPG carrier business; and • divert management resources, each of which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Purchasing and operating previously owned, or secondhand, vessels may result in increased operating costs and vessels off-hire, which could adversely affect our revenues Our examination of secondhand vessels, which may not include physical inspection prior to purchase, does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition and cost of any required (or anticipated) repairs that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Generally, we do not receive the benefit of warranties on secondhand vessels. In general, the costs of maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increase with its age. The average age of the 24 LPG carriers in our fleet is approximately 10.8 years. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which the vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. If we sell vessels, we cannot be certain that the sales prices will equal at least their carrying values at that time. The shipping industry has inherent operational risks that may not be adequately covered by our insurance We procure hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes environmental damage and pollution insurance coverage, insurance and war risk insurance for our fleet. We can give no assurance that we are adequately insured against all risks. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our fleet in the future. The insurers may not pay particular claims. Even if our insurance coverage is adequate, we may not be able to timely obtain a replacement vessel in the event of a loss. Our insurance policies contain deductibles for which we will be responsible and limitations and exclusions which may increase our costs or lower our revenue. Our existing major stockholder effectively controls the outcome of matters on which our stockholders are entitled to vote and his interests may be different from yours Our current major stockholder, a company controlled by our CEO, owns approximately 42.9% of our outstanding common stock and effectively controls the outcome of matters on which our stockholders are entitled to vote, including the election of our entire Board of Directors and other significant corporate actions. The interests of this stockholder may be different from your interests. We may have to pay tax on United States-source income, which would reduce our earnings Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of vessel owning or chartering corporations, such as our subsidiaries, that is 15 Table of Contents attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as United States shipping income. United States shipping income is subject to either a (i) 4% United States federal income tax without allowance for deductions or (ii) taxation at the standard United States federal income tax rates (and potentially to a 30% branch profits tax), unless derived by a corporation that qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder. Generally, our subsidiaries will qualify for this exemption for a taxable year if our shares are treated as ‘‘primarily and regularly traded’’ on an established securities market in the United States. Our shares of common stock will be so treated if (i) the aggregate number of our shares of common stock traded during such year on an established securities market in the United States exceeds the aggregate number of our shares of common stock traded during that year on established securities markets in any other single country, (ii) either (x) our shares of common stock are regularly quoted during such year by dealers making a market in our shares or (y) trades in our shares of common stock are effected, other than in de minimis quantities, on an established securities market in the United States on at least 60 days during such taxable year and the aggregate number of our shares of common stock traded on an established securities market in the United States during such year equals at least 10% of the average number of our shares of common stock outstanding during such taxable year and (iii) our shares of common stock are not ‘‘closely held’’ during such taxable year. For these purposes, our shares of common stock will be treated as closely held during a taxable year if, for more than one-half the number of days in such taxable year, one or more persons each of whom owns either directly or under applicable attribution rules, at least 5% of our shares of common stock, own, in the aggregate, 50% or more of our shares of common stock, unless we can establish, in accordance with applicable documentation requirements, that a sufficient number of the shares of common stock in the closely-held block are owned, directly or indirectly, by persons that are residents of foreign jurisdictions that provide United States shipping companies with an exemption from tax that is equivalent to that provided by Section 883 to preclude other stockholders in the closely-held block from owning 50% or more of the closely-held block of shares of common stock. We believe that it may currently be the case, and may be the case in the future, that, one or more persons each of whom owns, either directly or under applicable attribution rules, at least 5% of our shares of common stock own, in the aggregate, 50% or more of our shares of common stock. In such circumstances, we and our subsidiaries may qualify for the exemption provided in Section 883 of the Code only if enough of the closely-held block of our shares of common stock was owned or treated as owned by ‘‘qualified stockholders’’ so it could not be the case that, for more than half of the days in our taxable year, the shares of common stock in the closely-held block not owned or treated as owned by qualified stockholders represented 50% or more of our shares of common stock. For these purposes, a ‘‘qualified stockholder’’ includes an individual that owns or is treated as owning shares of our common stock and is a resident of a jurisdiction that provides an exemption that is equivalent to that provided by Section 883 of the Code and certain other persons; provided in each case that such individual or other person complies with certain documentation and certification requirements set forth in the Section 883 regulations and designed to establish status as a qualified stockholder. Our CEO, who currently, under applicable constructive ownership rules owns approximately 42.9% of our shares of common stock has entered into an agreement with us regarding his compliance, and the compliance by certain entities that he controls and through which he owns our shares, with the certification procedures designed to establish status as a qualified stockholder. In certain circumstances, his compliance and the compliance of such entities he controls with the terms of that agreement may enable us and our subsidiaries to qualify for the benefits of Section 883 even where persons each of whom owns, either directly or under applicable attribution rules, 5% or more of our shares own, in the aggregate, more than 50% of our outstanding shares. There can be no assurance, however, that his compliance and the compliance of such entities he controls with the terms of that agreement will enable us or our subsidiaries to qualify for the benefits of Section 883. The entities that own our vessels that we acquired through stock acquisitions in 2005 may not qualify for the benefits of Section 883 for 2005, with the result that United States federal tax, as 16 Table of Contents described below, may apply if such vessels made voyages in 2005 that began or ended in the United States. We do not believe that such vessels made such a voyage. If our subsidiaries do not qualify for the exemption under Section 883 of the Code for any taxable year, they would be subject for those years to the 4% United States federal income tax on their gross United States shipping income or, in certain circumstances to net income taxation at the standard United States federal income tax rates (and potentially also to a 30% branch profits tax). The imposition of such tax could have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our stockholders. United States tax authorities could treat us as a ‘‘passive foreign investment company,’’ which could have adverse United States federal income tax consequences to United States holders A foreign corporation will be treated as a ‘‘passive foreign investment company,’’ or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of ‘‘passive income’’ or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of ‘‘passive income.’’ For purposes of these tests, ‘‘passive income’’ includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute ‘‘passive income’’ and working capital and similar assets held pending investment in vessels will generally be treated as an asset which produces passive income. United States stockholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous United States federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our historic operations and our proposed method of operation we do not believe that we were a PFIC for 2005 and do not expect to qualify as a PFIC with respect to any subsequent taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. We believe that our income from our time chartering activities does not constitute ‘‘passive income,’’ and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. We intend to treat the income that we derive from bareboat charters as ‘‘passive income,’’ and the assets giving rise to such income as ‘‘passive assets’’ for the purposes of the PFIC rules. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our current and proposed method of operation. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we have been, are or will become a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. Our expectation that we will not be treated as a PFIC is based in part upon our beliefs and expectations regarding the value of the vessels that we will lease on a bareboat basis relative to the value of our other assets. Should our beliefs or expectations turn out to be incorrect, then we could, in certain circumstances, be treated as a PFIC. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our United States stockholders would face adverse United States tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those stockholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such stockholders, as discussed below under Item 10 ‘‘Tax Considerations — United States Federal Income Taxation of United States Holders’’), such stockholders would be liable to pay United States federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our shares of common stock, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the stockholder's holding period of our shares of common stock. See Item 10 ‘‘Tax Considerations — United States Federal Income Tax Considerations — United States Federal Income Taxation of United States Holders’’ for a 17 Table of Contents more comprehensive discussion of the United States federal income tax consequences to United States stockholders if we are treated as a PFIC. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and bylaws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. Stockholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, our public stockholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling stockholders than would stockholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. It may be difficult to enforce service of process and enforcement of judgments against us and our officers and directors We are a Marshall Islands company, and our executive offices are located outside of the United States in Athens, Greece. All but one of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States, and most of our assets and their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, you may have difficulty serving legal process within the United States upon us or any of these persons. You may also have difficulty enforcing, both in and outside the United States, judgments you may obtain in the United States courts against us or these persons in any action, including actions based upon the civil liability provisions of United States federal or state securities laws. There is also substantial doubt that the courts of the Marshall Islands or Greece would enter judgments in original actions brought in those courts predicated on United States, federal or state securities laws. Risks Related To Our Shares of Common Stock We may not be able to pay cash dividends on our shares of common stock as intended. We intend to declare and pay dividends to stockholders quarterly in amounts our Board of Directors determines are appropriate. We made a dividend payment of $0.1875 per share in January 2006. However, we could incur expenses, obligations or liabilities that would reduce or eliminate the cash we have available for distribution as dividends. Our loan agreements, including the loan agreements with Fortis Bank and DnB NOR Bank, or other financing arrangements, as well as Marshall Islands law, may also restrict or prohibit our declaration and payment of dividends under some circumstances. There can be no assurance that we will pay regular quarterly dividends in the future. Such dividends as we do pay may be in amounts less than the $0.1875 per share dividend we declared and paid in January 2006. Identifying and acquiring other vessels may take a significant amount of time. We may not be able to earn charterhire consistent with our current anticipations, and our profitability and our ability to pay dividends will be affected. In addition, the declaration and payment of dividends will be subject at all times to the discretion of our Board of Directors. The timing and amount of dividends will depend on our earnings, financial condition, cash requirements and availability, fleet renewal and expansion, restrictions in our loan agreements or other financing arrangements, the provisions of Marshall Islands law affecting the payment of dividends and other factors. Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends other than from surplus or while a company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent upon the payment of such dividends. 18 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could make it difficult for our stockholders to replace or remove our current Board of Directors or have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock Several provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it difficult for our stockholders to change the composition of our Board of Directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions include: • authorizing our Board of Directors to issue ‘‘blank check’’ preferred stock without stockholder approval; • providing for a classified Board of Directors with staggered three-year terms; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • authorizing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of 80% of the outstanding shares of our common stock entitled to vote for the directors; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and • prohibiting certain transactions with interested stockholders. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. Item 