ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Statements in this Annual Report under the captions "BUSINESS" and "MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS", as well as oral statements that may be made by us or by our officers, directors or employees acting on our behalf, that are not historical fact constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to be materially different from the historical results or from any results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth below. We do not intend to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events. -9- OUR EXTREMELY LIMITED HISTORY MAKES AN EVALUATION OF US AND OUR FUTURE EXTREMELY DIFFICULT, AND PROFITS ARE NOT ASSURED. The Company has historically been a blank check company. It was formed in 2005 to serve as a vehicle for the acquisition, through a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition or other similar business combination with a then unidentified operating business. As described in "ITEM 1. BUSINESS--OVERVIEW-- Early Company History", on September 6, 2006, the Company, Multi-Shot and various other parties entered into the Merger Agreement and related agreements. Over the course of this transaction, the parties twice amended the terms of the Merger Agreement and twice extended the transaction. On January 31, 2008, the Company announced that the special meeting of its stockholders to vote on the proposed merger with Multi-Shot had been cancelled because the Company determined that the proposed merger would not receive the votes of its stockholders required for approval. The Merger Agreement expired on January 31, 2008, and the proposed merger with Multi-Shot was abandoned. Because the Company did not consummate a qualifying business combination, the Company's Board of Directors contemplated alternatives for preserving value for stockholders. Before any such action was taken, a change of control of the Company occurred on December 31, 2009 when GGH acquired from the Company's two largest stockholders shares of the Company's common stock representing approximately 96.5% of the outstanding shares of the common stock. GGH purchased the shares to pursue a business opportunity through the Company, pursuant to which the Company will seek to sell residential real estate in the United States (initially primarily in California) to international home buyers (residing initially in China). See "ITEM 1. BUSINESS--OVERVIEW--Recent Change in Control". Currently, we have entered into several letters of intent for option agreements to acquire residential properties for sale through our distribution partner in China. However, to date, we have established no track record of selling United States properties internationally. In view of our extremely limited operating history, you may have difficulty in evaluating us and our business and prospects. You must consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in their early stage of development. WE HAVE CERTAIN CAPITAL NEEDS, AND THE PROCUREMENT OF FINANCING TO MEET THESE NEEDS IS UNCERTAIN. We currently have no revenues. Our future liquidity will depend upon numerous factors, including the success of our residential property sales efforts and our capital raising activities. We believe we have sufficient funds to run our business for at least the next 12 months but for our long-term stability we will need funds to finance our day-to-day needs, if sales do not materialize within that timeframe. We plan to finance our operations for the next 12 months through cash flow from consignment sales, private placements of debt and equity, possible bank borrowings and possible joint venture arrangements. In addition, we are currently looking for a source of bank financing to provide financing for our international clients to allow them to complete their residential property acquisitions. However, there can be no assurance that we will find such a mortgage lending source. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will realize the unit sales that we are now anticipating. If our revenues do not materialize for whatever reason, we may have limited ability to expend the capital necessary to undertake or complete consignment or acquisition programs. WE DEPEND ON CERTAIN KEY PERSONNEL. We substantially depend upon the efforts and skills of Steven Gidumal, a director and the Chairman of the Company, Tim Wilkens, a director and the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and Brandon Birtcher, the President of the Company. The loss of Mr. Gidumal's, Mr. Wilkens' or Mr. Birtcher's services, or their inability to devote sufficient attention to our operations, could materially and adversely affect our operations. We currently do not maintain key man life insurance on Mr. Gidumal, Mr. Wilkens or Mr. Birtcher. -10- OUR CURRENT MANAGEMENT RESOURCES MAY NOT BE SUFFICIENT FOR THE FUTURE, AND WE HAVE NO ASSURANCE THAT WE CAN ATTRACT ADDITIONAL QUALIFIED PERSONNEL. There can be no assurance that the current level of management is sufficient to perform all responsibilities necessary or beneficial for management to perform. Our success in attracting additional qualified personnel will depend on many factors, including our ability to provide them with competitive compensation arrangements, equity participation and other benefits. There is no assurance that (if we need to) we will be successful in attracting highly qualified individuals in key management positions. LIMITATIONS ON CLAIMS AGAINST OUR OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS, AND OUR OBLIGATION TO INDEMNIFY THEM, COULD PREVENT OUR RECOVERY FOR LOSSES CAUSED BY THEM. The corporation law of Delaware allows a Delaware corporation to limit the liability of its directors to the corporation and its stockholders to a certain extent, and our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation has eliminated our directors' liability to the maximum extent permitted by the corporation law of Delaware. Moreover, our Bylaws provide that we must indemnify each director, officer, agent and/or employee to the maximum extent provided for by the corporation law of Delaware. Further, we may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any such persons whether or not we have the power to indemnify such person against the liability insured against. Consequently, because of the actions or omissions of officers, directors, agents and employees, we could incur substantial losses and be prevented from recovering such losses from such persons. Further, the Commission maintains that indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities Act is against the public policy expressed in the Securities Act, and is therefore unenforceable. MANAGEMENT OWNS A CONTROLLING PERCENTAGE OF OUR OUTSTANDING STOCK, AND CUMULATIVE VOTING IS NOT AVAILABLE TO STOCKHOLDERS. Our current management, Steven Gidumal, Tim Wilkens (through two family trusts he controls) and Brandon Birtcher, currently own (directly or indirectly) approximately 96.5% of our outstanding common stock (considered on an undiluted basis) through their ownership of all of the shares of common stock of GGH. Although Section 214 of the Delaware General Corporation Law allows for cumulative voting if a corporation's certificate of incorporation specifically provides for it, the Company's Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation has no provision for cumulative voting. Accordingly, the holder or holders of a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock may elect all of our directors. Management's large percentage ownership of our outstanding common stock helps enable them to maintain their positions as such and thus control of our business and affairs. WE MAY EXPERIENCE RAPID GROWTH, AND IN SUCH CASE WE WILL NEED TO MANAGE THIS GROWTH EFFECTIVELY. We believe that, given the right business conditions and opportunities, we may expand our operations rapidly and significantly. If rapid growth were to occur, it could place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. To manage any significant growth of our operations, we will be required to undertake the following successfully: -11- * Manage relationships with various strategic partners and other third parties; * Hire and retain skilled personnel necessary to support our business; * Train and manage a growing employee base; and * Continually develop our financial and information management systems. If we fail to make adequate allowances for the costs and risks associated with this expansion or if our systems, procedures or controls are not adequate to support our operations, our business could be harmed. Our inability to manage growth effectively could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. REAL ESTATE PRICES CAN BE VOLATILE, WHICH MAY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO ATTRACT BUYERS AT THE PRICES WE NEED TO MAKE A PROFIT. Our revenues, profitability and future growth and the carrying value of our properties will depend substantially on the prices we realize for the sale of our consigned and owned units. Our realized prices will also affect the amount of cash flow available for subsequent acquisitions and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. Residential homes are currently in surplus supply and their prices are subject to fluctuation in response to changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for California residential real estate have shown consistent growth although the State went through a period of price deflation in the 1993 - 1995 timeframe, and the California market is likely to continue to be volatile during the current recession. Despite the historically low current prices for California residential properties, there can be no assurance that even lower prices will not be experienced in the future. Residential real estate price movements cannot be predicted with certainty. A substantial or extended decline in California residential home prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to finance property acquisitions. THE SUCCESS OF OUR BUSINESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO SELECT RESIDENTIAL PROJECTS THAT ULTIMATELY PROVE SUCCESSFUL ECONOMICALLY. The economic success of any project will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to discern and estimate the quantity of residential projects we can sell at a price sufficient to make a profit after corporate overhead and any financing carrying costs. All of these factors affect whether or not a project will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. Our assessments and estimations of these factors (which are inherently inexact and uncertain) may prove inaccurate. Although we have criterion for selecting the residential projects that we will decide to pursue, we might stray from it. Accordingly, we will have significant flexibility in selecting such projects. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify economically successful residential projects or that we will be able to pursue these projects successfully even if identified. Our failure to select economically successful residential projects will materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We will be constantly challenged to add new projects through further consignments or further acquisitions of new properties. There can be no assurance that our acquisition efforts will be successful in adding new profitable projects. If we fail to identify new projects, our future revenues, profitability and cash flows will be adversely impacted. -12- WE ARE CURRENTLY FOCUSING OUR PROPERTY CONSIGNMENT AND ACQUISITION EFFORTS IN ONLY ONE GEOGRAPHICAL AREA, AND OUR CURRENT LACK OF GREATER DIVERSIFICATION ENTAILS RISK. Currently, all of our potential consignment and acquisition contracts are in the State of California, although we may in the future explore properties in Nevada, Washington, Arizona and Florida. To our foreign clients, California is generally considered a desirable, travel-accessible destination. At the present, our success depends entirely upon our ability to locate and secure properties on a profitable basis in California. There can be no assurance that we will be able to do this, and that we will not encounter one or more problems arising from the particular legal, economic, environmental and market conditions of California. Our current lack of diversification beyond California may make our results of operations more volatile than they would be if we were seeking to sell residential properties in more than one area. OUR INABILITY TO PROCURE ADEQUATE INSURANCE COVERAGE FOR CERTAIN OCCURANCES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Presently, as we close on projects under contract, we intend to broaden our insurance coverage. However, we may choose not to obtain insurance for some risks if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, some risks may either not be fully insurable or not insurable at all. Even if we broaden our insurance coverage, our insurance would probably not cover all potential claims or may not adequately indemnify us for all liability to which we will be exposed. Any liability or legal defense expenses not covered by insurance or exceeding our insurance coverage could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, we do not currently carry business interruption insurance. WE WILL RELY ON A NUMBER OF THIRD PARTIES, AND SUCH RELIANCE EXPOSES US TO A NUMBER OF RISKS. Our operations will depend on a number of third parties. We will have limited control over these third parties. We will rely on Premier Capital, an international seller of real estate properties that was founded in 1988 and expanded into China in 1997. We believe that Premier Capital is one of the leading sellers of international properties to Chinese citizens. We will be reliant upon Premier Capital's ability to bring potential buyers to presentations of the Company's real estate in the five leading cities of China and to follow up on all leads with prospective Chinese buyers. The Company has an exclusive four-year agreement with Premier Capital, which limits Premier Capital to sell exclusively the Company's properties located in California, Nevada, Arizona and Washington within China, and the agreement automatically renews for one-year terms upon the satisfaction of certain conditions. See "ITEM 1. BUSINESS - OVERVIEW-- The Company's New Business - Strategic Partner and Exclusive Marketing Agreement". We will also rely upon the services of California based banks to provide mortgage financing to our international buyers. The Company currently is in discussion with a number of banks interested in making mortgage loans to Chinese citizens, and while the level of interest in partnering with the Company appears high, there is no guarantee that such a relationship can be achieved. In addition, we will rely upon our acquisition team to identify promising consignment, auction and acquisition properties suitable for our international clientele. Overall, our inability to maintain satisfactory relationships with the requisite third parties on acceptable commercial terms, or the failure of such third parties to maintain the quality of services they provide at a satisfactory standard, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. -13- THE UNAVAILABILITY OR HIGH COST OF CONSIGNMENT PROPERTIES COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT US. Either shortages or increases in the cost of consignment properties could delay or adversely affect our operations, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These costs may increase further, and necessary consignment properties may not be available to us at economical prices. WE ARE SUBJECT TO COMPLEX LAWS AND REGULATIONS, INCLUDING ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS, WHICH CAN ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COST, MANNER OR FEASIBILITY OF DOING BUSINESS. Acquiring, completing, renovating and selling residential properties are subject to extensive laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with environmental and other governmental regulations. Under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for personal injuries, property damage, remediation and clean-up costs and other environmental damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, these laws and regulations could change in ways that substantially increase our costs. Accordingly, any of these liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. CHANGES IN FOREGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES AND INTEREST RATES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. As a company that will focus on marketing real estate located in the United States to foreign buyers, we will be exposed to certain market risks, specifically with regard to foreign currency exchange risks (and initially in particular the dollar/yuan exchange rate) and interest rates. While we will monitor these exposures, we currently have no plan to manage these risks through hedging or other derivatives transactions. As a result, unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates could affect the affordability of our properties to prospective foreign buyers, which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. OUR COMPETITORS MAY HAVE GREATER RESOURCES, WHICH COULD ENABLE THEM TO PAY A HIGHER PRICE FOR PROPERTIES AND TO BETTER WITHSTAND PERIODS OF LOW MARKET PRICES FOR RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES. The residential real estate industry is intensely competitive, and we compete with other companies that have substantially larger financial resources, operations, staffs and facilities. Many of these companies not only develop, purchase and sell residential properties but also carry on construction operations and market properties on a regional or national basis. Such companies may be able to pay more for residential properties or develop, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, such companies may have a greater ability to continue acquisition activities during periods of low home market prices. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to sell them profitability in the future will be dependent upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. -14- OUR AUTHORIZED PREFERRED STOCK EXPOSES HOLDERS OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO CERTAIN RISKS. Our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share. The authorized but unissued preferred stock constitutes what is commonly referred to as "blank check" preferred stock. This type of preferred stock may be issued by the Board of Directors from time to time on any number of occasions, without stockholder approval, as one or more separate series of shares comprised of any number of the authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock, designated by resolution of the Board of Directors stating the name and number of shares of each series and setting forth separately for such series the relative rights, privileges and preferences thereof, including, if any, the: (i) rate of dividends payable thereon; (ii) price, terms and conditions of redemption; (iii) voluntary and involuntary liquidation preferences; (iv) provisions of a sinking fund for redemption or repurchase; (v) terms of conversion to common stock, including conversion price, and (vi) voting rights. Such preferred stock may provide our Board of Directors the ability to hinder or discourage any attempt to gain control of us by a merger, tender offer at a control premium price, proxy contest or otherwise. Consequently, the preferred stock could entrench our management. Currently, no shares of preferred stock had been issued, nor is there any intention to issue preferred shares at this time. OUR COMMON STOCK HAS EXPERIENCED ONLY LIMITED TRADING. Our Common Stock is quoted and traded in limited quantities on the OTC Electronic Bulletin Board in the United States under the symbol "GNGT.OB" Until shares of our common stock become more broadly held and orderly markets develop and even thereafter, the prices of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities Exchanged Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2007 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 