Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may adversely impact our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any or all of these risks. Risks Relating to Our Business Failure to complete the business separation in an orderly fashion as currently structured could adversely affect our ability to achieve our operating results and objectives. On December 7, 2010 our board of directors approved a plan to separate our wireless and wireline businesses into two publicly traded companies. Consummation of the separation transaction is subject to final approval by the NTELOS Holdings Corp. board of directors. It also is subject to satisfaction of several conditions, including confirmation of the tax-free treatment, receipt of NASDAQ listing, Federal and State telecommunications regulatory approvals, and the filing and effectiveness of a registration statement on Form 10 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Our inability to satisfy any one of these conditions could prevent us from completing the separation. 20 Table of Contents In addition, there are significant operational and technical challenges that need to be addressed in order to separate the assets and operations of the wireline business from the rest of our business. The separation will require the creation of a new publicly traded company with a capital structure appropriate for that company, including the incurrence of at least $300 million indebtedness for the new company to permit us to reduce our current long-term debt by an amount sufficient to reduce out leverage ratio to not greater than 3.25 to 1. The separation also will require the creation and staffing of operational and corporate functional groups and the establishment of ongoing commercial arrangements and transition services arrangements between the separate entities. The spin-off will result in additional expenses and demand a significant amount of management’s time and effort which may divert them from other business concerns. These and other difficulties associated with the separation may lead to potential adverse effects on operating results. Additionally, the separation may not result in the benefits we anticipate or these benefits may be outweighed by dis-synergies, especially if these dis-synergies are greater than originally anticipated. We may not realize the expected benefits of our acquisition of the FiberNet business because of integration difficulties and other significant challenges. The expected benefits from our acquisition of the FiberNet business will depend, in part, on our ability to efficiently integrate the FiberNet business with our existing businesses. The integration process may be time-consuming. The difficulties of integrating the operations of the FiberNet business present a number of risks, including, but not limited to, risks of: incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of operations, expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of the acquisition of the FiberNet business; failure to integrate the operations or management of operations or assets successfully and timely and to retain key personnel and customers; diversion of management’s attention from existing operations or other priorities; and the assumption of or otherwise becoming subject to unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs. The telecommunications industry is generally characterized by rapid development, introduction of new technologies, substantial regulatory changes and intense competition, any of which could cause us to suffer price reductions, customer losses, reduced operating margins and/or loss of market share. The telecommunications industry has been, and we believe will continue to be, characterized by several trends, including the following: • rapid development and introduction of new technologies and services, such as VoIP, location-based services such as GPS mapping technology and high speed data services, including streaming video, mobile gaming and other applications that use EV-DO, Wi-Max, Long Term Evolution technology (“LTE”), or other technologies; • substantial regulatory change due to the continuing efforts of the FCC to reform intercarrier compensation, to modify USF availability, and to limit availability of UNEs used by CLECs under the Telecommunications Act of 1996; • increased competition within established markets from current and new market entrants that may provide competing or alternative services; • an increase in mergers and strategic alliances that allow one telecommunications provider to offer increased services or access to wider geographic markets; and • the blurring of traditional dividing lines between, and the bundling of, different services, such as local telephone, long distance, wireless, video, data and internet services. We expect competition to intensify as a result of new competitors and the development of new technologies, products and services. Some or all of these trends may cause us to have to spend significantly more in capital expenditures than we currently anticipate in order to keep existing, and attract new, customers. Many of our voice and data competitors, such as cable providers, wireless service providers, internet access providers and long distance carriers have brand recognition and financial, personnel, marketing and other resources that are significantly greater than ours. In addition, due to consolidation and strategic alliances within the telecommunications industry, we cannot predict the number of competitors that will emerge, especially as a result of existing or new federal and state regulatory or legislative actions. Such increased competition from existing and new entities could lead to price reductions, loss of customers, reduced operating margins and/or loss of market share. 21 Table of Contents As competition develops and technology evolves, federal and state regulation of the telecommunications industry continues to change rapidly. We anticipate that this state of regulatory flux will persist in the future, as the FCC and state regulators respond to competitive, technological, and legislative developments by modifying their existing regulations or adopting new ones. Taken together or individually, new or changed regulatory requirements affecting any or all of the wireless, local, and long distance industries may harm our business and restrict the manner in which we operate our business. The enactment of adverse regulation or regulatory requirements may slow our growth and have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. The FCC has active proceedings addressing access and other intercarrier payments. Pursuant to legislation passed in 2010 by the Virginia General Assembly, the Virginia State Corporation Commission is conducting a proceeding to reduce the intrastate access charges of Virginia incumbent local exchange carriers by eliminating the carrier common line charge. Further intercarrier compensation reform could result in significant decreases in the access charge revenues received by our rural telephone companies. Future reductions in access revenues will directly affect our profitability and cash flows. While we expect that the FCC would allow these changes to occur over some transition period and would permit our rural telephone companies to offset the impact of reduced revenues with increased subscriber line charges and USF payments, it is unknown whether all or only a portion of the access revenues would be so recovered. We cannot assure you that changes in current or future regulations adopted by the FCC or state regulators, or other legislative, administrative or judicial initiatives relating to the communications industry, would not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, pending congressional legislative efforts to reform the Communications Act may cause major industry and regulatory changes that are difficult to predict. Adverse economic conditions may harm our business. Economic conditions may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Unfavorable economic conditions, including the recession and recent disruptions to the credit and financial markets, could cause customers to slow spending. If demand for our services decreases, our revenues would be adversely affected and churn may increase. In addition, during challenging economic times our customers may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which may impair the ability of our customers to pay for services they have purchased. Any of the above could have a material effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are also susceptible to risks associated with the potential financial instability of the vendors and third parties on which we rely to provide services or to which we outsource certain functions. The same economic conditions that may affect our customers could also adversely affect vendors and third parties and lead to significant increases in prices, reduction in quality or the bankruptcy of our vendors or third parties upon which we rely. Any interruption in the services provided by our vendors or by third parties could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operating and cash flows. Our leverage could adversely affect our financial health. As of December 31, 2010, our total outstanding debt on a consolidated basis, including capital lease obligations, was approximately $749.2 million. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and business and future operations by, among other things: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions by making it more difficult for us to react quickly to changing conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain any additional financing we may need to operate, develop and expand our business; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flows from operations to service our debt, which reduces the funds available for operations and future business opportunities; • potentially making us more highly leveraged than our competitors, which could potentially decrease our ability to compete in our industry; • exposing us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because some of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates; and 22 Table of Contents • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, and the industry in which we operate. The ability to make payments on our debt will depend upon our subsidiaries’ future operating performance, which is subject to general economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which we cannot control. If the cash flows from our subsidiaries’ operating activities are insufficient to service our debt obligations, we may take actions, such as delaying or reducing capital expenditures, reducing or eliminating our quarterly cash dividend, terminating or reducing the amount of our stock repurchase program, attempting to restructure or refinance our debt, selling assets or operations or seeking additional equity capital. Any or all of these actions may not be sufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations. Further, we may be unable to take any of these actions on satisfactory terms, in a timely manner or at all. The NTELOS Inc. senior secured credit facility limits our subsidiaries’ ability to take several of these actions. Our failure to generate sufficient funds to pay our debts or to successfully undertake any of these actions could, among other things, materially adversely affect our ability to repay our obligations under our indebtedness. The NTELOS Inc. senior secured credit facility imposes operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some corporate actions. The NTELOS Inc. senior secured credit facility imposes operating and financial restrictions on our subsidiaries. These restrictions generally: • restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional indebtedness; • restrict our subsidiaries from entering into transactions with affiliates; • restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of their assets; • impose financial covenants relating to the business of our subsidiaries, including leverage and interest coverage ratios; • require our subsidiaries to use a portion of “excess cash flow” (as defined in the agreement) to repay indebtedness if our leverage ratio exceeds specified levels; and • restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make advances to us to grant dividends. We cannot assure you that those covenants will not adversely affect our ability to pay dividends or repurchase stock, finance our future operations or capital needs or pursue available business opportunities. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the NTELOS Inc. senior secured credit facility. If a default occurs, our indebtedness under the NTELOS Inc. senior secured credit facility could be declared immediately due and payable. As a result of general economic conditions, conditions in the lending markets, the results of our business or for any other reason, we may elect or be required to amend or refinance our indebtedness, at or prior to maturity, or enter into additional agreements for senior indebtedness. As previously noted, the proposed business separation will require the creation of a new publicly traded company. Our senior credit facility allows for the separation but requires that our leverage ratio be no higher than 3.25 to 1 at the time of the spinoff. Therefore, we will need to raise sufficient debt for the spun off entity in order that a dividend can be paid to NTELOS in an amount sufficient to pay down our existing debt to reach this required leverage ratio. We will require a significant amount of cash, which may not be available to us, to service our debt and fund our other liquidity needs. Our total debt outstanding, including capital lease obligations, as of December 31, 2010 is $749.2 million. The aggregate maturities of our long-term debt based on the contractual terms of the instruments are $8.6 million in 2011, $8.4 million in 2012, $8.3 million in 2013, $8.0 million in 2014, $721.2 million in 2015 and $0.1 million thereafter. Our ability to make payments on, or to refinance or repay, our debt, fund planned capital expenditures, pay quarterly cash dividends and expand our business will depend largely upon our future operating performance. Our future operating performance is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate enough cash flow, or future borrowings may not be available to us under the NTELOS Inc. senior secured credit facility or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or fund our other liquidity needs. NTELOS Inc.’s senior secured credit facility could restrict our ability to do some of these things. If we are forced to pursue any of the above options under distressed conditions, our business could be adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents Any significant impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets would lead to a decrease in our assets and a reduction in net operating performance. As of December 31, 2010, we had goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $443 million (approximately 39% of total assets), inclusive of approximately $114 million of goodwill and other intangibles from the acquisition of FiberNet and approximately $132 million of radio spectrum licenses. If there are regulatory or operating changes to our business, we may be forced to record an impairment charge, which would lead to a decrease in the company’s assets and reduction in net income. We test goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record an impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill or indefinite lived intangible asset and the implied fair value of the asset in the period in which the determination is made. The testing of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment requires us to make significant estimates about our future performance and cash flows, as well as other assumptions. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in economic, industry or market conditions, changes in underlying business operations, future reporting unit operating performance, existing or new product market acceptance, changes in competition or changes in technologies. Any changes in key assumptions, or actual performance compared with those assumptions, about our business and our future prospects or other assumptions could affect the fair value of one or more of the indefinite-lived intangible assets or of the reporting units, resulting in an impairment charge. Wireless Telecommunications We face substantial competition in the wireless telecommunications industry generally from competitors with substantially greater resources than we have that may be able to offer new technologies services covering a broader geographical area, have exclusive arrangements with handset or software manufacturers, and have lower prices, which could decrease our profitability and cause prices for our services to continue to decline in the future. We operate in a very competitive environment. Our wireless business faces intense competition from other wireless providers, including Verizon Wireless, T-Mobile, AT&T Wireless, U.S. Cellular and Sprint, and prepay resellers, including Boost, Straight Talk, Page Plus, Virgin Mobile, TracFone, and Net10. Competition for customers is based principally upon services and features offered, system coverage, technical quality of the wireless system, price, customer service and network capacity. Our ability to compete will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the telecommunications industry. Some of the carriers with which we compete provide wireless services using cellular frequencies in the 800 MHz band and in the future will use 700 MHz frequencies that were recently auctioned by the FCC. These frequencies enjoy propagation advantages over the PCS and AWS spectrum we currently hold, which may cause us to have to spend more capital than our competitors to achieve the same coverage. The majority of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. These competitors may have greater name recognition and more established relationships with a larger base of current and potential customers and, accordingly, we may not be able to compete successfully. Two of our national wireless competitors acquired a significant portion of the 700 MHz spectrum recently auctioned by the FCC. The national wireless carriers in many instances on average have more spectrum in each of our licensed areas than we do. We may not be able to obtain additional spectrum and thus may be unable to offer future developed services which utilize PCS spectrum or offer services developed for other specific spectrum as a result of not having as much spectrum, or as much spectrum in specific bands, as our competitors do. In addition, the national carriers have distribution with “big box” retailers and exclusive partners. In addition, each of the four largest wireless carriers offers handsets for which that carrier has the exclusive right to provide customers. We do not have exclusivity for any handset that we provide to our customers and are unable to provide the handsets that are available exclusively from other carriers, including the iPhone which was available exclusively to AT&T until the first quarter of 2011 and currently is available only to AT&T and Verizon. We do not know if or when we may be able to offer this handset. Due to this and other handset exclusivity, we may be unable to attract some new customers, and we may lose existing customers Additionally, to the extent there is a shortage issue related to a popular handset model in our lineup, we may not receive the same level of support from the suppliers as carriers with significantly higher buying power. 24 Table of Contents Over the last three years, the per-minute rate for wireless services has declined. Competition and market saturation may cause the prices for wireless products and services to continue to decline in the future. As per-minute rates continue to decline, our revenues and cash flows may be adversely impacted. The effect of aggregate penetration of wireless services in all markets, including our markets, has made it increasingly difficult to attract new customers and retain existing ones. Competition in the wireless prepay market changed dramatically in 2009. Whereas our prepay competitive position was largely uncontested prior to last year, during 2009, a number of large wireless competitors, including Boost, TracFone, Straight Talk, Virgin, T-Mobile and Page Plus, entered the prepaid market. Many of these competitors have access to big box retailers and convenience stores that are unavailable to us. Pricing competition in the prepaid market intensified during the fourth quarter of 2009, with the introduction of a number of prepaid unlimited nationwide plans for less than $50 per month. We also continue to face risks to our competitive “Value” position in the postpay market, including through the introduction in January 2010 of reduced price nationwide unlimited voice plans by competitors such as AT&T, Verizon and US Cellular. As a result of increased competition, we anticipate that the price per minute for wireless voice services will continue to decline while costs to acquire customers, including, without limitation, handset subsidies and advertising and promotion costs, may increase. Our ability to continue to compete effectively will depend upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changes in technology, customer preferences, new service offerings, demographic trends, economic conditions and competitors’ pricing strategies. Failure to successfully market our products and services or to adequately and timely respond to competitive factors could reduce our market share or adversely affect our revenue or net income. In the current wireless market, our competitiveness also depends on our ability to offer nationwide unlimited voice, text and data plans to “switchers” as well as our existing customers. NTELOS relies on roaming agreements with other wireless carriers to provide service in areas not covered by our network. These agreements are subject to renewal and termination if certain events occur, including, without limitation, if network standards are not maintained. If NTELOS is unable to maintain or renew these agreements, our ability to continue to provide competitive regional and nationwide wireless service to our customers could be impaired. The FCC has sought additional comment on the possibility of extending roaming requirements to data roaming, including wireless broadband data services. However, if roaming requirements are not extended to data roaming and if we are unable to negotiate roaming agreements for roaming on 4G networks, we may be at a significant competitive disadvantage when 4G applications become more widespread. If we experience a high rate of wireless customer turnover or seek to prevent significant customer turnover, our revenues could decline and our costs could increase. Many wireless providers in the U.S. have experienced and have sought to prevent a high rate of customer turnover. The rate of customer turnover may be the result of several factors, including limited network coverage, reliability issues such as blocked or dropped calls, handset problems, inability to roam onto third-party networks at competitive rates, or at all, price competition and affordability, customer care concerns, wireless number portability requirements that allow customers to keep their wireless phone number when switching between service providers and other competitive factors. In addition, customers could elect to switch to another carrier that has service offerings dependent on newer network technology. We cannot assure you that our strategies to address customer turnover will be successful. If we experience a high rate of wireless customer turnover or seek to prevent significant customer turnover or fail to replace lost customers, our revenues could decline and our costs could increase which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The loss of our largest customer, Sprint, or a decrease in its usage may result in lower revenues or higher expenses. Sprint accounted for approximately 22% of our operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010. If we were to lose Sprint as a customer or if Sprint became financially unable to pay our charges, our revenues would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Additionally, if Sprint’s financial condition should worsen in a material manner, our business would suffer material adverse consequences which could include termination or revision of our Strategic Network Alliance. Migration by Sprint of customers to non-CDMA technology could result in a decline in the usage of our network by Sprint and could cause an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. A decline in Sprint’s subscriber base could have an adverse effect on its long-term growth, financial condition and strategic direction, which could, in turn, have an adverse effect on our wireless wholesale revenues under the Strategic Network Alliance. 25 Table of Contents The pricing arrangement under our Strategic Network Alliance with Sprint may fluctuate which could result in lower revenues or a decline in the historical growth of our wholesale wireless revenues. Under the Strategic Network Alliance, our wholesale revenues are the greater of $9.0 million per month or the revenues derived based on voice and data usage by Sprint of our network priced at the applicable rates and terms for each of the services categories. Following a contractual travel data rate reset on July 1, 2009, our monthly calculated revenue from Sprint under this contract fell below the $9.0 million minimum and thus we billed and recognized revenue at the $9.0 million minimum stipulated in the contract from the July 2009 travel data rate reset through September 30, 2010. Revenues from this contract exceeded the monthly minimum during the fourth quarter of 2010. All of the rate elements generally fluctuate for the periods specified for each service under the agreement under a formula tied to a national wireless retail customer revenue yield and a national retail data revenue yield. Sprint prices its national calling plans based on its business objectives and it could set price levels or change other characteristics of its plans in a way that may not be economically advantageous for our business or may result in reduction of usage from Sprint customers. Accordingly, our wholesale revenues could decline from the fourth quarter 2010 levels and could be reduced to the $9.0 million minimum in future periods which would impact our long term profitability. If the roaming rates we pay for our customers’ usage of third-party networks increase, our operating results may decline. Many of our competitors have national networks which enable them to more economically offer roaming and long-distance telephone services to their subscribers. We do not have a national network, and we must pay other carriers a per-minute charge for carrying roaming and long-distance calls made by our subscribers. To remain competitive, we absorb a substantial portion of the roaming and long-distance charges without increasing the prices we charge to our subscribers. We have entered into roaming agreements with other communications providers that govern the roaming rates that we are required to pay. As the wireless industry consolidates, our ability to replicate our roaming service offerings at rates which will make us, or allow us to be, competitive is uncertain at this time and may become more difficult. The roaming agreements do not cover all geographic areas where our customers may seek service when they travel and a number of the roaming agreements may be terminated on relatively short notice and may not be renewed in the future. In addition, we believe the rates we are charged by certain carriers in some instances are higher than the rates they charge to other roaming partners. We may also be unable to continue to receive roaming services in areas in which we hold licenses or lease spectrum after the expiration or termination of our existing roaming agreements. Any future renewal also may not include roaming for data services. In addition, under the terms of our Strategic Network Alliance, we have favorable roaming rates with Sprint. If these roaming agreements are terminated, the roaming rates that we are charged may increase and, accordingly, our cash flow and operating results may decline. We may incur significantly higher wireless handset subsidy costs than we anticipate to upgrade existing subscribers. As our subscriber base grows, and technological innovations occur, more existing subscribers are upgrading to new wireless handsets, especially handsets that offer more applications including data-centric and smart phones. We subsidize a portion of the price of wireless handsets and incur sales commissions on the sale or upgrade of handsets. The cost of handsets increase with an increase in features, functionality, and the number of applications they support. This results in our incurring higher handset subsidies. Furthermore, we generally pay more to purchase handsets than many of our national competitors who buy from manufacturers in large volumes. If more subscribers purchase or upgrade to new wireless handsets than we project, our operating results would be adversely affected during the period of the sale or upgrade. Our largest competitors and Sprint may build networks in our markets or use alternative suppliers, which may result in decreased revenues and severe price-based competition. Our current roaming partners, larger wireless providers and Sprint ultimately may build their own wireless networks in our service areas or obtain roaming services from alternative sources. In addition to controlling the iDEN network as a result of the acquisition of Nextel Partners, Sprint controls 10 MHz of spectrum within our service territory in the 1900 MHz PCS band. While the terms of our agreement generally prohibit Sprint Spectrum L.P. from directly or indirectly commencing construction of, contracting for or launching its own CDMA network in the Strategic Network Alliance service area until 18 months prior to termination of the agreement, the initial term of which ends on July 31, 2015, it would adversely affect our revenues and operating results if Sprint or another wireless provider were to do so. Should this occur, use of our networks would decrease and our roaming and/or 26 Table of Contents wholesale revenues would be adversely affected. Once a digital wireless system is built, there are only marginal costs to carrying an additional call, so a larger number of facility-based competitors in our service areas could stimulate significant price competition, as has occurred in many areas in the U.S., with a resulting reduction in our revenues and operating results. We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. The wireless telecommunications industry is experiencing significant technological change. We believe our continued success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate or adapt to technological changes and to offer, on a timely basis, services that meet customer demands. We cannot assure you that we will obtain access to new technology on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In an effort to keep pace with the industry, over the past three years we have deployed EV-DO at approximately 83% of our cell sites. EV-DO is third generation technology (3G) specifically designed to support faster wireless data rates. EV-DO supports peak data rates of 3.1 Mbps on the downlink and 1.8 Mbps on the reverse link. As we were deploying EV-DO, operators such as Verizon Wireless and Sprint were already detailing their plans to deploy next generation technology (fourth generation, or 4G). Verizon Wireless has selected LTE, a form of wireless broadband with the potential for significantly higher speeds than EV-DO, as its 4G technology choice and has aggressively started deploying this technology. Verizon Wireless recently announced plans to launch 25 to 30 major markets by the end of 2010 and will likely have substantial 4G coverage by the end of 2013. Clearwire, which Sprint has a substantial investment in, has commercially deployed Wi-Max as its 4G technology choice. Additionally, femtocells have been introduced by national carriers in recent years. Femtocells are mini-cell sites that are portable, require a broadband connection and can be located in a home or office, thus improving wireless in-building coverage. Continued deployment of next generation technology by the competition could cause the technology used on our network to become less competitive. We may not be able to respond to future changes and implement new technology on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. To the extent that we do not keep pace with technological advances, fail to offer technologies comparable to those of our competitors or fail to respond timely to changes in competitive factors in our industry, we could lose existing customers and experience a decline in revenues and net income. Each of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For us to keep pace with these technological changes and remain competitive, we must continue to make significant capital expenditures to our integrated communications system. Customer acceptance of the services that we offer will continually be affected by technology-based differences in our product and service offerings. In addition, some competitors have announced plans to develop a Wi-Fi or Wi-Max enabled handset. Such a handset would permit subscribers to communicate using voice and data services with their handset using VoIP technology in any area equipped with a wireless internet connection, or hot spot, potentially bypassing our network. The number of hot spots in the U.S. is growing rapidly, with some major cities and urban areas being covered entirely. The availability of VoIP or another alternative technology to our subscribers could greatly reduce the usage of our network, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. To accommodate next generation of applications and streaming video speeds significantly above that of EV-DO will require significant technological changes to our network and additional spectrum in certain areas. We cannot assure you that we could make these technological changes or gain access to this spectrum at a reasonable cost or at all. Failure to provide these services could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete with wireless carriers offering these new technologies. The loss of our licenses could adversely affect our ability to provide wireless services. Our wireless licenses are generally valid for ten years from the effective date of the license. Licensees may renew their licenses for additional ten-year periods by filing renewal applications with the FCC. Our wireless licenses expire in various years. The renewal applications are subject to FCC review and potentially public comment to ensure that the licensees meet their licensing requirements and comply with other applicable FCC mandates. We applied for and were granted renewal of 25 of our licenses between 2005 and 2009. We do not have any licenses due for renewal in the next 12 months. If we fail to file for renewal at the appropriate time or fail to meet any regulatory requirements for renewal, we could be denied a license renewal and, accordingly, our ability to provide or continue to provide service in that license area would be adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents Many of our licenses are subject to interim or final construction requirements. While the licensees have generally met “safe harbor” standards for ensuring such benchmarks are met, we have relied on, and will in the future rely on, “substantial service” thresholds for meeting build-out requirements. In such cases, there is no guarantee that the FCC will find our construction sufficient to meet the applicable construction requirement, in which case the FCC could terminate our license and our ability to continue to provide service in that license area would be adversely affected. Our failure to comply with regulatory mandates could adversely affect our ability to provide wireless services. The FCC regulates the licensing, operation, acquisition and sale of the licensed spectrum that is essential to our business. We must comply with regulatory requirements, such as Enhanced 911 (“E911”), and CALEA and the customer privacy mandates of the Customer Proprietary Network Information (“CPNI”) rules. Failure to comply with these and other regulatory requirements may have an adverse effect on our licenses or operations and could result in sanctions, fines or other penalties. On January 18, 2011, new FCC rules took effect that require NTELOS and other carriers using handset-based technologies for E-911 location purposes to eventually transmit, within 50 meters, the location of the caller in 67% of calls made in the carrier’s choice of either a county or a PSAP area and to transmit, within 150 meters, the location of the caller in 80% of the calls made in either such county or PSAP area. The carriers have two years from the effective date of the new rules to implement these requirements and carriers may exclude 15% of counties or PSAP heavily forested areas. These new rules reflect a general consensus between the wireless industry and the public safety community. The FCC, together with the FAA, also regulates tower marking and lighting. In addition, tower construction is affected by federal, state and local statutes addressing zoning, environmental protection and historic preservation. The FCC adopted significant changes to its rules governing historic preservation review of projects, which makes it more difficult and expensive to deploy antenna facilities. The FCC is also considering changes to its rules regarding environmental protection as related to tower construction, which, if adopted, could make it more difficult to deploy facilities. The licensing of additional spectrum by the FCC may adversely affect our ability to compete in providing wireless services. The FCC, from time to time, auctions additional radio spectrum that may be suitable for services that compete, directly or indirectly, with our wireless offerings. For example, in August and September of 2006, the FCC auctioned an additional 90 MHz of radio spectrum for “Advanced Wireless Services” that can be used for services like our wireless offerings. In early 2008, the FCC conducted an auction of additional wireless service spectrum in the 700 MHz range. We participated in the 2006 auction but decided not to participate in the 2008 auction. We may participate in other future auctions in order to obtain spectrum necessary to increase the capacity of our systems or to allow us to offer new services. The auction of new spectrum may adversely impact our business by creating new competitors, enhancing the ability of our existing competitors to offer services we cannot offer, requiring us to expend additional funds to acquire spectrum necessary for continued growth, or restricting our growth because we cannot acquire additional necessary spectrum. If we lose the right to install our equipment on wireless cell sites or are unable to renew expiring leases for wireless cell sites on favorable terms or at all, our business and operating results could be adversely impacted. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 92% of our base stations were installed on leased cell site facilities, with approximately 42% of the leased facilities installed on facilities owned by American Tower and Crown Communications. A large portion of these cell sites are leased from a small number of large cell site companies, including American Tower and Crown Communications, pursuant to master agreements that govern the general terms of our use of that company’s cell sites. If a master agreement with one of these cell site companies were to terminate, or if one of these cell site companies were unable to support our use of its cell sites, we would have to find new sites or rebuild the affected portion of our network. In addition, the concentration of our cell site leases with a limited number of cell site companies could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition if we are unable to renew our expiring leases with these cell site companies either on terms comparable to those we have today or at all. If any of the cell site leasing companies with which we do business were to experience severe financial difficulties, or file for bankruptcy protection, our ability to use cell sites leased from that company could be adversely affected. If a material number of cell sites were no longer available for our use, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. 28 Table of Contents We and our suppliers may be subject to claims of infringement regarding telecommunications technologies that are protected by patents and other intellectual property rights. In general, we do not manufacture any of the equipment or software used in our telecommunications businesses and we do not own any patents. Instead, we purchase the infrastructure equipment, handsets and software used in our business from third parties and we obtain licenses to use the associated intellectual property. Telecommunications technologies are protected by a wide variety of patents and other intellectual property rights. We and some of our suppliers and service providers may receive assertions and claims from third parties that the products or software utilized by us or our suppliers and service providers infringe on the patents or other intellectual property rights of these third parties. These claims could require us or an infringing supplier or service provider to cease certain activities or to cease selling the relevant products and services. The manufacturers and suppliers that provide us with the equipment and technology we use in our business may agree to indemnify us against possible infringement claims. However, we do not always have such indemnification protections in place and, even if we have such agreements in place, we may not be fully protected against all losses associated with infringement claims. In addition, the manufacturers and suppliers also may require us to indemnify them against infringement claims asserted against them with respect to equipment they sell to us. Whether or not infringement claims are valid or successful, such claims could also adversely affect our business by diverting management attention, involving us in costly and time-consuming litigation, requiring us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements (which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all), or requiring us to cease certain activities or to cease selling certain products and services to avoid claims of infringement. Wireline Telecommunications Our rural local telephone company subsidiaries face substantial competition from competitors that are less heavily regulated than we are, which could increase our expenses or force us to lower prices, causing our revenues and operating results to decline. As the rural local telephone companies for the western Virginia cities of Waynesboro and Covington, and portions of Alleghany, Augusta and Botetourt Counties, Virginia, we currently compete with a number of different providers, many of which are unregulated or less heavily regulated than we are. Our rural telephone company subsidiaries qualify as rural local telephone companies under the Telecommunications Act and are, therefore, exempt from many of the most burdensome obligations to facilitate the development of competition, such as the obligation to sell unbundled elements of our network to our competitors at “forward-looking” prices that the Telecommunications Act places on larger carriers. Nevertheless, our rural telephone company subsidiaries face significant competition, particularly from competitors that do not need to rely on access to our network to reach their customers. For example, wireless providers and cable companies continue to increase their market share and pose a significant competitive risk to our business. Comcast has introduced wireline digital voice services to its cable customers in Charlottesville and other Virginia markets, including in Waynesboro and Augusta County in May 2008, and it may offer these services in our Botetourt County service area in the future. Shenandoah Telecommunications Company purchased the cable property overlapping our RLEC territory in Clifton Forge and Covington, Virginia and began offering digital voice and data services to its customers in these markets during 2010. Cable companies and other VoIP providers are able to compete with our rural telephone company subsidiaries even though the “rural exemption” under the Telecommunications Act is in place. If our rural exemption were removed, CLECs could more easily enter our rural telephone company subsidiaries’ markets. Moreover, the regulatory environment governing wireline local operations has been, and we believe will likely continue to be, very liberal in its approach to promoting competition and network access. Consistent with the experience of other rural telephone companies, our rural telephone company subsidiaries have experienced a reduction in access lines caused by, among other things, wireless competition, cable competition and business customer migration from Centrex services to IP-based and other PBX services using fewer lines. As penetration rates of these technologies increase in our markets, our revenues could decline. Our rural telephone company subsidiaries experienced a net loss of approximately 2,800 access lines in the year ended December 31, 2010, or 7.4% of our access lines served at the end of 2009. A continued net loss of access lines would impact our revenues and operating results. 29 Table of Contents Our rural telephone company subsidiaries are subject to several regulatory regimes and consequently face substantial regulatory burdens and uncertainties. Many of our competitors are unregulated or less heavily regulated than we are. For example, VoIP technology is used to carry voice communications services over a broadband internet connection. The FCC has ruled that VoIP services are jurisdictionally interstate and that some VoIP arrangements (those not using the Public Switched Telephone Network) are not subject to regulation as telephone services. In 2006, the FCC expanded the base of USF contributions by extending universal service contribution obligations to providers of interconnected VoIP service. The United States Supreme Court upheld the FCC’s ruling that cable broadband internet services are not subject to common carrier telecommunications regulation. In addition, the Virginia State Corporation Commission, or SCC, imposes service quality obligations on our rural telephone company subsidiaries and requires us to adhere to prescribed service quality standards, but many of our competitors are not subject to these standards. These standards measure the performance of various aspects of our business. If we fail to meet these standards, the SCC may impose fines or penalties or take other actions that may impact our revenues or increase our costs. Regulatory developments at the FCC and the Virginia SCC could reduce revenues that our rural telephone company and Competitive Wireline subsidiaries receive from network access charges. For the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately $28 million of our rural telephone company subsidiaries’ revenues came from network access charges, which are paid to us by long distance carriers for originating and terminating calls in the areas we serve. These revenues are highly profitable for us. The amount of access charge revenues that we receive is based on rates set by the FCC for interstate long distance calls and the SCC for intrastate long distance calls. Such access rates are subject to change. Our federal access charges are periodically reset by the FCC and they are subject to a biennial reset (reduction) on July 1, 2011. The SCC could conduct an access reform proceeding or rate cases and earnings reviews, all of which could result in rate changes. Currently, VoIP providers generally do not pay us access charges for calls that originate or terminate on our network. Therefore, expanded use of VoIP technology could reduce the access or intercarrier revenues received by rural telephone companies like ours. The FCC has been considering the extent to which VoIP providers should be obligated to pay, or entitled to receive, access charges, but we cannot predict the timing or ultimate result of this proceeding. If VoIP providers continue not to pay access charges to us, our revenues and operating results could be adversely affected to the extent that users substitute VoIP calls for traditional wireline communications. Regulatory developments at the FCC could reduce revenues that our rural telephone company subsidiaries and our wireless subsidiaries receive from the Federal Universal Service Fund or other fund allocations. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we received approximately $5.1 million in payments from the federal Universal Service Fund in connection with our rural telephone company subsidiaries’ operations. Additionally, we received approximately $2.9 million (net) from other NECA pool distributions. The FCC is examining its Universal Service Fund rules and may change the amount of Universal Service Fund support available to carriers. The FCC may change its rules and reduce the amount of funding ultimately available to our rural telephone company subsidiaries as noted above. There can be no assurance that we will continue to receive the current level of Universal Service Fund revenues in the future. Loss of Universal Service Fund revenues could adversely affect our operating results. NTELOS’s wireless operations receive funding from the federal USF in Virginia, West Virginia, and Kentucky. On May 1, 2008, the FCC placed an interim cap on the amount of USF funding distributed in each state to competitive providers as a group, including CMRS carriers and CLECs. USF funding to competitive providers in each state is now capped at the level of support that such carriers as a group received in that state during March 2008. Our Competitive Wireline operations face substantial competition and uncertainty relating to their interconnection agreements with the ILEC networks covering the CLEC markets we serve. Our Competitive Wireline operations compete primarily with ILECs, including Verizon, Frontier and CenturyLink, and, to a lesser extent, other CLECs, including Level 3, Zayo, KDL (which is being acquired by Windstream), PAETEC and Cox and cable companies. We will continue to face competition from other current and future market entrants. We have interconnection agreements with the ILEC networks covering each market in which our Competitive Wireline serves. From time to time, we are required to negotiate amendments to, extensions of, or replacements for these agreements. Additionally, we may be required to negotiate new interconnection agreements in order to enter 30 Table of Contents new markets in the future. We may not be able to successfully negotiate amendments to existing agreements, negotiate new interconnection agreements, renew our existing interconnection agreements, opt in to new agreements or successfully arbitrate replacement agreements for interconnection on terms and conditions acceptable to us. Our inability to do so would adversely affect our existing operations and opportunities to expand our Competitive Wireline business in existing and new markets. As the FCC modifies, changes and implements rules related to unbundling of ILEC network elements and collocation of competitive facilities at ILEC central offices, we generally have to renegotiate our interconnection agreements to implement those new or modified rules. Our competitors have substantial business advantages over our Competitive Wireline operations, and we may not be able to compete successfully. Verizon and other large ILECs such as Frontier Communications Corporation (“Frontier”) and CenturyLink dominate the current market for business and consumer telecommunications services and have a virtual monopoly on telephone lines. These companies represent the dominant competition in much of our target service areas, and we expect this competition to intensify. The large ILECs have established brand names and reputations for high quality service in their service areas, possess sufficient capital to upgrade existing and deploy new equipment, own their telephone lines and can bundle digital data services with their existing analog voice services and other services, such as long-distance, wireless and video services, to achieve economies of scale in serving customers. Moreover, the large ILECs are aggressively implementing “win-back” programs to regain access line customers lost to competitors and use bundled services to assist in those programs. We pose a competitive risk to the large ILECs that serve our Competitive Wireline markets and, as both our competitors and our suppliers, they have no motivation to respond in a timely manner to our requests or to assist in the enhancement of the services we provide to our Competitive Wireline customers. We face substantial competition in our internet and data services business and face regulatory uncertainty, each of which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We currently offer our internet and data services in rural markets and face competition from other internet and data service providers, including cable companies. The internet industry is characterized by the absence of significant barriers to entry and rapid growth in internet usage among customers. As a result, we expect that our competition will increase from market entrants offering high-speed data services, including DSL, cable and wireless access. Our competition includes: • cable modem services offered by cable providers; • ILECs, such as Verizon, Frontier and CenturyLink in our Competitive Wireline territories; and • local, regional and national ISPs, both wireline and wireless, including Zayo and KDL. Many of our competitors have financial resources, corporate backing, customer bases, marketing programs and brand names that are greater than ours. Additionally, competitors may charge less than we do for internet services, causing us to reduce, or preventing us from raising, our fees. Our rights to the use of fiber that are part of our network may be affected by the ability to continue long term contracts and the financial stability of our Indefeasible Rights to Use fiber providers. Today approximately 89% of our approximately 5,800 route-mile network is under long term leases or Indefeasible Rights to Use (“IRU”) agreements that provide us access to fiber owned by other network providers. These agreements are generally long term and no such agreements are due to expire in 2011. Approximately 2% of the IRUs have terms that expire within the next five years. In these agreements, the network owner is responsible for network maintenance. If our network provider under IRU agreements have financial troubles, it could adversely affect our costs and ability to deliver service. We could also incur material expenses if we were required to relocate to alternative network assets. If we cannot obtain and maintain necessary rights-of-way for our network, our operations may be interrupted and we would likely face increased costs. We need to obtain and maintain the necessary rights-of-way for our network from governmental and quasi-governmental entities and third parties, such as railroads, utilities, state highway authorities, local governments and transit authorities. We may not be successful in obtaining and maintaining these rights-of-way or obtaining them on acceptable terms. Some agreements relating to rights-of-way may be short-term or revocable at will, and we cannot be certain that we will continue to have access to existing rights-of-way after the governing agreements are terminated or expire. If any of our right-of-way agreements were terminated or could not be renewed, we may be 31 Table of Contents forced to remove our network facilities from the affected areas, relocate or abandon our networks. This would interrupt our operations and force us to find alternative rights-of-way and make unexpected capital expenditures. In addition, our failure to maintain the necessary rights-of-way, franchises, easements, licenses and permits may result in an event of default under our credit agreement. General Matters We may require additional capital to respond to customer demand and to competition, and if we fail to raise the capital or fail to have continued access to the capital required to build out and operate our planned networks, we may experience a material adverse effect on our business. We require additional capital to build out and operate our wireless and wireline networks and for general working capital needs. Our aggregate capital expenditures for 2010 were $90.7 million. Because of our intensely competitive market, we may be required, including under the terms of the Strategic Network Alliance, to expand the technical requirements of our wireless or wireline network or to build out additional areas within our territories that could result in increased capital expenditures. Any such unplanned capital expenditures may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. If interest rates increase, our net income could be negatively affected. Our substantial debt exposes us to adverse changes in interest rates. We purchased a 3% London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) interest rate cap contract in December 2010 which prevents us from paying more than 6.75% on $320 million of our indebtedness. Therefore, this prevents us from paying more than $3.2 million of additional interest per year on $320 million of our senior credit facility should LIBOR rates go above 3%. However, on the remaining $426.1 million of our first lien term loan, we are directly exposed to changes in LIBOR. We cannot predict whether interest rates for long term debt will increase, and thus, we cannot assure you that our future cash interest expense will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. For more specific information related to our exposure to changes in interest rates, see “Part II, Item 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” We rely on a limited number of key suppliers and vendors for timely supply of equipment and services relating to our network infrastructure. If these suppliers or vendors experience problems or favor our competitors, we could fail to obtain sufficient quantities of the products and services we require to operate our businesses successfully. We depend on a limited number of suppliers and vendors for equipment and services relating to our network infrastructure. If these suppliers experience interruptions or other problems delivering these network components on a timely basis, our subscriber growth and operating results could suffer significantly. Our initial choice of a network infrastructure supplier can, where proprietary technology of the supplier is an integral component of the network, cause us effectively to be locked into one or a few suppliers for key network components. As a result, we have become reliant upon a limited number of network equipment manufacturers, including Alcatel-Lucent, Cisco Systems, Inc. and others. If alternative suppliers and vendors become necessary, we may not be able to obtain satisfactory and timely replacement supplies on economically attractive terms, or at all. A system failure could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could cause us to lose customers. To be successful, we must provide our customers reliable network service. Some of the risks to our network and infrastructure include: • physical damage to outside plant facilities; • power surges or outages; • software defects; • human error; • disruptions beyond our control, including disruptions caused by terrorist activities or severe weather; and • failures in operational support systems. Network disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and incur expenses. 32 Table of Contents We are dependent on third-party vendors for our information and billing systems. Any significant disruption in our relationship with these vendors could increase our cost and affect our operating efficiencies. Sophisticated information and billing systems are vital to our ability to monitor and control costs, bill customers, process customer orders, provide customer service and achieve operating efficiencies. We currently rely on internal systems and third-party vendors to provide all of our information and processing systems. Some of our billing, customer service and management information systems have been developed by third parties and may not perform as anticipated or the third parties may experience interruptions or other problems delivering these systems. In addition, our plans for developing and implementing our information and billing systems rely to some extent on the delivery of products and services by third-party vendors. Our right to use these systems is dependent upon license agreements with third-party vendors. Some of these agreements are cancelable by the vendor, and the cancellation or nonrenewable nature of these agreements could impair our ability to process customer information and/or bill our customers. Since we rely on third-party vendors to provide some of these services, any switch in vendors could be costly and affect operating efficiencies. If or when we lose a member or members of our senior management, our business may be adversely affected. The success of our business is largely dependent on our executive officers, as well as on our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified technical and management personnel. We believe that there is, and will continue to be, intense competition for qualified personnel in the telecommunications industry, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business. The unexpected loss of key personnel or the failure to attract additional personnel as required could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Unauthorized use of, or interference with, our network could disrupt service and increase our costs. We may incur costs associated with the unauthorized use of our network including administrative and capital costs associated with detecting, monitoring and reducing the incidence of fraud. Fraudulent use of our network may impact interconnection costs, capacity costs, administrative costs, fraud prevention costs and payments to other carriers for fraudulent roaming. Security breaches related to our physical facilities, computer networks, and informational databases may cause harm to our business and reputation and result in a loss of customers. Our physical facilities and information systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, theft, attacks by hackers, or similar disruptive problems. If hackers gain improper access to our databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify confidential personal information concerning our subscribers. In addition, misuse of our customer information could result in more substantial harms perpetrated by third parties. This could damage our business and reputation, and result in a loss of customers. We may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock in the future. We intend to continue to pay regular quarterly dividends on our common stock. Any decision to declare future dividends will be made at the discretion of the board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements, investment opportunities, financial condition, contractual restrictions, the impact of the Proposed Business Separation and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. We are a holding company that does not operate any business of our own. As a result, we are dependent on cash dividends and distributions and other transfers from our subsidiaries to make dividend payments or to make other distributions to our stockholders, including by means of a stock repurchase. Amounts that can be made available to us to pay cash dividends or repurchase stock are restricted by the NTELOS Inc. Credit Agreement. Our stock price has historically been volatile and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to fluctuations. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors. Events and factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly and annual operating results; • changes in financial estimates by us or changes in financial estimates or recommendations by any securities analysts who might cover our stock; 33 Table of Contents • conditions or trends in our industry or regulatory changes; • conditions, trends or changes in the securities marketplace, including trading volumes; • adverse changes in economic conditions; • changes in the market valuations of other companies operating in our industry; • technological innovations by us or our competitors; • our ability to successfully integrate recent acquisitions and realized the anticipated benefits; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, significant contracts or divestitures; • announcements of investigations, regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; • changes in general conditions in the United States and global economy, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events; • loss of one or more significant customers, including Sprint; • sales of large blocks of our common stock; • changes in accounting principles; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • sales of our common stock, including sales of our common stock by our directors, executive officers or affiliates. Quadrangle Capital Partners LLP and certain of its affiliates, collectively “Quadrangle,” continue to have significant influence over our business and could delay, deter or prevent a change of control, change in management or business combination that may not be beneficial to our stockholders and as a result, may depress the market price of our stock. As of December 31, 2010, Quadrangle beneficially owned 11,306,102 shares of our common stock, or approximately 27% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, three of the eight directors that serve on our board of directors are representatives or designees of Quadrangle. By virtue of such stock ownership and representation on the board of directors, including a representative of Quadrangle being Chairman of the Board of Directors, Quadrangle continues to have a significant influence over day-to-day corporate and management policies and all matters submitted to our stockholders, including the election of the directors, and to exercise significant control over our business, policies and affairs. Quadrangle’s interests as a stockholder may not always coincide with the interests of other stockholders. Additionally, such concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control, change in management or business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders and as a result, may depress the market price of our stock. Our stock price may decline due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the possibility of such sales, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. These sales may also make it more difficult for us to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities at a time and at a price we deem appropriate. We have granted the Quadrangle Entities the right to require us to register their shares of our common stock, representing approximately 11.3 million shares of our common stock. Accordingly, the number of shares subject to registration rights is substantial and the sale of these shares and any other shares with tag-along registration rights may have a negative impact on the market price for our common stock. Provisions in our charter documents and the General Corporation Law of Delaware could discourage potential acquisition proposals, could delay, deter or prevent a change in control and could limit the price certain investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Certain provisions of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, the state in which we are organized, and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may inhibit a change of control not approved by our board of directors or changes in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in the entrenchment of current management. These provisions include: • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations; 34 Table of Contents • limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend, alter or repeal our by-laws; • limitations on the removal of directors; • the inability of the stockholders to act by written consent; and • the authority of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine and additional shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 