Item 1A. Risk Factors. Statements in this Annual Report under the captions “Business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, as well as oral statements that may be made by us or by our officers, directors or employees acting on our behalf, that are not historical fact constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to be materially different from the historical results or from any results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth below. We do not intend to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events. We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objectives. We will not generate any revenues (other than interest income on the cash held in trust) until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. We cannot assure you as to when or if a business combination will occur. 10 Table of Contents If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate and distribute the trust account, our public stockholders will receive less than $6.00 per share upon distribution of the trust account and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation distribution will be less than $6.00 because of the expenses of our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking a business combination. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants, which will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a business combination. For a more complete discussion of the effects on our stockholders if we are unable to complete a business combination, see the section appearing elsewhere in this report entitled “Effecting a business combination — Liquidation if no business combination.” Under Delaware law, the requirements and restrictions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation may be amended, which could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders by such requirements and restrictions. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, sets forth certain requirements and restrictions that shall apply to us until the consummation of a business combination. Specifically, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, provides, among other things, that: • prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, we shall submit such business combination to our stockholders for approval; • we may consummate our initial business combination if: (i) approved by a majority of the shares of common stock issued in our initial public offering voted by our stockholders, and (ii) holders of shares of common stock issued in our initial public offering exercise their conversion rights with respect to less than 20% of the shares issued in our initial public offering and our private placement; • if our initial business combination is approved and consummated, our stockholders who hold shares of common stock issued in our initial public offering and who voted against the business combination and exercised their conversion rights will receive their pro rata share of the trust account; • if a business combination is not consummated or a letter of intent, an agreement in principle or a definitive agreement is not signed within the prescribed time periods, then we will be dissolved and distribute to our stockholders who hold shares of common stock issued in our initial public offering their pro rata share of the trust account; and • we may not consummate any other merger, capital stock exchange, stock purchase, asset acquisition or similar transaction other than a business combination with one or more operating businesses whose fair market value, either individually or collectively, is equal to at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such business combination. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation prohibits the amendment of the above-described provisions. However, the validity of provisions prohibiting amendment of the certificate of incorporation under Delaware law has not been settled. A court could conclude that the prohibition on amendment violates the stockholders’ implicit rights to amend the corporate charter. In that case, the above-described provisions would be amendable and any such amendment could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders. However, we view the foregoing provisions as obligations to our stockholders, and we will not take any actions to waive or amend any of these provisions. Our officers and directors will allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs, which could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. This could have a negative effect on our ability to consummate a business combination. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. All of our executive officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours to our affairs, although we expect Mr. Wilson to devote substantial time to our business during the process of conducting due diligence on a target company with whom we have signed a term sheet for a business combination conditioned on the successful conclusion of due diligence. If our executive officers’ or directors’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such 11 Table of Contents affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. For a complete discussion of the potential conflicts of interest that you should be aware of, see the section appearing elsewhere in this report entitled “Management — Conflicts of Interest.” We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. We may not be able to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, in which case we would be forced to liquidate. We must complete a business combination with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets (excluding deferred compensation of the underwriters held in trust) at the time of acquisition within 18 months after April 11, 2006 (or within 24 months after April 11, 2006 if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or a definitive agreement has been executed within 18 months after April 11, 2006 and the business combination relating thereto has not yet been consummated within 18-months after April 11, 2006). If we fail to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, we will be forced to liquidate our assets. We may not be able to find a suitable target business within the required time frame. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of a business combination. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per share liquidation price received by stockholders would be less than $5.87 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. If we liquidate before the completion of a business combination and distribute the proceeds held in trust to our public stockholders, Messrs. Wilson and Spickelmier have agreed to indemnify us against any claims by any vendor or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or products sold to us that would reduce the amount of the funds in the trust. However, we cannot assure you that Messrs. Wilson and Spickelmier will be able to satisfy those obligations. In addition, such third party claims may result in the per share conversion price received by the stockholders who vote against a business combination and elect to convert their shares into cash being less than approximately $5.87 per share. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business combination which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and could likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 50,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. There will be 9,441,665 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and the purchase option granted to Ferris, Baker Watts, Inc.), and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. We may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock, a combination of common and preferred stock, or debt securities, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: • may significantly dilute the equity interest of our current investors, including those who purchased equity interests in our initial public offering; • may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if the preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock; • could likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and most likely also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Similarly, if we issue debt securities, it could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination were insufficient to service our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contains covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant is breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; 12 Table of Contents • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding. The ability of our stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. At the time we seek stockholder approval of any business combination, we will offer each public stockholder the right to have such stockholder’s shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and completed. Accordingly, if a business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust fund for possible payment upon such conversion, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund the business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expected. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate a business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or the business combination may be more highly leveraged than desirable. As a result, we may not be able to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. Our current officers and directors may resign upon consummation of a business combination and we will have only limited ability to evaluate the management of the target business. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. Upon consummation of a business combination, the role of our key personnel in the target business cannot presently be ascertained. Although it is possible that some of our key personnel will remain associated in various capacities with the target business following a business combination, they are not currently obligated to do so. We anticipate that our current management will continue to serve as directors or consultants after any acquisition, which may result in a conflict of interest. For a complete discussion of our management’s business affiliations and the potential conflicts of interest that you should be aware of, see sections appearing elsewhere in this report entitled “Management — Directors and Officers” and “Management — Conflicts of Interest.” We will attempt to retain the management of the target business or we will recruit new management team members to join the target business. Although we intend to closely scrutinize the management of a prospective target business in connection with evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of management will prove to be correct. Our officers and directors may not have significant experience or knowledge of the industry of the target business. We cannot assure you that our officers and directors will have experience or sufficient knowledge relating to the industry of the target business to make an appropriate acquisition decision. Some of our officers and directors are currently, and may in the future become, affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Some of our officers and directors are currently, and may in the future become, affiliated with entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities to which they have fiduciary obligations. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. For a complete discussion of our management’s business affiliations and the potential conflicts of interest that you should be aware of, see the sections appearing elsewhere in this report entitled “Management — Directors and Officers” and “Management — Conflicts of Interest.” We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. 13 Table of Contents All of our officers and directors directly or indirectly own shares of our common stock that will not participate in liquidation distributions and therefore they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. All of our officers and directors directly or indirectly own stock in our company, but do not have a right with respect to those shares of common stock acquired by them prior to our initial public offering to receive distributions upon our liquidation. Our initial stockholders paid $.010563 per share for their 2,958,333 shares. Additionally, James P. Wilson and Keith D. Spickelmier have collectively purchased an aggregate of 333,334 units in a private placement immediately prior to our initial public offering but have waived their right to liquidation distributions with respect to the shares included in such units. The shares and warrants owned by our officers and directors will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our officers and directors may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination within the required time frame. Consequently, our officers’ and directors’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. It is probable that we will only complete one business combination, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business and a limited number of products or services. Our initial business combination must be with a business with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets (excluding deferred compensation of the underwriters held in trust) at the time of such acquisition. We intend to complete only a single business combination with one target business. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: • solely dependent upon the performance of a single business; or • dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. We will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. None of our officers or directors have ever been a principal of, or have ever been affiliated with, a company formed with a business purpose similar to ours. Our officers and directors have never served as officers or directors of a development stage public company with the business purpose of raising funds to acquire an operating business. Accordingly, you may not be able to adequately evaluate their ability to successfully consummate a business combination. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds, operating businesses and other financial buyers competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire with the net proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Further, the obligation that we have to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction, and our obligation to convert into cash the shares of common stock held by public stockholders in certain instances may reduce the resources available for a business combination. Additionally, our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. 14 Table of Contents Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate a business combination, it may be more difficult for us to do so. There are numerous similarly structured blank check companies that have completed initial public offerings in the United States with business plans similar to ours, and there are a number of additional offerings in the United States that are still in the registration process but have not completed their initial public offerings. While some of those companies have specific industries or geographies that they must complete a business combination in, a number of them may consummate a business combination in any industry or location they choose. We may therefore be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business plan similar to ours, which will, as a result, increase demand for privately-held companies to combine with companies structured similarly to ours. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete for an attractive business combination. Additionally, because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time periods. If we are unable to complete a suitable target business combination within such time periods, we will be forced to liquidate. If additional financing is required, we may be unable to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or because we become obligated to convert into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders are required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange. Additionally, in connection with our business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: • reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; • limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. 15 Table of Contents Our initial stockholders, including our officers and directors, control a substantial interest in us and this may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Upon consummation of our initial public offering and the private placement, our initial stockholders (including all of our officers and directors) collectively owned approximately 19.93% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock (including the purchase of 333,334 units in the private placement). In connection with the vote required for our initial business combination, all of our initial stockholders, including all of our officers and directors, have agreed to vote the shares of common stock owned by them immediately before our initial public offering, as well as any shares of common stock acquired in connection with or following our initial public offering, in accordance with the majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders. Target business may be affiliated with one or more of the initial stockholders. We may complete a business combination with a target company with which one or more of the initial stockholders is affiliated or has been affiliated, which may give rise to a conflict of interest. For example, Mr. Wilson is a managing partner at RSTW Partners. RSTW Partners has invested in middle market companies across the United States. We may complete a business combination with a target company in which RSTW Partners has invested, which may give rise to a conflict of interest because Mr. Wilson is affiliated with RSTW Partners. If the private placement was not conducted in compliance with applicable law, the existing stockholders may have the right to rescind their unit purchases. The rescission rights, if any, may require us to refund an aggregate of $2,000,004 to our existing stockholders, thereby reducing the amount in the trust account available to us to consummate a business combination, or, in the event we do not complete a business combination within the period prescribed, the amount available to our public stockholders upon our liquidation. Although we believe that we conducted the private placement in accordance with applicable law, there is a risk that the units, and shares and warrants underlying the units, should have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and applicable blue sky laws. Although the existing stockholders have waived their respective rights, if any, to rescind their unit purchases as a remedy to our failure to register these securities, their waiver may not be enforceable in light of the public policy underlying Federal and state securities laws. If the existing stockholders bring a claim against us and successfully assert rescission rights, we may be required to refund an aggregate of $2,000,004, plus interest, to them, thereby reducing the amount in the trust account available to us to consummate a business combination, or, in the event we do not complete a business combination within the period prescribed, the amount available to our public stockholders upon our liquidation. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination using our common stock as consideration. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of warrants and the outstanding option could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of any shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants and the option may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants and the option could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent the warrants and the option are exercised, our stockholders may experience dilution to their holdings. If our initial stockholders exercise their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our initial stockholders are entitled to demand that we register the resale of the 2,958,333 shares of common stock they acquired prior to our initial public offering. Furthermore, they are entitled to demand the registration of the securities underlying the 333,334 units they purchased in the private placement at any time after we announce that we have entered into a letter of intent, an agreement in principle or a definitive agreement in connection with a business combination. If our initial stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of common stock, then there will be an additional 3,291,667 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market. The 16 Table of Contents presence of this additional number of shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or may request a higher price for their securities as a result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our common stock. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, our activities may be restricted, including: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; and • restrictions on the issuance of securities, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance and disclosure requirements; and • complying with other rules and regulations. We do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may only be invested by the trust agent in “government securities” (within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940) with specific maturity dates. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we were deemed to be subject to the Act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense that we have not allotted for. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 